as the first continent worldwide with legislation on circular economy and the right to repair, we are making sustainability the norm in our market.
these examples show that in the past 30 years, the task of creating a common market has evolved from completing the market with its four freedoms – goods, services, capital and people – to using it more and more to achieve our common political goals: strategic autonomy; a new and unique european model of the digital world; high consumer standards; and, very importantly, the protection of our planet and the climate.
but citizens want high consumer protection standards, a healthy economy, environmental protection.
the climate crisis is looming.
and, on the other hand, european companies are not only facing high energy prices, but also fierce global competition to lead the future’s global green economy.
we cannot prioritise competitiveness over solving the climate crisis.
we need to massively accelerate climate measures and to finance the green transition, which in turn will help european companies.
in this regard, sustainable products have to be the norm on our single market.
if all product groups end up complying with minimum sustainability standards, we are making the sustainable choice a default one for the consumers, and this is what they are asking for.
and this is why the european commission needs to deliver on the promised right to repair initiative: to save money, to save energy, to protect our resources, to make our internal market a proper green market.
second, digitisation in the eu must be human—centred, based on our high democratic, data protection and sustainability standards.
already now, the single market’s high social and environmental, but also digital, standards spill over and shape globalisation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2020 the european union's exports of waste to third countries amounted to 32.7 million tonnes, or 16% of the world's trade in waste.
turkey is by far the largest destination for eu waste exports, receiving around 13,7 million tonnes in 2020. the majority of waste exported outside the eu consists of ferrous and non-ferrous scrap metal, as well as waste paper, plastic, textiles and glass.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in the same way as the waste from other industries.
the decarbonisation and energy saving measures already affecting the industry will, inter alia, lead to a significant increase in scrap requirements in the coming years: for every tonne of recycled scrap steel, a saving of 1,5 tonnes of co2 is achieved, and for scrap stainless steel, this saving is even higher, amounting to approximately 5 tonnes of co2.
i wonder whether it is still appropriate to call and classify waste these materials which have become so valuable and strategic to fuel a virtuous cycle in the steel industry.
in conclusion, it is therefore entirely acceptable to adopt stricter rules on waste shipments, without forgetting the importance of monitoring and anti-circumvention measures, in order not to weaken those rules, and this is precisely the meaning of the proposed amendments.
two main principles underpin this new regulation: the first is to prohibit the transport between member states of all waste destined for disposal.
we must not forget that in many places the disposal of waste is controlled by the criminal underworld.
i think i have to draw attention to the fact that some of our paper mills could be penalized if such recycling is not considered to be outside the scope of waste.
the problem of waste shipment may not be particularly attractive, but it is very necessary if we are to achieve our objectives: namely, a better circular economy, in which waste becomes a new resource, namely, shorter distances and more efficiency in waste treatment, by finally also realizing the internal market for waste and giving it the much-needed digitization boost, and finally, more safety in waste exports, because we propose that the declining plant must be independently certified.
it's the same with the ukraine war, it's the same with inflation, and it's the same with the energy crisis.
but what the eurobarometer also tells us is that 94% of people want to live, work, do business and eat in an environment that is sustainable.
so we need not lower environmental standards, but raise them.
it is also logical, commissioner, what you have said, and i believe it is also our role to show and provide data on this dependence on petrochemicals, energy-intensive industries and complex supply chains.
as regards energy prices, the honourable member is well aware of the disagreements that have arisen in the council, the long discussions that have taken place to take certain actions, to make certain commitments.
these are not easy decisions when it comes to energy pricing issues, but setting these maximum gas prices is a big step forward.
and the fact that you, mr mcallister, as a german, are even calling for the permanent abandonment of nord stream in this report and thereby jeopardizing germany's energy security should also make the last person in our country realize what the cdu is today: unelectable and a disgrace to our country.
but instead of taking a stand on these essential, fundamental issues, this report has been reinterpreted into a veritable potpourri of ideological nonsense: abortion, climate change, gender mania.
and indeed, it's extremely important that we secure the economic and industrial base, all the more so since we have the us inflation act, but it also has a big climate and a big social package.
the climate industry must replace the dirty fossil fuel industry if we are to save the climate and secure future jobs in europe.
it involves three things: the debt brake must not prevent european investment, europe must have easy ways to promote the climate industry in all regions and thirdly, high european standards for recyclability, environmental sustainability and workers.
but above all, industry needs affordable energy to succeed.
the eu's climate policy is to blame for this and no one else.
firstly, we want to underline the importance of green and sustainable investment – it was mentioned.
while the eib has increased its support for renewables and an energy efficiency project, it still provides significant funding for fossil fuel investments.
this is concerning, as the eu has committed to reach net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. mainstreaming of green investment and not spending money on anything that has a negative climate impact must remain a priority so that the eib becomes truly the eu’s climate bank.
the report also fails to provide sufficient information on social and environmental effects to the eib’s investments.
instead, there are calls to strengthen and implement gender mainstreaming, diversity, social inclusion - whatever that may be - and climate action, which only serve to weaken our economy, our national identity and the well-being of our families.
the report even calls for the eib to be transformed into a european climate bank, which is not only supposed to protect the eu but the whole world from climate change.
i am unfortunately certain that it will not be long before german and other european taxpayers will have to pay for the climate change in brazil or for alleged climate damage in pakistan.
we have now, and this has already been mentioned, actually had this raid on the reich citizens and we must note that in germany, according to the constitutional report, we have 21 000 people who are to be attributed to this environment.
there are still countless examples of our democratic system being attacked: an eu that does not want to solve the nord stream 2 attack because the perpetrator is probably the wrong person; a ruling party demonstrating alongside climate extremists throwing cobblestones and molotov cocktails at police officers, calling for a change in the socialist system; a migration policy that constantly leads to massive migrant violence; a corona policy that discriminated against millions of unvaccinated science deniers and the instrumentalization of state institutions to fight the opposition.
instead, the eu can and should bring sustainable peace to both countries, because it is our european value and interest to see a peaceful and prosperous caucasus.
we've discussed it several times here this week, and we can see that where people can contribute, where people can shape their work environment, democracy is strengthened.
it's beautifully worded, but basically it says: we're about to invest up to 300 billion euros in digital, climate, energy, transport, health, education and research, and in doing so, we're going to respect democratic values, high standards, accountability, transparency, partnerships at par with each other, which are also environmentally friendly and clean.
but i think that we as a parliament are also driven to look at how we can ensure that the money goes where it is needed - not just where it finds the most investment, a large, investment-friendly environment.
how do we make these projects sustainable?
mr president, the global gateway strategy is a priori in line with the sustainable development goals (sdgs).
however, it seems to focus on the exploitation of energy resources, such as hydrogen, from developing countries for export to the european union.
the european union has developed many projects in sub-saharan africa, but these projects do not cover the energy consumption of these countries.
how can this new strategy mitigate resilience to climate change in developing countries?
it should be in our own and global interest to extract and use the resources available in a more sustainable and socially responsible way.
you want to talk about the practice of sustainable investment funds today.
i want to go a little bit more fundamental and go a little bit further and talk about sustainable investments in general, because the most sustainable investment is in our families and in our christian values.
in these difficult times, an investment in our people and our economies would be an appropriate, necessary and sustainable investment.
dear colleagues, let's start investing in our lives, our future, our families and our culture - that would be a really good and sustainable investment.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
to older people and climate first!
our citizens, on the other hand, are getting poorer because of high energy prices and inflation.
i’m therefore a big fan of the recovery fund, i’m a fan especially also because it basically conditioned all spending on green and digital investment and made sure that not a single euro would go into projects that harm the environment.
the so-called climate stickers are terrorizing the working population in germany, blocking emergency services.
even the german government supports climate extremists, even though the majority of the population opposes this.
i also think we have to realize that there's not much you can do about really criminal energy, except equip law enforcement well.
however, my colleagues, i must also praise you very much because not only have you adopted, but even embraced my proposals for sustainability criteria, which shows that you truly have a revolution in space in mind.
these sustainability criteria are not only essential to continue engaging in space, but they are the first step for an international and for european space law and even lead towards a revision of international space legislation as a whole.
it is not a hindrance, but a path made clear, to make progress sustainable and bring good cheer.’ thank you very much.
the emissions from electric cars are only being shifted, for example, to coal-fired power stations, which will increasingly have to be used in the future not only for wind and/or hail, or which will be released in the production of traction batteries.
a single battery can move over 1 000 tonnes of waste and release up to 40 tonnes of co2 before the electric car has even driven a single kilometre, which is why the green socialist united front gentlemen here in the european parliament are well fed by the taxpayer telling citizens that walking and cycling are healthy.
we are finally deciding to end the climate-damaging combustion engine.
it's good for the climate, and it's good for the economy.
the world is on the brink of a climate-friendly e-mobility.
in the transport sector, we have always failed to meet the climate targets.
and they are trying again now to do nothing about climate change in the transport sector, and hopefully they will fail today.
because 2035 is good for climate change, but it's actually way too late.
for years now, emissions from transport have been rising, and in some cases are falling.
yet trucks account for almost a third of all co2 emissions and still block our roads.
otherwise - and we know this - we simply cannot achieve our climate targets.
we all have the goal of reaching the paris climate targets.
the incinerator can also be driven with alternative fuels in a climate-neutral way.
the burner is not per se climate damaging, but it is the question of how it is fuelled.
and so we have asked the commission to come up with a new proposal on how the incinerator can be used in the future with only climate-neutral alternative fuels.
repowereu is providing €20 billion of eu funds to help eu countries become more independent from russian energy imports.
the idea was to provide emergency aid for citizens and energy-intensive businesses.
this is not a step towards energy self-sufficiency.
finally, the global race for climate technology and net—zero industry is on.
it’s emission—free, it’s energy efficient.
clear rules for reducing, recycling and circular business models will not only protect our strategic autonomy, help mitigating the climate crisis, but also bring our companies to the forefront of this global competition.
if we allow procurement authorities to give preference to sustainable goods, we will create a huge market for our green industries.
this is the only sustainable solution, and i know there is a commitment to reach agreement by the end of this term, but i really would wish for speed in that work.
we need to agree on a sustainable, efficient and humane common migration and asylum policy.
but in order to reach a sustainable compromise on migration policy, we need to balance both elements: strong protection of our external borders and common rules for migration and asylum.
the russian aggression against ukraine, disrupted supply chains and the ongoing climate crisis are threats to our economy and to price stability.
with an unstable economic outlook, we cannot be sure that price stability and an economically stable environment for all citizens will be reached.
energy and food prices are still far too high, and our dependence on fossil fuels remains far too strong.
at the same time, we could observe a higher contribution of profits to inflation, for example, from energy companies like exxonmobil, shell and others.
we are facing exceptional supply shocks in the energy markets.
our high levels of dependence on russian imports and skyrocketing prices for fossil fuels are an important reminder how a climate-harming policy is also directly affecting price stability.
this is why we dedicated an entire section in the report to the ecb’s policies to actions against climate change.
we are welcoming the ecb climate roadmap and stress test you put forward last year.
we discussed it in the committee more than once, but we also think that we need to do more and we need to include climate— and environment—related risks through climate stress tests and also other tools.
climate change is affecting price stability, and ignoring this fact will lead to big problems in the future.
so we are calling the ecb to explain in a designated chapter of its report how its monetary policy is affecting the general economic policies of the union, including impacts on sustainable growth and employment or inequality.
euro area growth slowed, but didn’t stall, in the fourth quarter of 2020. the outcome was better than was initially expected as the adverse economic effects from russia’s unjustified war were partly buffered by improving supply conditions and fiscal support related to the energy crisis.
while confidence is rising and energy prices have fallen, we expect activity to remain weak in the near term.
the decrease compared with december was mainly due to a sharp drop in energy prices.
at the same time, the prior surge of energy prices and other input costs is still feeding through to consumer prices.
if, for instance, you exclude energy and food, inflation remains at 5.2% in january, the same as in december.
but a faster resolution of the energy shock would support growth.
for the eurosystem’s corporate bond purchases, reinvestments will be tilted more strongly towards issues with a better climate performance, supporting the gradual decarbonisation of our corporate bond holdings, in line with the goals of the paris agreement, without prejudice to our price stability objective.
but the future of eu capital markets hinges on the broader regulatory environment, which is in your hands.
the energy crisis led to a slowdown of economic activity, but our economies are proving to be a little bit more resilient than we might have expected.
and, therefore, the euro area member states should coordinate their fiscal policies to preserve debt sustainability and raise potential growth in a sustainable manner which would facilitate the task of monetary policy, bringing inflation back to 2%.
the commission has strongly advocated a better targeting of the fiscal measures to cushion the impact of high energy prices on vulnerable households and companies.
as energy prices have declined substantially, this becomes more relevant.
a credible framework will contribute to safeguarding fiscal sustainability and promoting sustainable growth through investment and reforms.
your report stresses the importance of addressing climate change.
we welcome the ecb’s efforts to incorporate climate change considerations in its monetary policy framework within its price stability mandate.
this complements the actions taken by the commission and member states to address climate change and promote green investments, including, for instance, through the recovery and resilience facility.
policy objectives enshrined in the repowereu regulation explicitly include aims that are directly relevant to the industrial transition to climate neutrality, including industrial decarbonisation; the development of renewable and fossil-free hydrogen; green skills; and the support to develop value chains and technologies linked to the green transition.
i have two remarks on this report where i perhaps disagree: one on proportionality and the other on climate change.
secondly, climate change: commissioner mcguinness mentioned that in paragraph 36 of the report, it notes that price stability and a stable macroeconomic environment are needed to encourage green investment and would help, among other things, to create the right conditions for the implementation of the paris agreement, and invites the ecb to assess to what extent climate change affects its ability to maintain price stability.
climate change will have implications for central bank balance sheets and policy objectives – that is true.
impacts of climate change and policy transitions have consequences for the primary objective of price stability, but of course the ecb must not help to create the right conditions for the implementation of the paris agreement.
it has to fulfil its task of price stability and thereby take into account climate change implications which might influence its policy objectives.
we know that interest rate increases are an important instrument of monetary policy, but they cannot lower energy prices or have a decisive effect on inflation in the short term.
it is irresponsible that the section of the ecb annual report 2022 on the ecb's climate policy has been watered down in this way by the epp group.
and one wonders what problem the epp has with climate protection, especially in relation to the preservation of prosperity in general, and how it actually wants to justify this to the people and industry in europe.
the ecb also knows that monetary stability and the fight against climate change go hand in hand, and that is why we need the introduction of differentiated interest rates for green investment by the ecb to drive the competitive transformation of the economy.
the ecb blames the war in ukraine and global causes such as rising energy, fertiliser and transport costs for the record food price inflation.
strangely, if higher energy, fertilizer and transportation costs are driving prices worldwide, why have food prices in the euro area risen almost four times as fast and in germany almost five times as fast as in the high-alpine country of switzerland, which has little agricultural land, or the semi-desert state of israel?
so, there are fairy tales being told here, because the main reasons for the record inflation are the ecb monetary policy because those who increase the money supply by 70% within a few years cannot avoid inflation in the long run and secondly the useless eu climate policy useless because the eu's influence on the world climate is asymptotically zero with a share of not even 8 or 9% of global emissions and thirdly the russia sanctions, which harm us more than russia.
and that is why we should invest our money in sectors of the future and not waste it on green fantasies.
the conflict in ukraine has led to a spike in energy and commodity prices.
the slight economic recovery in europe, in the uncertain economic environment we are experiencing, is likely to be halted by the solutions that the ecb is implementing.
the socioeconomic context, already heavily stressed by war and high energy prices, must be considered in the light of the new interest rate hike which the ecb intends to implement for march.
in relation to the comments around greening of the financial system, more investments in climate, there are many different views in this house – that’s the beauty of it.
but the truth is that climate change will impact asset values and therefore we do need to integrate this huge issue into our financial system.
let me then say a few things about climate change because clearly, as commissioner mcguinness has indicated, there are multiple views – it’s the beauty of this parliament – but i would like to address specifically what we are doing, which in no way undermines the focus, the concern that we have for our primary mandate, which is price stability.
our headline inflation, which includes all components including energy and food was, in january, 8.5% – likely to be revised a little bit upward, as i have indicated, once the german numbers are included by eurostat.
what is, on the other hand, not declining – because it is stable and has remained stable from december to january, having increased a little bit from november and december – is what we call core inflation, which is all components taken into account to measure the increase of prices, except energy and food.
i think it’s particularly notable that we have had an increase in what we call ‘non—energy industrial goods inflation’ – and that goes to the point made by some that inflation is currently essentially attributable to energy.
it is not only attributable to energy.
energy played a significant part, is continuing to play its part, and indirect energy costs are also fuelling what i have called the ‘non—energy industrial goods’, as it does with services, which have slightly begun to decline a little bit, moving from 4.4% to 4.2%.
it’s the decline of the high energy prices that continue to pass through to the rest of the economy – and we hope that this will move at as fast a path as it has passed through when energy prices were going up, but that remains to be seen.
fiscal energy, compensatory measures, temporarily dampened inflation, but – and i’ll come to that in a second – could also temporarily upward the pressure in the medium term as those measures expire.
this is our fight, this is our focus, and this is where we spend our energy but, as you know, within our mandate, we have also taken decisive steps to integrate climate change considerations into our monetary policy framework, financial stability monitoring and banking supervision.
executive authorities are the drivers of this bus, not the european central bank, not any central bank, but as part of our primary mandate, which is price stability, we have to take into account the risks posed by climate change, and under our secondary objectives – as long as it is without prejudice to the primary objective – we should certainly look into what can be achieved in order to respond to what you have determined as critically important economic policies going forward.
we have adjusted our monetary policy corporate bond holdings, and since october 2022 we have started to tilt the reinvestment towards issuers with better climate performance.
by the end of 2024 we will limit the share of assets issued by non-financial companies with a high carbon footprint in the collateral pool that we have.
by 2026, we will introduce climate—related disclosure requirements based on the csrd.
if you look at the supervision side of the ecb, we are working – and started the work back in 2020 with the banking sector to alert them to the process that was underway – on climate stress testing to assess the impact of climate risks on the eu economy, credit institutions and the european balance sheets.
some of you have expressed a concern and would like to continue to be informed of the progress of our climate action plan.
we will continue doing that, i am pleased to report that thanks to the energy of all members at the ecb, we are on schedule under the action plan and we are delivering like – as some of you said – no other central bank is delivering at the moment.
it’s because of the target of fiscal policy, which is precisely to address those that are most exposed, most vulnerable, and that take the hardest hit, particularly as a result of high energy prices.
when we say that it should be temporary, it’s in order to align with the variation in the prices of energy.
when we say that it should be tailored, it should be tailored in such a way that it actually continues to incentivise people to save energy.
i want to return to a debate in particular, because it seems to me to be almost more controversial than monetary policy and that is, in fact, the question: how do we really feel about climate change?
but in the analysis of what can be done about it, and what are also, in my view, obvious links with the field of energy prices, with the field of fossil dependence, which many of our member states still have on fossil energy, but in this case also on russian fossil energy, we seem to be somewhat different.
– madam president, honourable members, commissioner, the covid-19 pandemic, the russian invasion of ukraine and the energy crisis have shown how the eu is vulnerable to disorder and disruption to supply chains.
among other things, these crises have made evident that the eu’s access to critical raw materials is highly relevant to functioning, sustainable and resilient supply chains.
the green and digital transformation of the eu’s economy and our transition toward carbon neutrality can only be achieved if we master net-zero technologies.
to accomplish this, we have at our disposal a variety of elements to promote the eu’s position as a leader in net-zero technologies, such as our network for free trade agreements, sustainable investment facilitation agreements, or the green investment under the global gateway.
as europeans, we should not only facilitate the extraction, processing and recycling in third countries, but at the same time we should ensure high social and environment standards.
and we need to maintain a sustainable level playing field, both in europe and globally.
this includes strengthening waste rules, increased materials efficiency and use of european sustainability and technical standards.
we need, therefore, to combine an increase of domestic production where we can, including through recycling, with the diversification of sources of supply through reinforced international engagement, in full respect of highest environmental, social and governance standards.
second, the act intends to strengthen the eu’s critical raw materials value chain, from mining to refining to processing, recycling and ensuring, as asked by this chamber, the high social and environmental standards.
third, we intend to promote circularity in the critical raw material value chain, including by removing critical raw materials from extractive waste.
in doing so, we need to help third countries to move up and develop local value chains in a sustainable way so as to ensure that partnerships become win-win and help to strengthen economic and political bonds.
the eu needs to continue developing more strategic partnerships with reliable partners to diversify our supply sources, but also to consider how to make more sustainable and resilient our relationships with all our major trading partners in this sector.
and, to this end, the act will be accompanied by a communication further detailing the eu integrated approach to ensure a secure and sustainable sourcing of critical raw materials with a specific focus on the external dimension.
on sustainability in particular, we need to ensure that the sourcing and investment in critical raw materials promote labour rights and environmental protection.
honourable members, when we talk about the green and digital transition, about technological sovereignty, we first need to talk about the supply of critical raw materials – its security, affordability and sustainability.
secondly, we have set ambitious targets for the digital and renewable transformation of our economy, our industry, our mobility and our energy production.
raw materials are essential for the transition to a climate-neutral society.
and yet it must be said clearly: there is a big question mark in classifying mining as sustainable per se, and we have to face that.
we need a green raw materials strategy with high environmental, social and human rights standards.
they are critical for a sustainable economy, for jobs and for prosperity in europe in the future.
after all, it has obviously been understood that the availability of fertilisers is somehow linked to food security, which still does not stop the commission from continuing to say that agriculture is bad for the climate.
farmers are not even allowed to use carbon sequestration as a new business model in a regulation instead of food production, for which they are then rewarded in a results-oriented way by voguing food companies and authorities.
the debate is about the petty agricultural reserve of eur 450 million, while at the same time a generous eur 7.7 billion is being distributed to third countries - african, caribbean and pacific countries, among others - and talk of green energy for the fertiliser industry.
i'm confused and just on the side: inflationary energy prices and thus fertilizer prices are simply the consequences of your blinded, ideologically dangerous climate policy.
the fire brigade is by nature operating in areas where it is constantly breaking the rules: it runs red lights, it goes to what is its workplace, areas where the fine dust pollution is so immense that the trade union would go up the walls, etc.
the cheapest energy is the one we do not use.
never has this been more true than in modern times, when far too many people have had to choose between warm homes and warm meals because of russia's war of aggression and the associated energy crisis that has multiplied their heating bills.
so it's not just our climate goals that require rapid action.
that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we need these guidelines for better energy performance in buildings.
the proposal on energy efficiency in buildings proves that there is no escape from the ideas of the brussels world-improvers.
so now the home, the last refuge from gender and climate mania, must believe in it.
in order to enable the eu to achieve its climate-totalitarian goals, forced remediation is now being introduced.
we live in times of rising housing prices, expanding energy costs, skills shortages and inflation.
recently, the emissions trading system has been extended to buildings.
this energy efficiency directive will make housing even more expensive and will overburden many homeowners and households.
if these plans are to be implemented, 58% of german residential properties would have to be renovated by 2033 to achieve an energy class of at least d. by the way, 46 percent of the owners in germany do not know what energy class their building has.
although in germany a total of eur 496 billion was invested in energy-efficient building renovation from 2010 to 2018, this has had little impact.
only seven years until we have to reduce our emissions by at least 55% in all sectors, as we have committed ourselves to do, both legally and internationally.
it is the only way to achieve our climate target of 57%.
and together with the repowereu package for energy independence from russia, there is even up to 60%.
so we've really shown here that with collaboration and diligence, we can actually exceed our own climate goals.
the constant talk of a climate policy open to technology is, above all, about one thing: the adherence to a fossil economic model promoted by massive subsidies.
the fight against the burning of fossil fuels and other eu climate change instruments is precisely protecting these fossil interests, not the interests of consumers.
they want to let the market regulate, which has such an impressive track record of doing something about the climate crisis.
the 'fit for 55' package is a huge step towards climate neutrality by 2050. it shows what is possible when we have the political will.
if we want to ensure that all people in europe have a secure, climate-neutral future, we must not block now, but roll up our sleeves and ensure that future-oriented technologies and social participation are available to all people.
we have made a promise to our voters, to our children, to the next generation, to contain the climate crisis, to meet the climate goals and the paris agreement.
if they vote against the fuel-free, the climate-friendly transport, they vote against the climate targets.
if they vote against home renovation, they vote against climate targets.
we need to take advantage of the boom in the climate industry.
the proposal is weak - unfortunately - as is the whole of digital policy in terms of climate protection.
but we would also like to see you more active in your policy towards solving internal problems, including lithuania's, such as huge inflation, rising food and energy prices, bank interest rates, when it becomes difficult for individual families to survive.
secondly, we are also interdependent in our energy supply.
germany it has already begun it would have been wise in recent years to follow the urgent appeals from estonia, latvia and above all lithuania and from polish colleagues in energy policy.
today, as a german member of parliament, i can say the same thing about defence, energy and above all, mr president, about the clear orientation you have presented here.
we are faced with important steps which we can only take together as a european response: defence, energy, the environment, the environment, the environment.
the eu, unlike the us, has not recovered from the coronavirus crisis, partly because it is more affected by rising energy and food prices than anyone else because of its foolish climate policy.
it seems very difficult for some to imagine that the economy is not in a vacuum, but rather is affected by social and environmental crises.
a good example of this is the delayed energy transition.
when dictators and autocrats turn their taps, fossil energy becomes scarce and expensive, while renewables were cheaper than ever.
we must make visible the impact of ambitious environmental and climate policies on european economic policy.
we are talking about energy security, and we see that with the current legislation, the electricity market design and the red, it will be in place in two years, and that leads to investors basically now waiting for two years for the more beneficial setting.
there is the idea of a renewable energy booster, a european-wide tender of 120 gigawatt – 60 gigawatt solar, 60 gigawatt wind – and it could also help to bridge the gap between the 40% renewable target from the council in the renewable energy trilogue, and the 45% of you and of us the parliament.
so what do you say about such a renewable booster?
high energy prices have hit the people of moldova hard and that discontent is more than relatable.
it fell prey to climate hysteria.
but we also need sustainable social concepts.
i think it is time, ladies and gentlemen, that we finally develop a different, sustainable concept of european competitiveness, which is not just cutting red tape, but also looking at good jobs - which is what the united states is doing - and that we combine the ecological and social aspects.
yesterday we decided to force energy-efficient renovation of buildings, which makes housing unaffordable, older buildings virtually worthless and expropriation, i.e.
this is the result of the green deal, this is the result of the climate socialist planned economy that is being operated here.
as a result, we will finally be able to move from ad hoc resettlement schemes to a stable framework with greater sustainability and predictability for the protection for those who need.
the smugglers, they're evil people who, for the wrong reasons, with criminal energy, send people on a dangerous path, and people die as a result.
the pact cannot be a magic wand, but it can create sustainable structures and procedures and restore confidence among member states.
the 800 billion corona build-up fund has invited organized fraud in the supply and billing of defective protective masks, self-tests, vaccine doses and medical equipment, in green investments, illegal waste disposal and migrant smugglers.
such a climate makes their work and commitment very difficult.
this is why 25 years ago, the united nations adopted a groundbreaking declaration on human rights defenders recognising their important contribution to peace, to sustainable development and human rights, and requesting states to protect them and support them.
we have to speak more about the many different kinds in which you can defend human rights, about those who support women’s rights, about lgbti activists, about environmental defenders, as well as those who protect the rights of migrants and asylum seekers.
a bee-friendly agriculture for a healthy environment (2023/2550(rsp)).
they're damaging our environment.
the alliance is backed by more than 140 internationally networked organisations and political lobby groups, including many with organic labels with a hard economic orientation and corresponding interests or extinction rebellion with a radical left-wing extremist orientation or the german environmental aid with an infamous past as a warning association or the ngo pan germany, whose pesticide database was circulated by the rapporteur of the sur.
the government is responsible for a long series of scandals and for neglecting the real problems in our country, including the threat to biodiversity and the position of farmers and food security.
it is a balanced initiative that concerns the well-being of bees, biodiversity, farmers and the health of all of us.
biodiversity is complex.
the german and european economies have so far benefited from cheap russian energy and export successes, especially overseas.
the eu, under german-green deception, is making energy unaffordable and endangering our export economy and thus our livelihood.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
thus, arrogance and arrogance on the one hand, envy, resentment and strife on the other, will determine the future climate of the workplace.
the vaccine mandate alone was an unprecedented scientific denial, not to mention the climate judgment.
the epp group is calling for the following titles: commission statement on the unjustified interference by the commission in the chosen nature policy in member states and the impact of the proposed nature restoration law on food and energy security.
and this is precisely what the commission is currently putting at risk with its proposals in the eu nature package, with the nature restoration act and the regulation on the sustainable use of plant protection products.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr christophe hansen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the making available on the union market and export from the union of certain raw materials and products associated with deforestation and forest degradation and repealing regulation (eu) no 995/2010 (com (2021) 0706 c90430/2021 2021/0366 (cod)) (a9-0219/2022).
the vote on wednesday will mark a milestone in the fight against climate change and biodiversity loss.
this law will also help to deepen trade relations with countries that share our ecological values and ambitions.
and this is not only good for global biodiversity, but also for the european consumers who can be sure to buy deforestation—free products in the future.
this new law is benefiting not only biodiversity but also people and their rights.
it is a law to reach our common global goals, like stopping climate change and biodiversity loss.
that also makes it an important tool to help us reach the objectives of the kunming—montreal global biodiversity framework and the paris agreement on climate as well.
the new rules will demonstrate that the eu is ready to take the lead in the global struggle against climate change and biodiversity loss.
because until now, when you wanted to know about deforestation, you found no clarity, but a jungle of sustainability labels and many promises that didn't really provide clarity.
the commission is not the fit for 55 package goes straight to the heart of european climate policy and competitive industrial policy.
and the climate social fund is now to fight energy and mobility poverty in europe.
we now have a climate/social fund from 2026 totalling around eur 86.7 billion.
but the eu is now saying very clearly with the climate fund: the green deal has to be a social deal.
women are disproportionately affected by energy and transport poverty, especially single mothers, single women, women with disabilities or older women living alone.
we must fight energy and mobility poverty in europe with determination.
it is important that we strengthen emissions trading as a key market economy instrument in this green deal at this point, because that will ensure, ladies and gentlemen, that the co2 savings are made where they are most cost-effective.
as rapporteur on the transport committee for the eec in air transport, i am also particularly proud that we have managed to keep the saf allowances on the file, because that will ensure that the market will take up alternative aviation fuels much faster, and that will ensure that it will be even faster that we will be carbon neutral with flying.
but i also want to say, as a liberal democrat, that it is important that we do not lose sight of one thing in this package of legislation, namely that we need all the technological options if we want to achieve the climate goals.
all of this is what we need if we're going to meet the climate goals.
no, we have always been in favour of the market, but above all we are in favour of climate protection, and that requires markets and bids.
it needs a social backbone, and this climate social fund is unfortunately far too small for that.
but revenues must be returned directly to the population, for example through a european climate fund.
so climate action and justice go together.
because emissions trading is a big step forward for climate protection.
and we're making pollution so expensive now that it's just not worth it.
after germany's nuclear phase-out, a europe-wide phase-out of coal will follow in 2030. from 2040 onwards, there will be no new co2 pollution rights.
emissions trading is the very instrument that makes it clear that we have no more emissions despite nuclear phase-out.
so we've made a huge step forward in climate action.
and for citizens, it means more climate protection, more freedom and more freedom for future generations.
two and a half years ago, as rapporteur for the mrv regulation on co2 emissions from international shipping, i presented the position of parliament in this house, and even then the european parliament voted by a large majority to include shipping in the emissions trading scheme.
for the first time, the world's sixth largest greenhouse gas emitter, maritime shipping, is being included in climate action.
it needs clear rules on efficiency measures, and it needs climate-neutral fuels.
the greens are opposed to the production and consumption of energy, the basis of our civilization.
today is a first step with the climate social fund.
we need to work together on climate change and green industries for the future.
china is the world's largest emitter of greenhouse gases, and we can't ignore that.
competitiveness with the highest environmental and social standards, that must clearly be the approach in europe.
and we will look closely at critical sectors, sharpen our trade tools, and examine whether investments and exports are in line with europe's security and climate interests.
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, i have heard a lot of calls not only in this house, but also at home in germany, that we should not go forward with the ramp—up of renewable energy while we don’t have enough storage for two weeks of no wind and no sun.
the first problem we will run into when ramping up renewable energy is not the famous dunkelflaute of those two weeks, but the first challenge will be how to sensibly use the renewable energy which is oversupplying at times of little demand.
there we have a plethora of possibilities already today, with the simplest one being a simple heating rod inside your warm water boiler and the more sophisticated ones being energy storage as electricity or as heat.
but please don’t let yourselves be fooled that we have to wait for sufficient storage units – which are already coming online, by the way – in order to have grid balancing, in order to wait for more renewable energy in germany and in europe overall.
the fact is that the eu cannot fight the climate crisis with this budget.
instead of budget cuts, we need an eu budget for people and the climate.
climate programmes need to be increased, not cut.
the highest energy prices in the world, mass migration costing us another 100 billion euros a year, insects and worms in food, a green deal designed to de-industrialise us like the morgenthau plan, and a foreign policy that could soon plunge us into a european war.
and the eu should put a much stronger emphasis on supporting these civil society actors, especially the young generation in iraq, by supporting their training, giving them new opportunities to build a better homeland and to address the challenges the climate crisis poses on their country.
by counting the cost of putin’s aggression against ukraine for the european economy, we also count the cost of our great illusion that by avoiding the necessary increase in defence expenditure, we can save money in a dangerous geopolitical environment.
what a mistake it proved to be to make ourselves more dependent on russian energy by shutting down large parts of the european nuclear power sector.
the weaknesses of the current pfas chemicals regulation became apparent last year when the forever pollution project disclosed more than 17 000 old pfas loads in the eu.
more than 50 years ago, the manufacturer dupont discovered that its products per- and polyfluorinated alkylated substances, pfas were highly harmful to health and the environment.
here, as on other points for which i do not have time to speak - uvcb, polymers, sanctions, energy-efficient manufacturing, speed of procedures - there is an urgent need for action.
i hereby call on the commission to finally deliver on its repeated promise under the chemicals strategy in the plenary session of commissioner šefčovič, at the hearing in the environment committee of director ciobanu-dordea and to present the reach revision proposal by june at the latest.
madam president, when we signed up to the green deal as a european parliament, we signed up to climate neutrality, a fully circular economy and a zero-pollution economy.
we want a toxic-free environment and that is also a key part of the green deal that europe needs to deliver on.
the chemicals strategy for sustainability is very clear.
and even if the environment is not compelling enough for you, the industry now is also asking to move fast: if you come beyond june, then there will be a very long, insecure period for industry because then it will not be dealt by this parliament.
and that should be a concern for other dgs than maybe only the dgs that also are working on the environment, although that should be our concern as well.
in ireland, the law governing sustainable use of pesticides, which enacts the sustainable use of pesticides directive, makes it clear that pesticides should not be used in areas used by the general public or vulnerable groups, or environmentally sensitive areas.
data on pesticide use is gathered inconsistently between local authorities, with some councils not keeping records required by the eu sustainable use of pesticides directive.
does my raincoat belong in the special waste now?
if there is concern that a substance is harmful to health, the problem cannot be dismissed - especially if neither humans nor the environment can break down these substances.
so we are putting ourselves and our environment at risk for generations to come.
for me, this means very clearly that for the sake of our health, for the sake of our children, for the sake of our environment, we cannot be exposed to these substances like pfas.
industry must show where they are unavoidable in processes, how they do not come into contact with people and the environment and what their end-of-life determination is.
we are now faced with the great generational pollution that we are fighting against all over europe, and that battle has been my political career for almost 50 years.
it is time to take responsibility for the environment and nature of our children and grandchildren.
madam president, we share the ambition of having an environment free of toxic substances.
we also need, of course, to forge partnerships to ensure that we have a healthier and healthier environment and water, of course, but we need the budget for that too.
i have to say, madam president, chemicals of all ages are one of the greatest threats to our health and to our environment of our time.
they make us sick, they pollute our environment, and then they reduce fertility.
these pollutants are contributing to the obesity pandemic, the significant increase in environmental cancers and the fertility problems we face across europe.
so on the timing of the revision of reach, we know this revision is urgent and we’ve heard it from the environment committee and now today in this debate.
if i point out the contamination of soils and drinking water, we are working to protect health and the environment, including rules under the industrial emissions directive, setting limit values through water and food legislation and restrictions under eu chemicals legislation.
as i have said, we do need to update reach to increase market incentives also for chemicals that are safe and sustainable by design, with benefits for health and the environment, for the economy and jobs.
the commission will facilitate a dialogue and knowledge exchange on risk assessment of soil contaminants, and i think we all agree that we owe this to citizens and the environment.
– madam president, honourable members and commissioner, this debate has shown that we all agree that pfas are some of the most problematic substances of our time, and these toxic substances are a threat to humans, animals and the environment.
and for this reason, i believe that it is very positive that we are taking steps towards a sustainable chemical policy with the revised reach and other files that were raised here today, and this is of utmost importance to protect our health and the environment.
we need to work together to avoid soil pollution and regenerate already polluted soil.
environmental protection is the protection of the competitiveness of the european economy.
we must protect the environment not only through laws, but also through individual habits and society.
some countries want to impose restrictions, but they won't take effect until 2026. since 75% more pfas are released into the environment each year, an urgent review of the chemicals regulation is needed.
finally, the environmental impact aspect has been a very controversial subject for our negotiating team.
instead, publishers must comply with strict disclosure requirements on energy consumption and environmental impact.
what we believe is that having a regulatory framework on crypto assets allows the industry to evolve in a more cohesive and safer environment.
and on the issue of environmental impacts, the co-legislators, in my view, agreed on a very balanced position to address this issue by robust disclosure requirements.
are we taking environmental aspects into account?
by the way, the pompous name of this icct is probably meant to hide the fact that it is just one of the countless climate-action ngos that are happy to deliver on political orders and have already been beaten up for unscientific claims.
i have to say, madam president, so, frankly, i am already afraid of an eu commission that presumes to quickly declare a health emergency only within the eu, for example, because of beware, i quote literally from a newly entered regulation climate-related hazards .
i think we all have a hard time imagining what it must be like to live in fear of death, and how brave it is to stand up for equal rights in that environment.
shouldn't the ipcc be talking about adaptation to climate change in particular, rather than just showing this obsession with atmospheric co2?
and why should reducing co2 emissions be synonymous with getting off fossil fuels?
and that doesn't apply to climate as a 30-year average of weather anymore?
and the sun is one of many climate factors.
because the computer models of the ipcc -- a political organization that was created to prove man-made climate change -- have a lot of prophetic crystal ball.
because they're working on the garbage in, garbage out principle, so they're only as smart as the programmer and spitting, fed the data from the co2 end-time molecule, out the desired climate catastrophes.
but they fail regularly - and exceptionally very reliably - to calculate the climate of yesterday and the day before, as does every decent forecaster.
you may have seen this graph in the world climate report.
the un secretary-general has said that rich countries must become climate neutral by 2040. we in the european parliament, we are deciding this year, we are talking this year about our climate target for 2040. ladies and gentlemen, what kind of world do you want to live in?
let us choose a climate-neutral world, a world where we can guarantee freedom for ourselves and our children.
because the first finding of the report, which must never become routine, is that our current climate action is not enough and the climate damage is already being felt.
but the ipcc report also gives us a guide to survival, because it's clear that we already have the technologies and the knowledge: solar and wind energy, energy efficiency, a different food system -- all of these can make big contributions at low cost.
and it's also a message to all those who would rather light a fog candle in this debate right now -- of unavailable fuels, or nuclear revivals that are far too expensive -- than work in the here and now to see that we can also avert the climate crisis with available innovation.
on the contrary, the ipcc report highlights the high cost of nuclear energy and its small contribution to combating the climate crisis.
why do we not use the power of the eu for the common agricultural policy to have an agriculture policy that is protecting the climate and the biodiversity?
why do we not use the power of the eu with the biggest single market to use trading agreements for the better, for the climate and for biodiversity?
the question of the climate change is the question of how a society will live in future.
the question of biodiversity is if we will live in future, and the current generation in power is just doing everything to ignore the point, and we as a future generation get anxiety of it and have a fear of the future.
the economic, covid, energy, inflation and climate crises have in fact delayed the less developed regions and in a so-called transition phase, not to mention the mountainous, insular, sparsely populated and rural territories.
we can now increase investment in training, because in many places there is hardly anyone left who can install the new environmental technology.
and last but not least, it is important for us that we can now regulate energy prices by exempting subsidies.
the european union has done a lot in the areas of digitalisation, social, environment and climate change.
but it is also our communities that are facing a host of challenges: inflation, the aftermath of the coronavirus pandemic, rising construction and energy costs, skills shortages and the current refugee movements.
how much can the state, how much can our local communities finance, be it for a local outdoor pool or for the sustainability of regional businesses?
the development of renewable energy, better and faster european rail links, a socially balanced restructuring of our industries.
if we want to achieve europe's climate goals, we need to invest almost 500 billion euros a year in green transition.
it is not a generation-friendly fiscal policy when strict budgetary rules are driving europe to wear and tear and the climate crisis is destroying our planet.
your world climate rescue was called the world's stupidest energy policy by the wall street journal, because with a share of 1.3 percent of global co2 emissions, germany cannot save the climate, but you are ruining the german middle class and our citizens with unaffordable electricity, heating costs and forced renovation.
and finally, your policy towards russia: together with merkel, you led germany to an energy dependence on russia, which is, after all, cheap.
i have to say, madam president, the brutal war of aggression by russia against ukraine, the chinese aggression against taiwan, the effects of climate change - mr weber, we are in a time of geopolitical turmoil.
we must remain open to technology, including electric fuels, mrs reintke, and only then will we be able to achieve a climate-neutral europe.
let us support research and development, for example fusion energy for cheap co2-free electricity in europe.
climate change is in full swing.
the financial sustainability is at risk.
yet it clearly underlines successes and what needs to be undertaken in the areas of democracy, fight against corruption, organised crime, energy and the environment.
so, i will only outline three major processes: the rule of law, freedom of the media, eu—led dialogue and the energy transition.
finally, environmental protection must become a priority for kosovo.
without the full integration of the western balkans in our green and energy transition plans, our co2 goals won’t be accomplished.
now we should work on the implementation of the long—awaited energy strategy, which should lead to the decarbonisation of kosovo’s energy.
consumers are increasingly focusing on sustainability.
not only is this expensive and annoying to consumers, it's also really bad for the climate and consumes a lot of resources.
the production of e-waste can no longer be a business model.
they should be banned so that consumers can make sustainable choices at the counter.
i therefore believe that euro 7 makes sense only if renewable fuels are enshrined in the law.
let's make sure it's something climate neutral that's burned.
unfortunately, renewable fuels are not part of this draft law.
what a waste of opportunity.
a future global steel and aluminium agreement should cover overcapacity and climate-related goals.
this means emissions intensity thresholds for steel and aluminium production and consumption, or a common understanding on what can be permissible: green industrial subsidies that do not contribute to overcapacity.
my vision is to have a transatlantic climate alliance as a base for quick transatlantic, rational decisions pushing green economy and the fight against climate change, what is desperately needed.
we need to see the promised agreement on sustainable steel and aluminium, and we need to see an agreement on critical minerals to ensure fair competition for european companies.
sustainable investment in children will be key.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the un climate change conference 2023 in dubai, united arab emirates (cop28) (2023/2636(rsp)).
cop28 marks a crucial moment, a truly crucial moment for global climate action.
we can still offer these next generations a 1.5-degree future, but it does require that the entire world does take action to reduce emissions and prepare for the impacts of climate change.
in dubai, parties will have to advance on all elements of the global climate agenda and that means mitigation, adaptation and means of implementation.
and this includes climate finance and, of course, loss and damage.
and a recent joint statement on climate action from the us and china is another welcome development.
and in each of these meetings i have stressed the need, the absolute need, to raise climate ambition.
and one thing is clear: all countries should take meaningful action to cut emissions, particularly the world’s largest emitters.
the eu has been doing just that, following the adoption of nearly all fit for 55 proposals, we have updated our ndc to provide transparency on how we plan to continue to reduce emissions.
and i have noticed in every single meeting that i had these past weeks, what we do at home is the foundation of our climate diplomacy abroad.
so i want to thank again this house and the leaders in this house for their work on our climate and energy legislation.
our model shows that full implementation of our policies will bring an emission reduction of around 57% by 2030. and it puts europe firmly on track to reach climate neutrality by 2050. to say the same about the entire world, we need to peak fossil fuels consumption this decade and phase out unabated fossil fuels well ahead of 2050. and we also need to stop new coal-based power capacity, triple renewable energy and double the rate of energy efficiency by 2030. and frankly speaking, we must quickly decarbonise the global power system.
and it is also in line with the global energy pledge that we jointly pursue with the cop28 presidency.
ladies and gentlemen, as the climate crisis intensifies, preparing for its impact will become, unfortunately, more and more important.
and through the global goal on adaptation, we must strengthen adaptation planning, must track progress and mainstream climate resilience into every investment decision.
and this can include phasing out fossil fuel subsidies that do not address energy poverty or the just transition, promoting the use of domestic carbon pricing and agreeing international crediting rules that truly help transform financing for climate action.
and in this context we have invited different countries to join a call to action for paris-aligned carbon markets.
solidarity is another key component of our climate finance discussions.
this needs to happen in a context where we can all feel confident that, in parallel, we will see deep emissions reductions this decade.
that might have made sense in 1992. climate action is truly a global responsibility.
and climate change is a threat that we all face.
so every country – literally every country – must do its utmost to eliminate its emissions and to defend its citizens and its future generations from the impacts of climate change.
the world is on a course toward catastrophic temperature increases, and that's why, of course, this is an incredibly important climate change summit that we're looking at.
this climate summit is incredibly important because this is where we are discussing how we will achieve the goals of the paris agreement.
it is extremely important that we triple the share of renewable energy, that we double the amount of energy efficiency, and that we phase out fossil fuels.
we have much to be proud of on the european side, but it is extremely important that we, on the european side, put ourselves in the spotlight now to convince the chinese, the indians, the americans to follow up on this, so that we can achieve the objectives of the paris agreement and to fight against climate change that threatens the future of the planet.
– madam president, today’s emissions gap report is indicating again that the world is on track, with the current pledges that we have seen, towards a warming of 2.5 to 2.9 degrees, which is double what we have promised the world.
therefore, we need binding decisions on climate action, tripling renewables, doubling energy and efficiency, but most importantly, also the end of fossils – and there, to be very honest, dear commissioner, again you squeeze in the word ‘unabated’ there.
i know that the environment council has come to a very broad definition on how they want to tackle it but i think it is important that we hear from you where you stand on the end of fossil fuels.
we also need the end of fossil subsidies by 2025. we need the end of environmental harmful subsidies by 2027. that’s all in the resolution.
we need to fight climate change globally.
that is why these climate conferences, however tedious and arduous, are extremely important.
the european union has emissions per head of 6.25 tonnes.
china now has higher per capita emissions not only than the eu as a whole, but even higher per capita emissions than germany and poland.
it must also be confirmed at the climate conference.
last week, the oecd noted that developed countries had transferred usd 89 billion to developing countries in climate finance in 2021, and that we are on track to achieve usd 100 billion by the end of this year.
however, our climate is reaching a tipping point and so is our democracy.
in an effort to pacify the far right, many of our moderate politicians are watering down their climate policies.
defeating climate change must be the priority of all politicians across the spectrum.
we need a true coalition for climate.
we're going to the cop and we have something: the eu has managed to agree on the methane regulation; we will substantially reduce methane emissions from the energy sector, and we will -- this is particularly important: we will also expand this to our imports.
i would like to recall the un environment programme report from last year, which said that if we can reduce methane emissions by 50 percent by 2030, we will save ourselves 0.3 degrees celsius of global warming.
that's why methane emissions are so important.
un climate conferences often focus on ambitious countries doing more, while climate promoters like china and india have no claims.
asia's emissions are increasing and the eu is weakening.
it's not helping the climate.
it is time we asked ourselves the question that no one has dared to ask at the climate conference yet.
what effect and costs has the un climate decision had in practice?
it's economic calculations that help the climate, not moral guidelines for the west.
how can you ask french and european citizens for ever greater efforts to combat climate change, when giant, hyper polluting container ships continue to cross the oceans and maritime traffic continues to increase?
why do climate conferences ignore the harmful consequences of free trade agreements that facilitate and encourage these polluting practices?
the first environmental measure would be a coordinated effort for localism, i.e.
cop 28 must be a change of direction and must recognise free trade as a polluting and now obsolete model and place localism at the heart of europe's environmental policy.
the demands on the responses to the environmental problems we face are high.
we will be demanding a change of paradigm, opposing market measures to a necessary and fairer regulatory approach that directly affects emissions, starting from a common but differentiated responsibility.
we will be advocating collective public transport, the restoration of public control over strategic sectors such as energy, the fair regulation of international trade, and calling for peace and cooperation between peoples.
the urgency of policy change at the environmental level is inseparable from policy change at the social and economic level, which guarantees people the right to development and a better life.
madam president, commissioner, the world is once again holding a conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, this time in dubai, in a world full of geopolitical tensions and confrontations, and where multilateralism operates on climate as one of its last springs, of its last dimensions.
it's a meeting that's going to help us balance, especially the global balance sheet, where we're going to see that we're not doing enough, and what happens to climate change in a year where all the scientific indicators say it's accelerating.
it is time to show ambition, that europe is able to operate the loss and damage fund on which much of our relationship with the global south depends, to be ambitious, to triple the deployment of renewables by 2030 and at the same time to double energy efficiency.
if we want to stop the climate crisis, we need to keep the fossils in the ground.
so we need to talk now about the massive expansion of renewables and about climate damage and fair compensation.
every other day, a person is murdered who is fighting for more climate protection.
and at the same time, without the gulf states in the climate change team, we can't save this world, no matter how much we travel by train.
so let's use this cop to make the gulf states leaders in real climate protection.
for the ipcc, an additional 0.1°c of global warming is 100 million premature deaths.
in the face of climate change, we have a huge responsibility for ourselves and future generations.
we need an ecological fork and it needs to be fair.
justice is about creating global insurance coverage for climate change damage in resource-poor countries.
a strong mandate for international solidarity in the face of climate change.
it's the climate conference again, and this time we know that limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees, as set out in the paris agreement, will no longer be possible.
the report last week that the developed countries have finally reached their target of 100 billion euros for international climate finance is therefore a good one.
the recent sino-american agreement to expand renewable energy was also of particular importance.
renewable energy thus takes its place in the energy mix among the main contributors, making it increasingly affordable and practical.
let's give the rainforest countries, for example, their fair deal on international climate finance through the debt-for-nature exchange or payments for environmental services.
luxury villas, mega yachts, private jets the richest percentage of the world's population, according to oxfam, are responsible for as many greenhouse gases as the five billion people who make up the poorest two-thirds.
it feels a bit bizarre that this year's world climate conference is being held right there, led by the united arab emirates, which is already trying to push ahead with its agenda to extend the age of oil and gas massively and here we have to resist.
we need to talk not only about global climate policy, but about the question of justice behind it: what does the vast majority of people who cannot afford to buy out of the crisis, who are already feeling the effects of climate change, who are losing their livelihoods due to earthquakes, floods and storms, need?
for that 99%, we must fight at cop for an end to fossil subsidies, for solidarity finance for climate damage.
and most of them don't promise anything about the next climate conference because there's an oil boss at the top.
climate protection is too important.
in dubai, we as the global community must make it clear that we are finally ending coal, oil and gas, that europe is acknowledging its climate debt, and that by 2030, the expansion of wind and solar energy will triple and energy efficiency will double.
because in the end, it's not the climate that suffers from the lack of investment.
climate targets are postponed, burners banned and heating dictates are issued.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
this saves resources and the climate, and that is what the european right to repair does.
repair is no longer a luxury, but it is becoming the norm, because the right to repair finally gives consumers the option of making sustainable choices.
but still: the current compromise is also a milestone in the transition to a circular economy, saving resources and climate, including the consumer's wallet.
60 billion euros for the fight against the coronavirus crisis should not have been allowed to flow into the climate funds, the german constitutional court ruled last week.
the 800 billion euro eu and corona reconstruction programme, which is financed illegally by leyen, is already a third of the debt, which is already going to climate change without a purpose and more soon.
the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of animals and the environment.
the european environment agency has made it clear in many reports that our biodiversity, our species diversity, is at great risk.
and biodiversity is not a value in itself, but it is our survival basis for drinking water, for clean air, for fertile soils.
and according to the environment agency, one of the main drivers of massive pesticide use in the european union countries is the european union.
and the environment committee has presented a very good report here, which is that farmers are being supported through independent consultation, through financial support.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
with all the sincere love for biodiversity, i can say quite frankly: we cannot focus more and more on limitations and this will lead to more global hunger.
the wide-ranging and undifferentiated reduction commitments to complete bans in ecological and sensitive areas are a source of concern for farmers and winemakers.
this will deprive existing industries of their operating base and make us dependent on imports from third countries with lower environmental and social standards.
i am, of course, like most professionals, a supporter of sustainable reduction of pesticides.
they were upset that the fruit and vegetable section of the supermarket alone was receiving so much packaging waste, and they asked me as a politician what we were actually doing about it.
we're consuming far too much packaging waste, whether it's individual pickles, go-go coffee cups or the oversized packages of online retailers.
since 2010, our consumption of packaging waste in the eu has increased by 20%.
every german alone collects 225 kilograms of packaging waste every year, which is about the weight of three washing machines.
we can tighten the waste hierarchy tomorrow, cutting down on our material consumption first because we can't recycle ourselves out of our garbage cans.
we can make packaging that is unavoidable more sustainable and, by the way, we can also have a recycling business programme, because all packaging must be recyclable by 2030 and more recycled material must be found in plastic bags, bottles and boxes.
mr president, legislation on packaging and packaging waste is an important milestone on the road to a sustainable packaging economy in europe.
the target of 10% renewable packaging or reusable packaging by 2030, 25% by 2040 is achievable and any shortcomings can be addressed during this time.
mr. speaker, each of us spends 188 kg of packaging and packaging per year, and packaging waste has increased by 20% over the last 10 years.
it's time to start using resources wisely to protect the environment.
packaging them in plastic would be a taste and environmental aberration.
the regulation on packaging and packaging waste should allow for a better functioning of the internal market and a better transition towards sustainable packaging.
europe must be able to protect the environment, but never at the expense of the specificities of its member states and therefore their prosperity.
mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, needless to say that we have to put an end on the dramatic increase of packaging waste generation.
we can’t deal with a circular model if it is not recognised all the associated benefits of packaging made of renewable material.
mr president, commissioner, there is too much packaging and waste produced today.
we see that there are many good ways to reduce the waste.
through the packaging that is measured right, avoid mini-scaled packaging, for example in hotels, recycling packaging materials so they do not end up in the waste fill and then also the circular economy can diminish needs for new materials through the reuse also we can find it somewhere.
so i hope the trilogues the best of luck not to replace reusable, renewable paper and composites with the plastic that is now happening.
mr sinkevičius, you mentioned at the beginning of the debate that we will only achieve our goal of reducing packaging waste by expanding the options for multiple ways.
among all the measures we are trying to implement at union level to give future generations a chance and to tackle this growing source of waste, the new packaging rules have their place.
on average, each european generates 188 kg of packaging waste per year.
today, colleagues and colleagues, we are faced with the challenge that defines our generation - handling packaging and packaging waste.
we are all aware that the volume of packaging waste in the european union has increased from 66 million tonnes in 2009. ten years later, we had almost 70 million tons of waste.
the reduction of packaging waste while maintaining food safety; the traceability of products with a knowledge of their origin and provenance; and the prevention of food waste.
in the local community, over 50 businesses and growing are now having a cup which is reusable, which they all adhere to, saving a lot in terms of waste and particularly giving a good example to society at large.
i think there is a huge example here that people themselves, even if there is no legislation, will do something which has benefited to society and benefits particularly in eliminating waste.
– mr president, honourable members, let me start with the very positive: first of all, truly thank you for your contributions, because they clearly showed that we are all seriously concerned about the rapid, unsustainable growth in packaging waste.
inaction, if we continue with the same scenario as we have now, would cost 6.4 billion relative to 2030, and that’s a cost for the economy, for the society, for the environment.
very simple: less waste, less resources, less costs.
and that’s good for both citizens and the environment.
i want to reassure you that an impact assessment was done – a very careful one – and that the reuse targets lead to a decrease of water consumption and a reduction of co2 emissions of 1.25 million tonnes in 2030. the commission is fully aware that some lcas with a specific scope on certain sectors and based on arbitrary model assumptions can come with different results.
the commission proposal, though, acknowledges the role of single-use packaging, and thus our proposal foresees a coexistence of both systems established in a way to reap the maximum economic and of course environmental benefits.
now, on reuse, the architecture of the commission proposal builds on improvement of both reuse and recycling, and we cannot be naive that with these growing numbers of waste that we can recycle our way out of it.
finally, honourable members, let me assure you there will be no compromises when it comes to food safety, and we duly analyse the measures to avoid any increase of food waste.
we must do more to reverse the rising tide of packaging waste, and we must do it as soon as possible.
most importantly, this will benefit the environment, reduce pollution and safeguard our single market.
such profound changes towards the circular economy don’t happen overnight, and frédérique ries has put all her energy and experience into ensuring that the european parliament votes within the short time frame to make this regulation something feasible for the economic operators.
circular economy of packaging will help decouple economic development from the use of natural resources, contribute to achieving climate neutrality by 2050, and reduce the eu’s economic strategic dependency on many materials.
packaging is an increasingly important waste source: one european generated 177 kilograms of packaging waste in 2020. if nothing is done, this figure is projected to rise to 209 kilograms by 2030. while i support the overall european ambition to reduce packaging pollution, environmental measures should not at the same time cause trade barriers or market disturbances or deteriorate the functional characteristics of packaging.
in other words, i did not support the environmental committee's proposal to return the glass bottles to the manufacturer instead of breaking them down and making a new packaging.
it also did not support proposals which are contrary to the objectives of reducing food waste, such as the installation of mandatory dosage rooms in the retail premises of stores.
at the same time, they are an increasing source of waste.
every european produces 177 kilograms of packaging waste a year.
this will not only promote our european climate and environmental objectives but also optimise the functioning of the internal market.
let us first focus on where the greatest gains are made, and also consider other challenges, such as hygiene or food waste.
belgium is already a leader in this area, recycling up to 80% of packaging waste, as opposed to countries such as romania and malta, where this is only 40%.
the package and packaging waste regulation currently under consideration is of particular importance for finland.
finland has invested heavily in renewable bio-based packaging, but the commission's proposal unfortunately does not identify the benefits of these packaging.
the commission's proposal unilaterally set out a number of complete packaging bans and reuse requirements to reduce waste.
to achieve europe's ambitious waste reduction targets, we need easier regulation and incentives instead of bans.
the regulation needs to take a wider account of the impact of packaging on many different areas: climate and food waste management, food safety and logistics.
and then also increasing european democracy by giving more power to our parliament, for example, the possibility to take initiatives or also to decide on the income side of the budget and finally, new competences like in defence, health, energy and climate change.
colleagues, if you think about the fact that we in europe have 178 main weapon systems and the united states has 30, it comes with no surprise that we waste taxpayers’ money – pay more, get less.
we must strengthen our energy cooperation to achieve energy independence and decarbonisation.
we must ensure that the internal energy market does not just exist on paper, but also functions in reality.
colleagues, we have no time to waste.
and this will continue if we have a convention and then we have to fight with even more stakeholders, which is the right way to make europe sustainable.
what happens to states, to companies that can't reform when the environment changes?
sovereignty on things like climate change, sovereignty on things like taxing large corporations, sovereignty to defend yourself against russia.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
and 20 million euros more for our nature and biodiversity.
the vote will take place on thursday 23 november 2023. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
the next item on the agenda is the brief presentation of the report by sara matthieu on behalf of the employment and social affairs committee on the creation of jobs fair transition and sustainable investment (2022/2170(ini)) (a9-0342/2023).
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
what we need instead are fewer, clear, simple and transparent rules that support innovation and competitiveness in businesses while also benefiting consumers and the environment and this is exactly what is happening in a sustainable economy made in europe.
this will require reducing the number of regulations and reducing the disconnected emissions reduction targets that have driven jobs out of europe.
yes, some were justified because we have legally anchored our climate targets, as well as the instruments needed to do so.
we had to change our energy supply because of the war, and new product specifications were also needed for a more resource efficient economy.
but the commission and particularly the left-wing of parliament have done a lot of extra work especially to expect companies to report on the most detailed sustainability reporting requirements and to make financing opportunities increasingly dependent on these.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
the deadlines are: motions for resolutions – tuesday 12 december at noon; amendments to motions for resolutions, and joint motions for resolutions – wednesday 13 december at noon; amendments to joint motions for resolutions – wednesday 13 december at 13.00; split and separate votes – wednesday 13 december at 19.00. also for tuesday, the greens group has requested that the statement by the vice-president / high representative on ‘the environmental consequences of the russian aggression against ukraine and the need for accountability’ be wound up with a resolution to be voted at the january part-session.
– madam president, indeed, russia’s war of aggression has also caused severe long term and often irreversible damage to ukraine’s natural environment.
and in the midst of this brutal war, ukraine has shown outstanding leadership by responding to russia’s blatant violations of international law with a commitment to strengthen accountability for serious environmental crimes.
it is crucial that the european parliament will lend its support to ukraine also in these efforts, and to add its voice to calls by the council of europe and others for a better recognition of environmental crimes in armed conflicts.
(parliament rejected the request)also for tuesday, the ecr group has requested that a statement by the high representative on ‘unilateral actions by venezuela’s maduro regime against guyana’ be added as the fifth item in the afternoon after the debate on ‘the environmental consequences of the russian aggression against ukraine and the need for accountability’.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
they know they’re going to be in the next mandate, and it should be obvious to all of us that this disincentivises those candidates from investing time and energy into the process.
i think that europeans will have a chance to make their voice heard, not only as usual on national agendas, but perhaps for the first time on fundamental european questions: our support to ukraine, our climate ambition, the direction of travel towards completing our union, democracy and the rule of law, the economic competitiveness of the eu.
we pledged to reach carbon neutrality, and we know we won’t get there without massive investments.
we have a proposal on the table to address this: the revision of the energy taxation directive, which has been languishing for too long, almost three years now.
the temporary solidarity contribution, responding to a specific crisis situation, has already raised an estimated eur 17 billion of additional proceeds for member states to support households and companies affected by soaring energy prices.
the time has come to align the taxation of energy products with our climate policies, by removing outdated exemptions and reduced rates that encourage the use of fossil fuels, and by promoting clean technologies instead.
with cop28 coming to an end tomorrow, it is time to commit to move forward with the review of the energy taxation directive.
yes, inflation, high energy prices, supply chain difficulties are putting pressure on us all, putting pressure on our companies above all else.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
the energy bill, rent, or food has become priceless for many.
if you want to give a very good example of what the european parliament's committee on industry, energy and research is actually doing, you have a very good example in this initiative, which we have made a significant contribution to as the ep and for which our colleague, franc bogovič, is responsible.
we operate within a clearly defined framework in eu energy policy.
we want to significantly reduce co2 emissions in the energy sector, and that is why we are pushing for the expansion of renewable energy.
but of course, for everyone who really takes climate protection seriously, all forms of low-carbon energy production are the focus here.
and this includes nuclear energy, which a large majority of member states rely on as a basic supplier, as a necessary complement to the fluctuating renewables.
an eu strategy will ensure that nuclear remains a natural part of the eu energy mix, that further research and investment are also made.
and most importantly, we all get a clear picture of the efficiency, the efficiency, the cost, but also the risks of waste disposal and the raw materials used in this new nuclear technology.
for us as evps, energy decisions are at the top of the agenda in terms of how the technology contributes to a safe, affordable and low-carbon energy supply.
and above all: a good, practical law that lays the foundation for the secure supply of raw materials to europe and thus for digital and green transformation, for our prosperity and sustainable economies.
let me introduce four: a new innovative concept with a recycling benchmark based on the raw materials already in waste today.
instead of uncertain projections for consumption in 2030, we're focusing on the amount of strategic raw materials in waste and how much we can recover from it.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
this is not only an important step towards european technological leadership, to scale up innovation, but also to directly reduce the environmental impact of mining and our dependencies.
when we made this proposal last march we knew that there was a common commitment to action on critical raw materials, to reduce our dependence and to make our supply safer and more sustainable.
in the end, the compromise reached will improve our security of supply while ensuring that environmental and social standards are respected, and even i would like to say that they will be strengthened.
secondly, parliament's amendments have led to the introduction of a realistic objective of demand moderation (providing more details on the categories of environmental risks) and have made multilateral governance a requirement for all certification systems.
these amendments and many others reinforce the regulation's sustainability ambition without challenging our model of economic growth.
this is why i initiated a joint declaration of legislators from around the world to work together in ensuring secure, ethical and sustainable access to critical raw materials, which will be published later today.
we therefore want all those who want to place such facilities in the premises to speak out in local communities, to provide additional infrastructure and new jobs in this environment, as this will be the best guarantee of future success for strategic projects.
that we are committed to building new, stable relationships with trusted partners and to creating win-win situations; that we call for a genuine social dialogue with all stakeholders, transparency and understandable sustainability criteria in raw materials projects; i think that we are not talking about a stupid plus and plus, but we are talking about where we can find all the efficiency gains and systematically use waste and recycle and replace it.
the eu's raw materials law is setting the stage for further digitisation, more efficiency and climate protection.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
we are building a european raw materials sector, turning waste into a resource and strengthening global partnerships and thus green, competitive industries without disappearing into the bureaucratic shadow.
a growing amount of strategic raw materials will be recycled in eu waste streams.
the commission has therefore decided to adopt a new directive on the protection of the environment.
clearly, green change requires critical raw materials to achieve our climate targets, and therefore we need demand-driven mining in europe on the highest possible ecological and social criteria.
important: today’s debate and vote are not the end of the process; they are only the beginning – the beginning of europe’s path towards a secure and sustainable supply of critical raw materials.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
and the contradiction to the so-called secondary use, that is to say the uncontrolled transfer of the collected data to politics, research and big pharma, is as hollow as swiss cheese, because to protect others covid is a nice greeting and in other emergencies that the commission calls, it ends emergencies such as a deterioration of the economic assets of the union or the climate crisis.
and i think it's also an important message that we can't waste any more time on things like impact assessments right now because we have the work of the social partners.
don't waste time, make a good proposal here there is wide support for it.
the commission's criticism is not of euro-critics, but of ngos and civil society, who uncontrollably influence eu energy, climate and pro-migration policies.
i also agree with the risks identified in relation to the resilience of supply chains, energy security and critical infrastructure, technological backwardness and coercion.
the european union must defend interests by building strategic trade and diplomatic alliances that are to be solid, stable and lasting with reliable third countries, with the essential aim of promoting the international economic order based on rules and strengthening the role of the wto in monitoring, promoting sustainable trade, defending competition and resolving disputes in a renewed system.
the european union has fully aligned its economy with a green plan that has seen a complete debacle now at the climate change conference in dubai.
we need a real and effective approach to the economy and environmental policy, and you have declared people, livestock and everyone else who produces co2 pollutants to be the planet's polluters and are fueling their lives.
we need to know exactly how they would affect our competitiveness and our business environment.
it is therefore appropriate that the commission respond and analyse strategic dependencies, for example in the raw materials, energy and technology sectors.
we must create new markets through more free trade, access to energy and raw materials through more partnerships.
the explosion of kakhovka dam, destruction of chemical plants, deforestation, contamination of soil, water and air, areas filled with mines..., this is only a short list of ecological crimes which russia did to ukraine.
she also asked that we should always be focused on returning the children who have been abducted and offsetting the environmental damage.
the environmental damage, in fact: 150 million tonnes of co2 have now been recorded as environmental damage.
and they decide whether they're willing to invest in our business location and make our infrastructure climate-friendly.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
the agency is taking on crucial tasks in an increasingly difficult environment.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
two days ago, the climate summit ended.
there is a binding financing of the damage and loss fund, which has more or less crashed the climate summit in sharm el sheikh.
it's good that they get cold feet, because it's about their business model, which puts the global climate at risk.
the emissions trading, the efficiency directive, the renewable energy directive all this must be implemented.
the european union must not only find beautiful words at climate summits, but also implement what science demands at home.
the solution to environmental problems cannot be found without considering at the same time the economic and social dimensions, under the guise of mitigating the impacts of climate change at the expense of even greater inequalities between peoples and states.
this requires a break with the policies that have brought us here: regaining public control over strategic sectors such as energy; promoting local production and consumption; reducing production and consumption circuits; defending the right to food sovereignty; ensuring public control of water; rejecting the commodification of nature; adopting a normative approach to reducing emissions; promoting public transport; defending peace.
it is good to talk regularly with the world about the goal of climate neutrality and increasingly about energy and technology.
whether 250 german government officials will have to fly to dubai in times when the environmental footprint is supposed to play a role is on another page.
ursula von der leyen highlighted the expansion of renewable energy and the increase in energy efficiency as important achievements.
let's work on introducing emissions trading globally, because it will certainly lead to reducing co2 emissions in the most cost-effective way.
we need a european john kerry, an international climate commissioner, who negotiates on a permanent basis.
that has not changed at this climate conference.
we must not have any more fossil lobbyists in the european union delegation and we need to end fossil subsidies, as the climate commissioner hoekstra promised us.
how would the 70,000 climate conference participants have come to dubai without fossil fuels?
so it's good for the climate professionals too that no binding exit from fossil fuels has been decided and nuclear energy is seen as the solution.
both are available at all times, both as primary energy sources and as demand is required, as opposed to electricity or so-called volatile renewables.
moreover, depending on the atmospheric co2 content, over half of the anthropogenic co2 emissions from plants or oceans are absorbed.
so even if you have the absurd idea that co2 is the sole driver of climate change, net zero does not mean zero human emissions.
it is the central outcome of cop28, as it can now be used by countries to develop stronger climate action.
at cop29, governments must establish a new climate finance goal reflecting the scale and urgency of the climate challenge.
and at cop30, they must come prepared with new, nationally determined contributions that are economy-wide, cover all greenhouse gases and are fully aligned with the 1.5°c temperature limit.
i would like to conclude by endorsing the commission's comments and reaffirming the commitment, as i understand it, of this parliament, the commission and of course the council to continue the international commitment through a sound multilateralism based on rules necessary to achieve satisfactory results in the fight against climate change.
the cop28 climate summit, which at first seemed worrying, ended with a satisfactory outcome.
the international community's understanding of the importance of fossil fuel disposal in combating climate change can be considered significant.
the cop28 outcome can be seen as the first step towards the end of the fossil energy age.
however, disappointingly, the cop28 climate agreement gave way too easily to wording and did not highlight the urgency of the matter strongly enough.
we should get rid of fossil fuels much faster, because we are already so close to a turning point where the phenomena of climate change are starting to feed on each other, further accelerating climate change.
beyond the emergency phase, our action in the framework of the solidarity lanes represents the groundwork for a fully connected, interoperable and sustainable trans-european network from portugal to ukraine, from finland to moldova.