that the circular economy will become the formula for all waste management in the eu?
that we use international trade as a lever for environmentally sound waste management worldwide?
that we should take action against environmentally harmful waste management, whether within or outside the eu, immediately?
that we only send waste to non-oecd countries when we know they can and want to do the job?
that we are creating better conditions for research and innovation in waste technologies?
that we consistently oppose the waste crime which is now easier to commit than it is to avoid speeding tickets on the german motorways?
and that we're looking closely at the challenge of exporting plastic waste, so that we're really pushing the development of sustainable, circular use of plastic in ways that the rest of the world can live off of?
no, you do not have to choose, because you can have it all with the proposal which the european parliament is now putting forward as our proposal for the revision of the waste shipment regulation.
the results have been achieved through a negotiation that has been characterised by respect for the technical complexity of the older and very linearly oriented law, which needed to be updated and adapted to today's climate reality.
but instead of fighting blindly, we have opened our eyes to the actual possibilities and mechanisms of the waste sector and the law that underlies the framework of being an open economy in trade with the rest of the world.
and on that basis, we have created a broad and coherent set of amendments that address all the actors needed to make waste transport a sustainable part of the circular economy.
because now that we know that the eu's waste exports have only increased over the last few years, by as much as 75% between 2004 and 2020, and that our waste is in many places floating around on beaches and landfills far away from europe, there is no excuse for not doing anything about it.
a significant proportion of that waste is plastic.
but it's also been a prerequisite for me that it happens in a way that is realistic and supports innovation and the development of business models that are really innovative and develop business models that are really sustainable and circular in their handling of plastics.
nor will we be able to engage in a better and more sustainable way with our nature and our consumption unless we start with a circular economy in our waste management.
and that requires us to create an internal market for waste.
war, energy crisis, climate conflict and a grotesque, growing economic inequality here in europe too.
the debate is somewhat similar to the logic of those who mistakenly believe that more taxes, more loans, more regulations and more state aid are the way to achieve climate goals without harming our competitiveness.
it had fatal consequences, creating the biggest energy crisis since the 1970s.
we do this by having competitive energy prices, and it is absolutely, absolutely necessary that we have competitive energy prices, because otherwise we will not have the fertiliser production in the eu.
the energy we don't use is the best for the climate and for our wallets and for our security.
because with the inclusion of energy policy in security and major policy after russia's hostile invasion of ukraine, we have to take it very seriously.
we need it if energy efficiency is to deliver the co2 reductions needed to meet the agreed climate targets by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050. so, of course, the buildings have to contribute to the green transition.
especially if the critics are right that these are some of the reasons why we would not be able to meet the climate targets.
let us now get down to business and we will do so by voting in favour of the political agreement negotiated by the committee on industry and energy and the additional proposals on the table which can only make this better.
data provides us with valuable insights needed to fight climate change, diagnose diseases, as well as to produce food and goods more sustainably.
this information is vital to empower citizens to make sustainable choices when they buy connected devices, and i hope to see it in the final legislation.
because the bees in our natural environment are under pressure, swarms of bees are dying, and we don't know why, but just because we don't know exactly why, doesn't mean we shouldn't take action.
are you aware that there is a climate crisis?
frankly, i’m just asking because tomorrow we are voting on the extremely climate-harmful f-gases.
we all know that f-gases are up to 24 000 times more damaging to the climate than co2.
we all know that f-gases contribute to more eu emissions than several member states.
let us take climate action now.
we have pledged to reduce the eu's co2 emissions by at least 55% by 2030. that promise, it must be kept.
if it can do what it needs to do without destroying our businesses and the economy, we need to be able to do what we want to do for the climate.
i have to say, madam president, the eu must be independent and self-sufficient in energy.
it is absolutely crucial for our future and an absolutely crucial element in our energy storage.
but first of all, we have to make sure that we have enough green energy and energy production.
we also need to ensure that we have access to the essential minerals so that we can store our energy.
we must be self-sufficient in energy in the eu.
we're going to be masters of our own house, energy-wise.
but the green ngo transport & environment can tell us today that the big car manufacturers are reaping huge profits.
so climate action is affordable.
we have had, and we shall continue to have, an eu green deal to deal with the climate during this period.
that we also have a water biology that ensures that everything that concerns our water is given a comprehensive legislative boost and a boost in a way that we make the eu water-smart for our own sake, for the sake of the next generation and to a large extent also for the rest of the world, which can learn a lot from the way we make water the healthy, the energy-smart, the sustainable resource that it should be for a world in balance.
when i read the state of the energy union report, i also see that we are not on track.
so i have an idea for all of us: why don’t we step up the climate efforts – more renewable energy, more energy efficiency – and in the same way we reduce our gas imports, our fossil imports from russia.
even if the title is about energy.
the logic is that water is mostly about energy, and the way we use water is a lot of energy.
water is used for energy production, cooling, energy production and energy transport.
it is therefore not satisfactory, of course, that the status of this year's energy union report is not digging deep enough into the ocean of potential that is about to activate the relationship between water and energy.
i am not kate blanchett, but i can say again that this year's un water conference strongly stressed that water must be taken seriously as the central catalyst for health, food and energy.
we will not be green without more control over the blue, and the eu actually has the capabilities and therefore the duty to make energy and water play better together.
there's gonna be a lot of energy in that.
every year at least 70 000 europeans die from air pollution, more than three times the number of traffic deaths.
the vast majority of eu citizens are exposed to deadly air pollution.
air pollution, which is overwhelmingly caused by cars and trucks.
as part of it, it’s important that we have sustainability criteria for when we have auctions and public procurement, so that we complement the price criteria.
we need to reward the projects that are in line with our climate targets, our environmental targets and our values.
are we going to take an important step in the fight against climate change?
unfortunately, we also face a right wing who will once again water down the necessary climate action to unrecognition.
if you reject our proposal today, you're hurting the climate.
we cannot achieve the necessary climate action if we do not reverse the heavy transport.
you have asked why you import cattle and milk from new zealand, but for example lamb can be produced with a better environmental impact in new zealand and transported frozen to europe.
so it's more advantageous to produce agricultural products where there's less impact on the climate, instead of producing them in heated farms in europe.
this law is intended to harmonize packaging rules, reduce our consumption of disposable packaging and reduce waste.
since 2009, the volume of waste in europe has increased by 20%.
so let's get a law that phases out plastic waste.
let's get the plastic out and let nature and the environment in.
this europe has for years failed to speak up against israeli violations of international law; failed to speak out against the human-rights violations that palestinians in the occupied territories daily suffer; failed to pressure for a sustainable two-state solution, where both israelis and palestinians can live in peace and prosperity, side by side.
during the most recent crises, such as covid, the energy crisis or inflation, inequalities increased, inequalities between men and women, inequality between the very rich and the rest, and inequalities between big corporations and small businesses and self-employed.
do they want a tax system that doesn’t make workers bear the burden, as they can’t easily move around to another country, a more gender equal tax system – and it is no coincidence that men mostly own shares and have most wealth, and that this wealth remains low taxed – a fairer tax system in which big polluters and multinationals pay taxes on their excess profits made on the back of normal people paying a higher bill in the supermarkets, a society with sufficient tax revenues to invest in our healthcare, education, infrastructure, renewable energy and innovative businesses?
we are facing a war at our borders, and a climate and a biodiversity crisis.
we're going to have to buy from more people and get more from our own underground, huge amounts of waste and wastewater.
otherwise we're not going to reach the climate targets!
similarly, the current deindustrialization of the eu economy will not be able to turn into sustainable innovative growth, which is necessary to deliver not only on climate targets but also on all the defence and life science needs we want.
because otherwise we will never get anywhere near getting china to participate in solving the global challenges we face with climate, biodiversity, public health, food security and so on.