mr president, commissioner, we are in a very difficult period for europe: high energy prices for raw materials, fierce competition from the united states and china and the threat of deindustrialization is becoming more and more serious.
in this context, the responsible management of our waste is not just an environmental and public health issue.
waste is a tremendously valuable resource, with great economic and industrial potential if we learn to use it intelligently.
the regulation we are discussing today is essential to reduce our dependence and make our production more sustainable and now a circular model.
but i also think we have to go further and that is why i think we must ensure, with effective controls and very clear criteria, that at all stages of waste management we do not turn our backs on our standards with massive shipments to third countries.
first of all, as regards the proposed ban on the export of plastic waste from the eu, which, as i already said in my introductory remarks, we will need to assess very carefully.
the eu rules on the export of plastic waste have become stricter since 2021, and this has already led to a decrease in the export of plastic waste to non-oecd countries over the last two years.
furthermore, with our proposal, we are proposing a new regime applying to the export of all waste that will, in practice, further strengthen the conditions under which plastic waste could be exported outside the european union.
we have not pursued the option of a complete export ban for plastic waste in our proposal as, according to international rules, a restriction on trade has to be grounded on purely environmental grounds and can only be imposed when no other less trade-restrictive measures are available to achieve the objectives.
in this case, we believe that the measures in the commission proposal are both effective in curbing plastic pollution caused by our exports of plastic waste and proportionate to the problems.
we also believe that our proposal could contribute to raising the standards for the management of plastic waste in third countries.
the commission proposal includes strong measures to ensure that waste, including metal waste, is treated in broadly equivalent conditions to the european union, and these measures are expected to lead to a decrease of waste exports.
and our impact assessment showed that the eu industry has the capacity to process this waste.
as regards labour conditions in third countries and sustainable management of waste, we have taken note of a proposal of the european parliament to consider eight international labour organization conventions and we are open to considering including such agreements in country assessments.
finally, as regards illegal shipment activities, the commission is working closely with enforcement agencies from the eu member states, the eu network for the implementation and enforcement of environmental law, europol and international organisations like the united nations office on drugs and crime, and the basel convention to tackle illegal waste management activities and illegal waste shipments.
and the eu notably supports cross-border investigations and cooperation between enforcement agencies in its member states, and this is reinforced in the waste shipment regulation.
you can count on our support to help the co-legislators ensure that ambitious futureproof rules start applying to waste shipments without any delay.
we must therefore value the entrepreneurial spirit of trade unions and traders, relying on them for european digitalisation, sustainable mobility, the circular and green economy, because they are the economy on the street.
the beginning of the swedish presidency comes at a key moment for the european union, as structural measures are expected throughout the year to respond to social discontent over high inflation, while work continues on the solution to the terrible ukrainian conflict, the challenge of european competitiveness, the reform of the energy market - and in particular the comprehensive reform of the electricity market - the ecological transition and the defence of the rule of law.
i think we have achieved our objectives: to identify the regulatory gaps and really put on the table the need to harmonise the laws governing video games in europe, so that all european citizens enjoy the same level of protection regardless of where they live, while being able to boost a favourable ecosystem for companies to develop in such an important sector.
in short, it's about protecting especially young people, children, in the online world, in the video game sector, but also, i repeat, creating the right ecosystem so that our companies can develop and be global leaders, because the protection of rights and the boost of the industry can and should go hand in hand.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
madam president, commissioner, i am among those who conclude that the setbacks and crises we are coming from, such as this illegal, unjust and criminal war of aggression, must make the european union grow in its proclaimed vocation to be globally relevant and thus contribute to the globalisation not only of artificial intelligence, the digital agenda and the fight against climate change, but also of criminal law and criminal justice against the impunity of war crimes.
we need cooperation and agreements with reliable economic and political partners to face the three challenges of the 21st century: climate change, the technological revolution and social cohesion.
the eu’s global gateway will accompany this new agenda, supporting sustainable investment that reinforces our connections and help to strengthen our resilience.
co-investment is offered in digital, green, health, transport, education and research areas, always on the basis of core values and advanced social and environmental standards.
defending democracy also means enhancing our work together in favour of inclusive, just and sustainable development.
because they are necessary to rebuild multilateralism, to defend democracies in the world, as two democratic blocs, to ensure fair growth based on fair trade, to deal with the energy crisis that europe is suffering today, to deal with the food crisis that the world is suffering today, or to avoid a bipolar world.
as we work hard to defend democracy, fundamental rights, disinformation, equality and the environment in the eu, we should be coherent and promote the same values towards our partners, building a mutual partnership that is based not only on trade deals, but also on cooperation and development.
the eu is defining a strategy to boost industrial competitiveness, trade and quality jobs in the face of the race for subsidies at international level, such as the us with the inflation reduction act or china, in a changing global context of energy dependence, war in ukraine, rising prices and revision of the state aid framework.
the eu is defining a strategy to boost industrial competitiveness, trade and quality jobs in the face of the race for subsidies at international level, such as the us with the inflation reduction act or china, in a changing global context of energy dependence, war in ukraine, rising prices and revision of the state aid framework.
we need to reduce the administrative burden and strengthen the european framework to encourage investment and the business environment.
doing so under the disguise of alleged environmental ngos is an act of cynicism.
mr president, dear colleagues, for over a month now, an aliyev regime-sponsored group who pretend to be environmental activists are blocking the corridor between armenia and nagorno-karabakh.
because of our energy deals, we have even shut our eyes to the human rights situation in azerbaijan and aliyev’s aggression against armenia.
the eu is increasingly alarmed about the negative humanitarian impact resulting from the lack of food, medicine and other essential goods and medical services, in addition to regular disruptions to energy supplies and telecommunications.
the current situation is not sustainable and creates tensions that run contrary to the much—needed confidence—building efforts.
in a few months, we will celebrate the 75th independence day of our country, whose immense contribution to humanity and to europe in particular – in countless fields including science, agriculture, energy, security, technology, culture, health, education and so much more – is an established fact.
the epp group has requested that the debate on the council and commission statements on ‘preparation of the special european council meeting of february, in particular the need to develop sustainable solutions in the area of asylum and migration’ be wound up with a resolution to be voted at the next part-session.
mr president, madam minister, sustainable solutions in the area of asylum and migration.
what we know is what's not sustainable.
it is not sustainable to confuse refugee and immigrant.
it is not sustainable to define as irregular those who enter illegally, when the burden of the states falls on any european when he presents his taxes a day later.
it is not sustainable to offer work to illegal immigrants when there are millions of unemployed europeans.
it is not sustainable that a moroccan citizen, with an expulsion order not executed by the sánchez government, murders a sacristan and wounds a priest and several parishioners in a church in algeciras.
it is not sustainable that, of the 682 000 illegal immigrants that eurostat estimates there were in 2021, only half have an expulsion order and 10% of these orders are executed.
i say from here, from this house, to the allies, to the west, to nato: please don't waste another six, seven, eight months debating this issue.
for humanitarian reasons, yes, but also because we believe that this would help to create a more standardised, less polarized political agenda and, certainly, with more political energy devoted to getting back on the path of the european union.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the compromise is an important part of a comprehensive response to the three major crises of the last few months: this terrible russian war of aggression and the fact that, unfortunately, our dependence has also financed russia - this must end - the high energy prices that still affect many businesses and citizens, and the climate crisis.
the exclusive powers of the environment committee, for which i was responsible, were particularly controversial.
many have been reluctant to intervene in emissions trading.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on industry, research and energy.
if we can produce enough energy at reasonable prices in a sustainable way, we will dominate the fight against climate change worldwide, guarantee the competitiveness of our companies and make our continent more independent of difficult partners.
so every penny in such energy infrastructure is right.
energy infrastructure is at the heart of our economy and our social fabric.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that in the long term the european union needs to strengthen its energy independence.
repowereu thus represents the means by which member states can make further investments in the energy sector.
they have already understood their own responsibility, so that the energy sector is predominant in national recovery and resilience plans.
the commission will also continue to support the development of the energy efficiency and renewable energy technologies in the union.
agriculture has been and is an important pillar in a complex of mechanisms including energy independence and climate change.
however, it is important that the agricultural sector continues to be allocated substantial financial resources to meet current challenges, including those related to energy.
russia’s unprovoked and unlawful aggression against ukraine has triggered a massive disruption of the global energy market.
it is under these unprecedented circumstances that repowereu was devised with one clear objective: providing affordable, secure and sustainable energy for europe.
thanks to its focus on the green transition and resilience, the rrf was put at the centre of the union’s coordinated response to the unprecedented energy crisis.
these funds can be used to finance a wide set of measures, such as investments in the critical infrastructure to increase energy security and reforms, speeding up permitting to accelerate the rollout of renewables.
with high energy prices affecting some more than others, the facility can finance measures addressing energy poverty, providing targeted support to vulnerable households and businesses.
the recovery and resilience facility is built upon one core european value: solidarity – solidarity in the face of the covid pandemic, the energy crisis and the growing global competition in the transition towards a net-zero economy.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, european citizens, families and businesses are paying a very high price for our excessive dependence on energy.
there is no lack of resources for member states to invest in energy efficiency, in renewables.
but then we must have a real energy union, and for that, cross-border projects, interconnections are essential.
i hope that national egoism will not triumph and that protectionism will not win, because there are people who talk a lot about energy autonomy, but then in the pyrenees in france they do not allow the energy to pass to the building of a real energy union for the benefit of all european citizens.
this proposal aims to support member states to become independent from russian fossil fuel and accelerate the energy transition with access to loans and additional grants under the rrf.
it aims also to help them cope with the short—term effects of the energy crisis, bringing down the high energy bills european consumers face because of the war, increasing the energy supply by including natural gas projects and cross—border projects under certain provisions within the necessary energy transition, and also improving our infrastructure.
it is also important that member states would be able to receive funding for addressing energy poverty for households and smes.
– madam president, dear commissioner, in europe, we’re making a historic effort right now to achieve our energy autonomy as soon as possible and forever.
both repowereu and now the green deal industrial plan should greatly boost strategic investments in energy.
i have said it before and i will say it again: the categorical inclusion in this plan of decarbonised, abundant and affordable nuclear energy would have enabled us to contribute to our reindustrialisation, a condition for our independence and competitiveness, especially in relation to the united states, which is being boosted by the biden plan, and which is probably not unaware of this parameter.
we need to move towards a strategic vision of the future that is sustainable in the long term.
a sustainable transition without a prominent role for nuclear energy is, in my view, doomed to failure.
the aim is to reduce energy dependency, to provide sustainable alternatives and to establish solid internal energy networks.
but the big problem, the big drawback, is that we're trying to fund the response to the war in ukraine and the energy crisis with the money that we decided to use to respond to the pandemic.
that is why the solution is inadequate to deal with precision, the energy crisis and the increase in social inequalities.
the repowereu chapter already has a government decision to allocate eur 700 million to energy efficiency, increasing the share of alternative energy sources and strengthening the electricity system.
madam president, commissioner, without a doubt, the approval of the repowereu chapter today within the framework of the recovery and resilience fund is very good news, because we are giving solutions to the real problems caused by russia's illegal invasion of ukraine, giving resolution to the serious crisis of inflation and the serious crisis that high energy prices are causing for european households and businesses alike.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
it should allow us to make sure that such a case remains an exceptional case, and it should allow us to make sure that in the future members and ngos can work well together in a predictable environment, but based on the rules.
and finally, this will be an exemplary constellation in terms of spatial and environmental sustainability.
do we have to reduce co2 emissions and therefore warming, when cars and vans emit a fifth of those emissions?
we want sustainable, affordable, clean mobility.
so if we make the decision to end the sale of combustion vehicles by 2035, we achieve those three big goals: we reduce emissions, we promote sustainable mobility, and we transform the sector to be competitive.
mr president, commissioner, many of us here share a common objective: to reduce emissions in the transport sector and to achieve climate neutrality.
electrification of the mobile fleet is an option, yes, of course, but it's not the only option, because as long as we're going exclusively electric, the rest of the world will continue to bet and invest on getting much more efficient combustion engines, much more sustainable, or technological alternatives beyond purely electric.
and, what is worse, i fear that this policy on emissions for cars and vans will set the road map for heavy vehicles.
this regulation, together with other legislative measures such as the anti-slapp directive or the report that will come out of the pegasus commission of inquiry, should be the cornerstone of a democratic and resilient media ecosystem in europe.
they know perfectly well, because they have already come out to recognize it, that their commitment to raising interest rates is not holding back inflation, because it has to do with energy prices.
it is a waste and a mockery which, on top of that, i have already threatened to maintain and increase.
madam president, madam minister, access to key and strategic raw materials is essential for the green and digital transitions, which will enable us to achieve climate neutrality and also strategic autonomy in this new geo-strategic context of profound transformation of the international order as we know it.
on the one hand, by encouraging production, recycling and also research and innovation within the european union, so that this activity is based on environmental, social and economic sustainability.
madam president, the digital green transition could be very good if we all paid for it, if it were fair and in line with the planet's limits, which are quite clear, except for terraforming, but not if we replace coal mines with lithium mines or fertile fields with mega wind farms; not if we convert some territories into new colonies for others by fragmenting the european map; not if we sacrifice the life and health of the poorest to increase the profits of the old-timers, those who were once brick speculators and are now extra activists; not if we put even more pressure on depopulated areas to occupy the land and drive people out as if this were the conquest of the west; not if we eliminate environmental requirements to favour the environment, ecologically, because speed and voracity are not sustainable.
digital green transition in extremadura, my region, in spain; mega-mining; macro-mining of lithium; macro-city of leisure; macro-sugar mills; macro-photovoltaics; mega-rainfall; intensive crops; mega-factories of industrial toxic waste, giant landfills: a party is in full swing.
i mean, ecological transition, yes, but not like this.
for the socialists, it is a central and geo-strategic issue, as these materials are key to the digital and energy transitions and to industries in those sectors, such as renewable energy technology, electronics, aerospace and defence.
we must also continue to build strategic alliances with like-minded countries to ensure secure and sustainable access to critical raw materials that enable climate neutrality.
for the socialists, it is a central and geo-strategic issue, as these materials are key to the digital and energy transitions and to industries in those sectors, such as renewable energy technology, electronics, aerospace and defence.
we must also continue to build strategic alliances with like-minded countries to ensure secure and sustainable access to critical raw materials that enable climate neutrality.
for the socialists, it is a central and geo-strategic issue, as these materials are key to the digital and energy transitions and to industries in those sectors, such as renewable energy technology, electronics, aerospace and defence.
we must also continue to build strategic alliances with like-minded countries to ensure secure and sustainable access to critical raw materials that enable climate neutrality.
for the socialists, it is a central and geo-strategic issue, as these materials are key to the digital and energy transitions and to industries in those sectors, such as renewable energy technology, electronics, aerospace and defence.
we must also continue to build strategic alliances with like-minded countries to ensure secure and sustainable access to critical raw materials that enable climate neutrality.
the fertilizer industry is racking up the bad points as a climate killer, polluting the air, water and soil.
these little nitrate balls are climate, economic and health bombs.
the availability of fertilisers for the european union will find its future in agronomic systems and certainly not in industrial, climate-destroying chemistry.
scientific innovation helps us meet the challenge of building a model that is sustainable, both environmentally and economically.
it is now possible to build biogas plants for the production of fertilisers and energy at reasonable cost, which reduce the quantity of product produced while maintaining the same performance, shortening the supply chain and reducing the dependence of european countries on extra-eu imports.
such innovations should be promoted and supported by the union in the form of incentives and facilities for a production model capable of taking the sector beyond the current difficulties towards a future where new scientific knowledge is at the service of a renewed environmental awareness.
finally, we must have a long-term strategy that ensures both sustainability and food security, for example by promoting organic fertilisers and reducing chemicals in our land.
biodiversity - we always say this - is a european treasure.
mr president, policy coherence for development is the concept that binds the sustainable development goals to other eu policies, and it is wonderful that team europe contributes 43% of all overseas aid globally.
and we want africa to go through the energy transition without repeating the mistakes we’ve made.
and if we do this in a coherent way, we’ll not just bring clean energy to africa, we will also bring development because it will have a huge positive impact on the health-care situation if women in africa, because mostly women do the cooking, if they no longer have to do the cooking on charcoal but can do it with the help of photovoltaic heat, then they no longer have to inhale the fumes, nor the babies they carry on their back.
under the european consensus development policy, coherence is now a key element of europe’s work on the sustainable development goals under our 2030 agenda.
i will do then my work on climate and energy diplomacy, and i know that it will be done in all other policy areas as well.
our european efforts to try and build a sustainable society of the future will work best if we do not just not leave anyone behind in europe, but if we also leave no one behind in the rest of the world.
furthermore, the confusion between the dpc and the integration of the sustainable development goals into european policies has accentuated this artistic blur.
since then, the strategic environment of the european union has radically changed.
we are faced with the weaponisation of interdependencies, whether it’s on energy or raw materials, medical and pharmaceutical products, migration or technologies.
the consequences of the climate crisis are becoming ever more apparent, and the international order is being challenged and is being reshaped as we speak.
this new environment is not a return to the bipolar world of the cold war.
the capacity of the eeas should also be enhanced and in order to ensure good interinstitutional, coordination and integration of all eu policies, in particular those with an external dimension like, for instance, migration, trade and energy.
you, the baltic countries, have been warning for years about energy dependence, about the threat posed by russia, and everyone looked the other way.
it is not sustainable to go to a foreign affairs council with 30, 32 or 33 states with veto power on foreign policy, for example.
the european semester that we are advocating this year from the european parliament is putting all its strength into ensuring that the objectives of economic growth are linked to a socio-ecological and inclusive transformation of our economies, considering all transitions on an equal footing and avoiding social, economic and environmental imbalances by fighting poverty, reducing inequalities and creating decent jobs with decent wages and conditions.
the objectives of economic growth should be in line with the sustainable development goals and the european pillar of social rights.
budgetary consolidation will only be sustainable if the distributional impact of reallocated expenditure or changes in revenue is well calibrated and contributes to reducing socioeconomic inequalities.
developing instruments that self-regulate market fluctuations and guarantee the sustainability and survival of our social welfare system is one of the main focuses of this semester.
measures, for example, to help curb the volatility of energy prices.
we therefore need tools to address the uneven impact of climate change and environmental degradation across different income groups, as well as the social consequences of transforming our societies towards climate neutrality.
a social climate fund can be the start of a mechanism that lays the foundations for social ecological protection schemes at national level, with the support of the european union to strengthen social resilience to climate change and environmental degradation.
the report also envisages a new sovereign fund to ensure, among other things, that all member states have the flexibility to deal with social, climate and environmental challenges.
it should have new governance and investment instruments based on social justice to overcome any underlying socio-economic imbalances and move towards sustainable and inclusive growth and fair green and digital transitions.
mr president, commissioner, if we want more security, what is clear is that we need more renewable energy and less fossil fuels.
secondly, welcome the new right to share energy that citizens now have.
we must make sure that this reform of the electricity market gives a real signal that renewables are the cheapest energy.
we also want to take advantage of the new climate, because this is, after all, the debate on relations between the european union and the united kingdom, to recover some elements of cooperation that we proposed back in the day - you will remember - in the agreement on the future relationship, which prime minister boris johnson decided to withdraw at that time, such as cooperation on foreign and security policy and other important elements.
mrs von der leyen was very happy yesterday to announce a proposal for a change in the electricity market which does not change anything because it does not change the marginalist pricing system, since gas will continue to determine the price of energy in europe.
in the energy field, the european union's energy security means stopping market manipulation - this is the key element - using renewable energy from its own resources and increasing energy efficiency - another point we are very keen on - and lowering the bills for industry and citizens.
given the instability of the financial system, and i'm talking about the silicon valley bank failure, again, it shows why we need to take care of an energy system that has stability, so that it doesn't create additional pressure on companies or citizens, because situations are going to be very difficult or very complicated.
unfortunately, the commission's proposal to introduce a new electricity market model is insufficient, it does not address any of these things that i have mentioned, nor does it address market manipulation properly, nor does it address a predictable system of bills and energy prices, and this is something that we have to correct and we will do it in the european parliament.
the european community was founded on coal, steel, atomic energy, common agricultural production, free movement and the christian social order.
it is a reform that is not proven to create a sustainable system and it is a reform that all the entrepreneurs complain about that they sat at the table without even having seen a single piece of paper.
it would also be useful to look at the entry of organised crime into the field of environmental crime - a field in which criminals see business opportunities.
i think the title, we all agree, could not be more appropriate: 'save bees and farmers: towards a bee-friendly agriculture for a healthy environment'.
there are two regulations under way in this house: the nature restoration regulation, which sets out the legal obligation of member states to reverse the decline of nature, and the regulation on the sustainable use of pesticides, which deals with the reduction of pesticide use.
and here, pesticides do not explain everything - land use change, loss of habitats, intensive farming, pollution, pests, climate change... the fight to save our bees is global.
madam president, commissioner mcguinness, whenever we speak in this parliament about agriculture, in this case in the framework of the citizens' initiative 'save bees and farmers: towards a bee-friendly agriculture for a healthy environment', it seems that some people have just discovered agriculture or want to make a clean slate of all the achievements we have made in the last few decades.
because farmers want to spend less money on plant protection products, they want to treat their crops as best they can, and they want to protect the biodiversity that is so important to their livelihood.
this is the only way to find solutions to meet, as i said, the scale of this challenge, we will also continue to engage with the private sector and multilateral development banks to mobilise funds for climate- and nature-positive investments and to ensure that their vision, mission, operating model and financing are fit for purpose.
it represents a major opportunity for the international community to fast-forward concrete solutions and find the resources we desperately need to keep the 1.5 celsius goal of the paris agreement alive and to increase climate resilience in the most vulnerable countries.
it is important that we speak with a coherent european voice across all tracks: development, finance and climate.
it operates in an extremely complicated international ecosystem and it has a highly technical and constantly evolving nature.
this was the spirit and energy that forged the good friday agreement 25 years ago, and this is the spirit and energy we still need today to protect these hard-won gains and to build a lasting peace for the children on the island of ireland and everywhere in europe.
safeguarding fundamental rights of all citizens is a crucial part of a sustainable peace, and that is why the european convention on human rights has played such an important role for peace—building in northern ireland and the good friday agreement.
europe cannot meet the global challenge of sustainable transition without additional resources.
the geopolitical dynamic also poses challenges such as inflation or reducing strategic dependencies on technologies, energy or critical materials.
and all this while we have to align our economic base to the ecological transformation.
the serious consequences of the war in ukraine - inflation, energy prices and the growing pressure of illegal migration at the external borders - are clear signs of this.
we must fight climate change, but without imposing short-term, unattainable policies that ruin businesses and families.
we must protect the environment, but we must do so with the support of farmers and livestock farmers, not against them.
let's not waste any more time.
finally, in saying goodbye to you, i would like to thank the colleagues with whom we have worked for a union of solidarity and perspective, for a democratic and self-reliant europe, which is at the forefront of the protection of human rights and the environment.
you know, the examples, for example, whether it’s on critical raw materials or the renewable energy, on emerging tech like artificial intelligence, quantum computing or biotech.
it was a chance to discuss with president xi the shared challenges that we need to work on together, whether in our bilateral trading relations or on global issues like debt relief, climate change and nuclear non-proliferation.
you know them all, it’s energy, it’s health and pharmaceutical products, it’s food security, but also, of course, when it comes to our defence capabilities.
that is why we as a generation should complete this idea today, namely to build a resource and energy union for europe to be independent.
mr president, humanity is facing global challenges of unprecedented magnitude, with climate energy, with pandemics, with war in europe.
the possibilities for cooperation between us are immense: strengthening multilateralism, accelerating the fight against climate change, achieving the millennium development goals.
it will remain a trade partner and a key player in meeting the challenges of the 21st century, starting with the fight against climate change.
mr president, madam president, high representative, dear colleagues, it is certainly true that we are obliged to pursue a selective engagement with beijing on those dossiers that are multilateral by nature, most notably the fight against climate change.
but we remain open to working with china on crucial challenges, such as climate change.
i would like to acknowledge that some very important things have been done during this energy crisis, such as gas storage, which has helped us to get through, albeit with some pain, the crisis we have experienced.
the truth is that for the green deal to be a reality, a significant part of energy demand, especially electricity, has to move towards renewables.
the renewable energy installation figures are promising, but we can do more, we must go faster; these figures have to be accompanied by flexibility, both in storage and in active demand management.
this will help to better manage electricity price spikes and will also allow consumers to better manage their energy needs.
we have the potential to increase the flexibility that is constituting, as the energy transition progresses, also through the electrification of demand.
water is a common good that serves much more than producing energy.
improving energy storage requires member states to commit, through their national energy and climate plans, to achieving sufficient targets to improve this flexibility management.
we call on the transitional government to put an end to the criminalisation of peaceful social protest and to guarantee this right; to put an end to the climate of harassment of human rights defenders and journalists who are also victims of constant harassment by certain groups; to promote a dialogue with all the sectors that have been the protagonists of the protests, a dialogue that must, in fact, be supported by the european union; a dialogue crucial to finding a consensual solution to the crisis.
mr prime minister, the european union has ambitious objectives, whether in the fight against climate change, digitalisation or defence.
i am of course proud of the luxembourg government's commitment to nuclear energy, which, we agree, is neither green, safe nor renewable.
so, thank you for your support of our minister of energy, mr. claude turmes, and the taxonomy complaint.
so let's talk about finance: as one of the largest financial markets in europe, we have a special responsibility to implement the ecological transition and promote social justice also beyond the union.
the directive is precisely the opportunity for luxembourg to clearly position itself as a leader in truly sustainable finance, respectful of human rights and environmental law.
europe is the pursuit of constant improvement in living and working conditions, balanced trade, fair competition and sustainable economic development, and not the adoption of rules that cripple the growth of our companies and prevent them from competing on equal terms under the climate excuse.
in addition, a more ambitious plan was promised to clean up our environment of toxic chemicals and so far we have not seen any progress, ladies and gentlemen of the commission.
chemical pollution is a very serious problem with serious health consequences.
i therefore take this opportunity to ask the commission to honour its promise of an ecological transition and to come forward with its legislative proposals as a matter of urgency, because public health, the environment, must always come first.
ladies and gentlemen, as the former vice-chair of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of automobile emissions, i see the outcome of dieselgate in the european union as a big loss for all.
the fact is that the legally mandated emissions reduction targets have become disconnected from what is physically, economically and socially feasible.
madam president, commissioner, i was a member of the committee of inquiry which in 2017 concluded that the discrepancies between the nitrogen oxide emissions of diesel cars during laboratory tests and under real driving conditions were real.
the dieselgate scandal had a very negative impact on the reputation of the european automobile industry, as well as on the damage caused to the environment and consumers, which was compensated differently in different markets.
the transition must ensure the competitiveness of the industry, but also the environmental sustainability of the solutions.
mr president, commissioner, the important thing about the diesel case is not the late judgment of the court of justice, but what you did after the scandal of 'accelerating the insane climate agenda by forcing electrification', because europe, the world leader in clean combustion engines, loses the position that its companies had been gaining for decades.
eight years after the outbreak of the dieselgate scandal, the international council on clean transport (icct) report has found that more than 40% of cars on the road in europe still have 'extreme' levels of nitrous oxide (nox) emissions.
the transition to electric vehicles will also be a decisive step in reducing air pollution from cars and vans.
eight years after the outbreak of the dieselgate scandal, the international council on clean transport (icct) report has found that more than 40% of cars on the road in europe still have 'extreme' levels of nitrous oxide (nox) emissions.
the transition to electric vehicles will also be a decisive step in reducing air pollution from cars and vans.
this multi-stakeholder approach entails the sharing of an ecosystem combining health policies and capacities, skills, new funding models and the use of sustainable development and inclusive digitalisation tools.
the disunity comes when we speak about concrete actions, but at the end of the day, it is not abstract debates about climate change that are going to change the world, but concrete actions, so let us take concrete actions, colleagues.
mr. president, let's read the ipcc report and we'll find that our inconsistency is monumental, that any effort made today to combat global warming will be more effective than if it were made tomorrow.
thirty years of accumulating emissions, and as a result, the opportunities to reduce the most negative consequences of climate change are much smaller today than they were yesterday.
and that only underscores the need for faster action to reduce our emissions and, not least, to increase our energy efficiency.
there's a climate summit in november.
mr president, we are discussing here the sixth assessment report by the ipcc, putting in all our knowledge of climate science together.
and i think what is most interesting is, of course, the progress that you see in science, because the messages of climate science have become clearer, harder and more urgent every time you see such a report.
we see that climate impacts are regarded as being more severe than the previous assessment report.
so the impacts of climate change have been underestimated before.
but what we also see is that the current climate plans of the world are likely exceeding the 1.5 degrees, so the world is not on track and not doing enough.
and it is true, because we are here to fight against the effects of climate change, but, ladies and gentlemen - i look to the left of the house and to the centre of the house - we are also here to fight against the deniers, who are a prior problem and we are seeing it here, in this house.
there is still work to be done, not only on combating climate change - the package of measures - but also on protecting nature and species.
because the climate crisis is important, but the crisis of nature and the disappearance of species, too.
and we are very late, as the report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change of the united nations says, and the report of the copernicus programme, which points to alarming changes in the european climate.
even today, in a context of rising global temperatures, severe droughts, torrential rains and fires, there are people who insist on denying climate change.
in this parliament they defend pollution, waste of water or continue to burn oil, coal and gas as if nothing had happened.
the first step in a just ecological transition is to protect our natural spaces and invest so that this transition leaves no one behind.
mr president, commissioner, at the last davos forum world leaders warned of climate change and demanded that everyone make an effort to improve the situation.
the same thing happened at the madrid, glasgow and egypt climate summits.
you want to lecture on climate science, but you don't care about the environmental impact when you sign free trade agreements with third countries that fill supermarkets with products transported on polluting ships across the oceans.
spanish citizens are already suffering the consequences of climate change, it's a tangible problem.
fighting climate change now is the only way to protect our well-being in the decades ahead.
at international level, there is an urgent need for non-binding commitments by third countries to be translated into legislative measures and for a decisive agreement at the next cop28 climate summit.
spanish citizens are already suffering the consequences of climate change, it's a tangible problem.
fighting climate change now is the only way to protect our well-being in the decades ahead.
at international level, there is an urgent need for non-binding commitments by third countries to be translated into legislative measures and for a decisive agreement at the next cop28 climate summit.
spanish citizens are already suffering the consequences of climate change, it's a tangible problem.
fighting climate change now is the only way to protect our well-being in the decades ahead.
at international level, there is an urgent need for non-binding commitments by third countries to be translated into legislative measures and for a decisive agreement at the next cop28 climate summit.
spanish citizens are already suffering the consequences of climate change, it's a tangible problem.
fighting climate change now is the only way to protect our well-being in the decades ahead.
at international level, there is an urgent need for non-binding commitments by third countries to be translated into legislative measures and for a decisive agreement at the next cop28 climate summit.
spanish citizens are already suffering the consequences of climate change, it's a tangible problem.
fighting climate change now is the only way to protect our well-being in the decades ahead.
at international level, there is an urgent need for non-binding commitments by third countries to be translated into legislative measures and for a decisive agreement at the next cop28 climate summit.
spanish citizens are already suffering the consequences of climate change, it's a tangible problem.
fighting climate change now is the only way to protect our well-being in the decades ahead.
at international level, there is an urgent need for non-binding commitments by third countries to be translated into legislative measures and for a decisive agreement at the next cop28 climate summit.
spanish citizens are already suffering the consequences of climate change, it's a tangible problem.
fighting climate change now is the only way to protect our well-being in the decades ahead.
at international level, there is an urgent need for non-binding commitments by third countries to be translated into legislative measures and for a decisive agreement at the next cop28 climate summit.
therefore, in the face of this new energy and inflation crisis, flexibility in the temporary framework for state aid measures is very necessary.
it is essential that we have at the same time competitiveness that leads to convergence, without ever forgetting cohesion on the one hand and sustainability on the other.
we have much more spending on importing and exporting products, and on energy, education, health and a long list of other things.
i also value the energy-saving and environmental footprint reduction measures of the institution and also the intense and diverse communication activity carried out by parliament to inform citizens.
yes, and the tasks ahead, which are indeed enormous, are also attractive - from energy networks and hydrogen projects to the development of new sources of raw materials, and even to the reconstruction of ukraine.
if we tackle this with soundness and with the economy, we can finance the tasks of the future in a sustainable way.
the data support this: nine out of ten citizens in the european union believe in the green deal and sustainability, but only 32% have the capacity today to repair their products in our european market.
so this is a way of making europe much greener, more sustainable, but above all closer to the citizens.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
and that is that the climate crisis is already here, and if there is a tool that is useful for us to decarbonize, to emit less co2, it is renewables.
i therefore also ask some groups that flirt with climate denialism to take into account that, in that way, we also lose the renewable progress that europe needs.
in addition, this directive seeks climate justice, which is also social justice, because let us not forget that renewable energies are also affordable for citizens.
these are just some of the consequences of climate change today.
and in that sense, it is imperative that when we talk about fighting climate change, we do so from the concrete side as well, by providing solutions.
one of the most important is the adaptation and transformation of the current energy model, a transition that accelerates the abandonment of fossil energy for renewable energy, which is done with criteria of social justice, which allows the planning of available resources in a rational way and, if possible, to do so from the public.
mr president, commissioner, this is the first edition to assess the impact of the energy crisis, and i see that the report is optimistic about how the union has dealt with the price crisis, but i think it forgets to assess how energy prices have been passed on to the public in the form of inflation on such basic products as food and how some of the measures implemented in certain countries have been more effective in controlling inflation.
i think our fossil dependence continues to be a serious climate problem and also an economic drag.
we have a new renewable energy directive.
our proposal reduces nox emissions by 60% in trucks, 33% in cars and for the first time in the world, particulate matter from brakes and wheels, and increases the durability of batteries.
we therefore ask you to support our proposal, which is good for the environment, good for citizens and also good for europe's competitiveness.
we are all aware of the challenges to advance our environmental and climate objectives, while maintaining the competitiveness of our automotive industry and providing our citizens with the best conditions for affordable mobility.
the euro 6 already in force has reduced emissions by 90% and i consider the effort to regulate further without restoring the fleet of vehicles that pollutes the environment the most to be useless.
the draft euro 7 regulation extends the objective of reducing emissions of road transport pollutants by emissions from braking and tyre braking, but also extends the life of batteries.
election observation has for many years been a way of assisting countries to make elections better and in this climate it is becoming a kind of early warning system about the legitimacy of authoritarian regimes.
madam president, the net zero emissions industry law aims to strengthen the manufacturing capacity in europe for technologies that will help to decarbonize our economies.
– madam president, honourable members, first of all, i want to thank you for the opportunity to debate the commission proposal for a regulation on the sustainable use of plant protection products.
our previous discussions made clear that we can at least agree on one basic principle, namely, the importance of protecting citizens’ health and the environment, at the same time protecting the eu’s farmers, agricultural production and food security.
turning to the international aspects, we must not lose sight of the goals agreed at the cop 15 global biodiversity framework meeting in montreal last december.
this regulation is based on two very important pillars: the preservation of biodiversity (because the more pesticides are used, the less fauna, flora and habitats there are, as pesticides are found in water, air and all environments).
this regulation on the sustainable use of plant protection products is therefore very important.
madam president, the eurobarometer shows us that european citizens are ready and demanding a more sustainable and pesticide-free food system.
but beyond these cold statistics, i could also tell you about the devastating impact of pesticides on biodiversity, on soils, on bees.
these examples of pesticide-damaged lives, and of course ecological disasters, are indeed things we must absolutely act on.
i am not aware of anyone who is against reducing environmental impact.
this is not only in the interests of the farmer, but also in the interests of the environment and our environment.
because it's a waste of money if we use our seeds, diesel and other forms of energy throughout the season to grow that plant and then at the end of the season, in august-september, we find out that the harvest has failed.
pure waste and also a pure waste of the food crops that are rotting on the land.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
it is not only about protecting biodiversity but also about protecting the health of european citizens.
this is also true: we need to have a different farming environment in the long term, with fewer pesticides.
we need a clear signal to the citizens of europe that we take the protection of biodiversity seriously.
our soils are in very poor condition and biodiversity is declining globally.
together we can help our farmers make the transition to sustainable agriculture.
sustainable use of pesticides is essential for reducing impacts on human, environmental and animal health.
i would like to ask the commissioner, mr president, if he is not going to vote on the report on the sustainable use of pesticides tomorrow.
if this alarm cries are not enough for you, think quickly about the environmental costs of pesticides, and they are the primary cause of our biodiversity decline, the primary cause of water pollution and the primary cause of the decline in soil fertility.
mrs president, commissioner, agricultural sustainability is crucial to ensuring our food sovereignty and the survival of farmers.
and no one like them to protect the environment.
should strategies be developed to promote sustainable practices?
the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of animals and the environment.
that is why the work of the committee on agriculture and of our rapporteur, clara aguilera, for whom i am grateful, has focused on finding the most ambitious balance between the essential sustainability objectives we have set ourselves as the european union and the equally essential need for our farmers to be accompanied in this transition.
a work that has succeeded in overcoming ideological positions, achieving pragmatic results that make the goal of reducing plant protection products by 50% realistic, but only if this pathway is accompanied by a major innovation effort, with concrete alternatives to combating plant diseases, starting with new sustainable biotechnologies.
the vote tomorrow will put us before a choice: we must leave aside political constraints and polarisation to reach a final text that really supports the environmental, social and economic sustainability of the agricultural sector and our rural areas.
and this is exactly what we need to be guiding tomorrow's vote on climate and biodiversity protection.
the proposal of the environment committee is not a solution, it is a sham solution.
and you can see that there is more biodiversity in my home country, and that's what the latest ecological monitoring shows.
our raw-founder and great climate advocate frans timmermans, former vice president, back home in holland, has also agreed with the young dutch farmers that the use of nitrogen fuels must be opposed to farmers.
this proposal for a regulation, as it comes today from the commission on the environment, public health and food safety, can cause irreparable damage to the future of the european agri-food sector.
this historic agreement also includes unprecedented commitments on sustainability, fundamental rights and gender rights, as has been well stated.
mr president, i believe that in the european union we have a problem with packaging waste which is addressed in this regulation and it is time.
since the treaty of lisbon, much has changed in the world, and the eu has faced a multitude of crises: we had the financial crisis, the pandemic, the migration crisis, a growing climate emergency, the war in ukraine and now the conflict in israel and palestine.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the challenges facing the european union are a double-edged sword: the commission is not prepared to accept the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
we want, as in every democracy, citizens to have the opportunity to express themselves directly, and we want the union's competences to be expanded in key areas such as environmental protection, health, labour and social policies: the basic principle is a protocol for social progress.
do you really think that farmers or ranchers will accept that all competition on environment, biodiversity and climate is in the hands of climate fans?
we particularly welcome the positive approach, as well as the key role of fairness in the transition towards climate neutrality, that frame the report and its conclusions.
that is why we put forward various initiatives to promote adequate employment and training policies, including the european year of skills and skills-related provisions under climate policies that are mentioned in the report, such as the skills academies under the net-zero industry act.
madam president, i vote in support of this proposal, as it directly delivers on the key priority of the european green deal: sustainable consumption.
the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment.
a uachtaráin, i voted in favour of the net-zero industry act, as it stands as a crucial legislative measure actively addressing the escalating impacts of climate change.
the proposal’s core objective is to bolster european manufacturing capacity for net-zero technologies, addressing barriers that hinder scalability in europe while enhancing the eu’s energy resilience.
this approach enhances the act’s effectiveness and efficiency in promoting sustainable and innovative projects.
in addition to this, the act addresses the crucial aspect of carbon capture and storage by setting a target for annual co2 storage capacity, further emphasising the commitment to reducing carbon emissions and promoting sustainable processes.
a uachtaráin, i supported the carbon removal certification framework proposal that aims to establish an effective certification system for carbon removal and sequestration from the atmosphere.
in the itre committee, as the epp rapporteur, i was strongly in favour of ensuring carbon farming would be eligible – an all-stick-no-carrot approach with the result if not including carbon farming.
this, in my view, would not be fair to farmers all across europe, who are trying to make their practices more sustainable, essentially incentivise rather than dictate.
the main goal of this proposal is to encourage businesses with high emissions to adopt techniques and technologies for carbon removal.
this is set to happen through the voluntary use of certificates, specifically designed certificates, that act as a proof of high-quality carbon removal.
the aim of the certification framework is to support innovative carbon removal technologies and sustainable carbon farming solutions, while also cracking down on greenwashing, which i of course support.
madam president, i supported this draft report because it is important to note that the heavy-duty vehicle sector is responsible for more than a quarter of the greenhouse gas emissions from road transport in the european union and in fact more than 6% of the total greenhouse gas emissions in the european union.
the proposal has three objectives: first, it aims to reduce co2 emissions in a cost-effective way for heavy-duty vehicles, in line with the european union's objective.
secondly, it aims to ensure benefits for european transport operators and users, most of whom are smes, by introducing more energy efficient technologies in vehicles.
madam president, despite an overall downward trend in eu greenhouse gas emissions, the greenhouse gas emissions from the road sector have been on the rise in the eu and it is now responsible for a fifth of the emissions.
heavy-duty vehicles are responsible for 28% of all emissions from the road sector, despite accounting for 2% of the fleet.
while this proposal regulates performance of hdvs, a good result will not only benefit the climate, but also be an important step in improving air quality, as the most problematic pollutants – for example nitrous oxide, carbon monoxide, particle measure – come from tailpipe emissions.
madam president, today we have approved the mandate of the european parliament for this very important climate conference.
i support this resolution because the conference meeting in dubai in december will be key to assessing whether the activities and actions and commitments of individual states so far are realistic in achieving the common objective of the paris climate agreement, namely not to exceed 2°c of temperature growth compared to the preindustrial era.
the european parliament's proposal for an amendment from our committee on the environment, public health and food safety is certainly ambitious.
and, as we have been also reminded by several honourable members who intervened, like ms ballarín cereza or mr heinäluoma, i think through this modern and progressive legislation we actually built the european union, which is socially just, which is environmentally friendly and through which we became champion in tackling climate change.
the last point, madam president, a very concrete point, which we are, of course, happy to provide more detailed information to mr ferber and mr hoogeveen on the corporate sustainable reporting directive.
we have been doing our utmost and we wanted to have the best possible advice, so we have been working with the european financial advisory board to help us to streamline the european sustainable standards.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, most of the efforts in recent months have been focused on policies aimed at achieving europe's objectives, drawing on the creativity and energy of the private sector.
in the end, it will be our companies, our researchers and our researchers, and our citizens and our citizens who make the ecological and digital transitions possible, while ensuring european strategic autonomy and the resilience of our supply chains.
we must not forget that what we decide in the coming months will have a direct impact on the business environment.
these values are threatened in a geopolitical environment that seems increasingly hostile.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
in addition, we have devoted considerable energy to evaluating the dialogue itself four years after the last review in 2019. we now aim to incorporate into the council conclusions the current reinforced approach of the council's dialogue on the rule of law, which i can only say is a truly positive experience.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
madam president, something as small as bees has great environmental and agricultural value.
today they are in grave danger of extinction from climate change, habitat loss, industrial agriculture, intensive farming and pesticide abuse.
and consequently, they also endanger biodiversity, beekeeping and food security.
but of course it must go further, betting on a model of extensive, sustainable and ecological agriculture, which produces healthy food and preserves biodiversity.
this is what nature restoration is about: ensuring the health of our environment to ensure our food in the future.
in addition, after the war, or during the war, we have strengthened our security and defence strategy and therefore our energy union.
clearly, we need climate action at the same time in many places, and the technology of small nuclear reactors may be one of the sources of decarbonised energy.
even so, by developing these small reactors we will not eliminate one of their problems, which is waste.
but of course, research and innovation in the fight against climate change are needed, through simplification, design, standardization and probably cost reduction.
resources are finite, and the ipcc has made it very clear: the most efficient way to reduce emissions and to gain broadly clean and additional energy is from renewable sources using wind and sun, mature systems and fully reliable energy systems.
these days, at the conference of the parties, the commitment is clear: to double energy efficiency and triple renewable energy by 2030. i therefore conclude that research is necessary, and development is also necessary.
but let's not use this small nuclear reactor to drain resources that should be devoted to renewables and advance our climate neutrality goal by 2050.
madam president, the new measures proposed in this review are aimed at giving drivers greater safety in tourist and occasional transport and improving their working conditions.
the agreement guarantees 10% for extraction, 40% for processing and increases recycling by at least 25% of consumption by 2030. in addition, an increase in the recovery of raw materials from waste has been achieved, which was undoubtedly a pending subject.
the guarantee of environmental, social and economic sustainability has also been strengthened, and more balanced relations with our strategic partners have been strengthened, and research to discover new materials has been strengthened.
coming from a region, andalusia, with seventeen critical minerals identified, i believe we will follow very closely the implementation of the law so that it will result in the welfare of citizens our open strategic autonomy and with the highest environmental and social standards.
without a secure supply, there is no energy transition and no strategic autonomy in europe.
it is not enough to ensure the highest environmental and sustainability guarantees.
we also need more efforts to recover and recycle waste from these raw materials, as we have said in this parliament.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have passed a lot of legislation in this parliament to make the european union a benchmark in the fight against climate change.
mr president, commissioner, legislation on the right to disconnect is not only linked to a change in the working environment, but also to the protection of workers' mental health.
and i think that over the last few years, we clearly demonstrated that we know how to stand tall and united in the face of the last crisis with covid, with war in ukraine, or with the challenges linked with the energy crisis and high inflation.
if you allow me to conclude on climate change and competitiveness.
they had to choose between a coalition of the right and the far right, which aimed to repeal much of the social, economic and environmental progress that we have approved and promoted in spain over the past few years and to reapply the failed neoliberal prescriptions, which caused so much pain during the last financial crisis, and a coalition of progressive forces which, despite our differences, shared the desire to continue moving forward and to continue consolidating the european project, to continue to strive for social justice, for the dignity of the working class, for tolerance, for respect as the basic norm for democratic coexistence, for open societies, for just causes such as feminism or transitions and digital and, of course, for the strengthening of our common green europe project.
the difficulties our citizens have faced in recent years - let us remember the shortage of health products, even masks, particularly in countries where we initially suffered very strongly from the effects of the pandemic, the climate emergency and the economic, social and environmental consequences of it, putin's war in ukraine and its transfer to energy prices and the economic impact it is having on the pocket of our citizens - should not be left unaddressed.
the second priority we set, together with reindustrialisation and open strategic autonomy, was to move forward in the ecological transition and to take measures to adapt to the effects of this climate emergency.
we did this because for us europeans and europeans, curbing climate change and environmental degradation is not just a matter of survival.
if we implement it well, if we are consistent and persistent over the next few years, if we don't use crises to postpone our duty to the climate emergency, i think the ecological transition will help us to be more prosperous and more competitive, it will allow us to create new industries, we will grow to an additional point of gross domestic product every year and we will be able to create more than a million new jobs in this decade alone.
it will also help us to drastically reduce our dependence on energy and raw materials from abroad.
we have reached agreements to reduce industrial emissions of pollutant gases, and to move towards sustainable air transport.
we have adopted several pioneering regulations that will help us to better reuse waste and have more durable, repairable and recyclable products.
reindustrialisation, adaptation and response to the climate emergency.
a reform that, in addition to fostering the need to boost renewable energy, will make electricity prices lower, more stable and insert greater transparency into the system and therefore more information for consumers, our fellow citizens, and will protect citizens from possible abuses by multinational energy companies.
we also hope that before the end of the year an agreement will be reached to reform the tax rules, which will allow us to maintain sound public accounts and at the same time adequately finance all the obligations of the member states in the fields of defence, security, ecological transition, digital transformation and, of course, the public services and social benefits that our citizens deserve and demand.
there are political forces in this house who do not believe in europe, who consider europe a decadent, spoiled society, obsessed with undertaking the ecological transition and defending levels of equality and social welfare that we cannot afford.
we're the first recipient of foreign direct investment and we're the second best innovation ecosystem.
so what i mean is that we have the talent, the companies and the public institutions needed to lead the ecological transition and the development of the industries of the future.
to understand that it is possible to build a europe with leading companies, with clean and cheap energy, with full employment, with decent wages, with good public services and with a better standard of living for the majority of our country's society.
but in spite of these crises, we have still managed to focus on a huge set of priorities ranging from competitiveness to climate and energy, from economic governance to migration and artificial intelligence – actually successfully just concluded.
second, our work on energy.
we can be proud of that, because we proposed the global pledge to triple renewable energy and to double energy efficiency by 2030. some 130 countries immediately joined us, and now the whole world has endorsed our targets in the final cop declaration.
europe is at the forefront of it, investing in clean and home-grown energy for all.
the european homeland is being built with a union at the forefront of the fight against climate change, because we know from science that we have to limit the rise in temperature and that we have no alternative but to comply with the green pact, reform the electricity market to reduce prices and accelerate the use of renewable energy.
this is not for the greens and their climate investment.
in order to achieve energy autonomy, it is necessary to promote public energy companies, to deploy renewable energy from strategic regions.
we agreed to improve the link between our self-government, the basque concert, the navarre convention and the ertzaintza in the european institutional system; to deepen the social model so that the ecological and digital transition does not leave anyone behind and is based more on technology than on ideology.
because here many policies are being decided that affect our lives: european funds, labour, energy, the productive sectors, transport, the economy.
the commission has failed to put an emphasis on the ukraine-russia conflict, to bring the parties to a table, to end the death penalty by negotiation and to ensure the security of energy supply in europe accordingly.
the reform of the renewable energy electricity market has been agreed, but we run the serious risk of replacing coal mines with lithium mines or fertile fields with solar megaparks.
i am very much in favour of the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment.
if we talk about energy, it turns out that spain is increasing its gas purchases from putin.
this is a higher than usual figure, which highlights our commitment to the major transformations that our union needs and in particular to the reindustrialisation of europe and the strengthening of its open strategic autonomy, as well as to the progress of the ecological transition and social and economic justice.
this is a higher than usual figure, which highlights our commitment to the major transformations that our union needs and in particular to the reindustrialisation of europe and the strengthening of its open strategic autonomy, as well as to the progress of the ecological transition and social and economic justice.
this is a higher than usual figure, which highlights our commitment to the major transformations that our union needs and in particular to the reindustrialisation of europe and the strengthening of its open strategic autonomy, as well as to the progress of the ecological transition and social and economic justice.
this is a higher than usual figure, which highlights our commitment to the major transformations that our union needs and in particular to the reindustrialisation of europe and the strengthening of its open strategic autonomy, as well as to the progress of the ecological transition and social and economic justice.
mr president, the 28th cpc will allow the world to take a step in the right direction in what is the greatest challenge for humanity in this century: global warming.
it has shown that climate multilateralism works, with a space for dialogue and standards to address common objectives and common challenges, and i want to say that in a world like today, dislocated, with so much competition between great powers, it is something to stand out.
the conclusions of the conference are as follows: we have launched and operated a loss and damage fund claimed by the global south and, moreover, half of the resources committed come from the european union or the eu member states; we will triple renewable energy and double energy efficiency by 2030, a goal that has been led by europe, and finally we have sent the right message: we are transitioning to a world without fossil fuels, without fossil fuels.
but how do they want to control ocean emissions when, on the other hand, they are promoting the acquisition of agricultural and livestock products from other continents that must be brought into the big markets, rather than supporting agriculture and livestock in europe?