sweden has long been known for being at the forefront of gender equality, climate and democracy issues.
it's a government that has shut down the swedish ministry of the environment.
yes, you heard right who has shut down the swedish ministry of the environment and cut sweden's climate budget by 58 percent.
i hope that we will be many in support of a humane and supportive refugee policy, an ambitious climate policy that can deliver for future generations and a credible work for democracy and the rule of law in all member states.
we don't have a day to lose in the climate change.
another, no less important subject for the presidency must be energy policy.
now it is necessary for the eu to come back to earth from its green revolution utopia, which is not realistic either economically or to, as it is said, 'prevent climate change'.
– mr president, commissioner, colleagues, on 15 december last year i made a statement as the chair of the delegation for relations with south caucasus, expressing concern by the actions of the azerbaijani state authorities and purported environmental protesters.
so, one might have thought that the revision of this regulation was a great opportunity for these funds to contribute to a better future, by investing primarily in renewable energy, in the circular economy, in hospitals, services, etc.
because without the mobilisation of this private capital, the ecological transition will not take place.
but the commission has achieved the double feat of not including in the proposals what is necessary for a sustainability provision and of obstructing all the proposals which were nevertheless common sense: publication of the share of assets in our taxonomy-compliant activities, creation of green funds, prohibition for these funds to invest in activities which undermine one of the environmental objectives set by the european union.
and the ecological transition is still in the doldrums.
luckily enough, they are helped by the eu’s sustainable finance agenda.
they help to clarify the important long-term sustainability risks faced by the funds and they provide direction of travel for the long term.
if i invest in a long-term fund i expect to care about the long-term risks, such as climate risks, and work towards the long-term climate transition.
instead, the regulation creates an environmentally sustainable eltif.
it is the planning and the systematic approach, the elimination of bureaucracy, the sustainable schemes, in fact, that are all the challenges that we expected this reform to bring and to deal with.
and i think there is an awareness today because of the horrors of what’s happening in ukraine and the energy crisis, that we do have to actually invest faster into the green and digital way.
i am talking about investments in transport, energy, telecoms infrastructure, bridges, tunnels, electricity transmission lines, gas storage facilities, power plants and fibre optic cables, but also social infrastructure, such as hospitals, retirement homes and social housing.
now, i would like to address the sustainable eltifs and green investments, and i would like to recall that eltifs are already subject to the sustainable financial disclosure regulation, and the new eltif regulation makes that explicitly clear.
creating an extra category of sustainable eltifs will be weighed up during the evaluation mandated by the accelerated review clause only two years after the entry of the revised eltif regulation into force.
finally, the creation of sustainable eltifs was deemed untimely and unwarranted at this stage, given the economic and legal assessment.
these changes will be based on the latest innovative technologies in creating a new space ecosystem, and this proposal forms a key part of the eu’s space package.
the eu, in response to the crisis and the global energy market caused by the russian invasion of ukraine, has launched the european union's repowereu plan.
the repowereu plan is to do the following: choose energy, generate clean energy, and diversify our energy supply.
the aim of the plan is to increase the eu's current energy supply and diversify it so that europe becomes independent of russian-based fuels well before 2030. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme.
the european commission is proposing a new energy policy for the eu, which will be based on the principle of the 'green economy'.
mr president, i welcome today's vote on the repowereu legislative package, which is key to tackling the current energy crisis by supporting infrastructure projects or increasing the energy efficiency of buildings.
i appreciate that the package includes one of the requirements of slovakia, which kdh has been promoting from the beginning, namely the use of the unused cohesion funds to support vulnerable households as well as businesses most affected by the energy crisis.
it is crucial that the slovak government uses these funds strategically and works with the regions to help those most affected by the energy crisis.
we need to diversify our energy sources, ensure security of supply, invest in energy storage, also promote the faster development of renewable energy sources and also promote the stability of supply.
and there's no doubt that transportation is contributing to the rising co2 emissions.
i am convinced, however, that it is not possible to impose a complete ban on this combustion engine technology without further action, because the emissions can be very low.
the lack of infrastructure, recharging systems or even the transmission of new energy systems is also a major problem.
madam president, commissioner, just as we have defined and are implementing a 'green deal', that is, a pact to make the european union a global reference in the energy transition and decarbonisation, we also have to implement a 'data deal' for citizenship and competitiveness.
data is going to play a huge part there in reducing emissions so that consumers can use data to use their appliances at the optimum time and thus reduce their electricity bills and also, of course, reduce emissions.
our help is needed more than ever in moldova, which is under enormous political and energy pressure from pro-russian forces.
however, the energy price has risen sharply, which has had a significant effect on the general public, the economy and politics.
we must draw conclusions and invest more in the green energy economy, which is actually becoming more and more important in terms of the climate of our planet.
(beifall) nach meiner überzeugung is die entscheidung in lithuania to withdraw from the import of russian energy gas, öl und strom ein vorbild zur nachahmung durch andere staaten der europäischen union.
we are very disturbed that russia is increasingly turning to the nuclear energy industry as a means of extortion.
but of course, and you have mentioned it, mr president, we need full energy independence of the brutal russian regime.
simply switching from one energy dependency on one dictatorship to another will not solve any of our problems.
nor does the shift from one fossil fuel dependency to another non-renewable energy source.
the only sustainable answer that will prevent us from having the exact same problem that we have been facing in the last year again, in two, five or ten years is to make our energy consumption 100% renewable.
the green deal for long already has not only been a measure that we need to protect our climate or to stimulate our economy, it has become the most crucial measure also for strong security in the european continent.
they promise to take care of the poorest of the poor, but they promote carbon trading, which drives up prices and makes people poorer.
we also talked about the need to strengthen europe's energy independence and develop its own industries, including heavy and defence.
do not waste it.
we need to ensure we can compete as a global leader in strategic technologies and succeed in this digital and climate transition.
so when we have some kind of common line, who is setting up the common line and common policy when we are talking about climate policy, when we’re talking about trade policy, about defence, about the military?
in addition, in a world affected by climate change and biodiversity loss, the ultimate goal of the common agricultural policy may no longer be to increase production indefinitely.
this requires increasing the union's competence in defence, foreign affairs and the global challenge to climate change.
you are living in a bubble here with a great money and salary, and you do not care about those 27 different member states – the different climate situations that we have different migration problems, defence problems.
we all know that cyberattacks are the new normal and therefore it is particularly important that legal information about our citizens is moved in a secure environment and not through the public internet or cloud services.
so all the talk at the same time by the european commission about how we are currently dealing with climate agreements, trying to solve our social problems, is pointless.