strong action is needed to stop climate change.
it gives europe a reason to stop all energy imports from russia.
it will enable us to move to renewable energy sources - zero-emission energy sources - faster than we thought possible.
in this respect, the safety of europeans, the climate and the environment are all working hand in hand and cooperating well.
the new resources are important, as is the reallocation of old resources, in order to free europe from its energy dependence on russia.
mr president, the eu's main objectives are certainly to reduce its dependence on russia in energy matters and to promote the use of renewable energy.
the key to all this is to promote the use of renewable and sustainable bioenergy.
however, this is not directly mentioned in this report, although almost all other equivalent renewable energy sources are mentioned.
i would, however, interpret article 21c as including the eligibility of bioenergy, since the intention to promote and increase the use of renewable energy is expressed in that paragraph.
half the world is now running around obsessed with a non-existent problem: climate religion.
the electric car has higher emissions than the internal combustion engine when the whole life cycle is taken into account.
the war has caused widespread humanitarian distress, massive environmental destruction, and widespread destruction of civilian infrastructure.
mr president, wind turbines, solar panels, batteries and electrolysers are the foundation of the future energy system and they require different metals and minerals to produce.
the world is not going to have metal forever, and its demand will grow in the energy crisis many times over.
the nature of our planet will not survive this breakdown unless we also change our entire way of using natural resources to make them sustainable.
minimising the environmental impact of energy depletion and ensuring social sustainability in europe and beyond.
the eu countries' potential for success lies in, for example, green carbon-neutral recycled dust.
it is essential that we also ensure the social and environmental sustainability of mining, both within and outside the eu.
we cannot afford to compromise on the existing environmental rules and we must be prepared carefully for the environmental risks of mining.
mining is not suitable for all areas because of its environmental impact.
at the same time, we must respect the rights of indigenous peoples, that is, we must ensure that solutions to the climate crisis are sustainable for nature and for people.
the requirement to be zero emission by 2028 for new buildings is more understandable, as is the requirement for the entire building stock to be climate neutral by 2050, but for existing residential buildings the energy efficiency class requirements by 2030 and 2033 are unreasonable.
in countries where the transition to zero-emission energy for heating is faster, such as finland, which is to be fully zero-emission for heating by 2030, the performance is particularly poor.
instead of contributing to climate change, it can and must be turned into being sustainable both for climate and nature.
we must put an end to practices which are damaging for biodiversity and jeopardise the capacity of forests and soils to absorb carbon.
there is a growing demand for regenerative farming and forestry and also in nature restoration in protecting our biodiversity.
it can also contribute to added climate benefits.
this is ultimately necessary if we are to achieve carbon neutrality, a balance between emissions and removals by 2050 at the latest within the union, and also beyond that to carbon negativity.
this increase is the importance of monitoring and scrutinising that there is a proper carbon sink policy in place, but also gives the commission possibilities to implement this policy.
an additional flexibility of 178 million tonnes for eu 27 over the entire period is available, in particular to compensate emissions generated by natural disturbances, the longer-term impact of climate change and the result of exceptionally high proportion of organic soils.
this means that there will be a larger integration of biodiversity policies and climate policies, which is really good.
the countries are different and the situation is different, but the commission's refusal to put new barriers to the use of sustainable bio-based energy will make it much easier to accept.
however, at present, most renewable energy is generated by wind power.
we are calling ourselves the global climate leader in the speeches, and one might conclude that we are already clearly on the path to paris, but unfortunately this is not yet the case.
the freight sharing sector accounts for 60% of total eu emissions and is an important tool for achieving reductions in national activities.
the burden-sharing sector should not be extended to the emissions trading sector, as the ets is the most effective way of accelerating the transition of businesses and production, but the burden-sharing sector allows member states to ensure that the green transition is also socially sustainable, by choosing the means that are most appropriate for them to achieve the objectives agreed together.
overall, it looks like, for fit for 55, we're going to get over 55 percent of the emissions reduction targets, which is good news, but carbon neutrality is a balance, which means it's completely dependent on us also sequestering carbon and sequestering enough of it.
and this is the forest carbon cycle in the center.
it is incredible, however, that instead of protecting the natural absorption of forests by ensuring that wood is used sensibly for products with high added value carbon that bind for a long time, we are burning wood for energy.
this misuse of the carbon soul of the forests is not only possible, it is specifically supported.
no matter which political group you belong to, you cannot find a more stupid use for forests - from a climate or an economic point of view.
and because we have to be honest, we're never going to get all the emissions out of our lives, so we have to have a swallow that covers those necessary emissions.
if we want to achieve the paris path and the carbon neutrality target, the goal of being carbon neutral by 2050 at the latest, which we have set ourselves as a binding target in the climate law, we must be able to set the same standards for agriculture and forestry as we have set for all other sectors.
mr president, when wood is cut down and either burned or used for something, a new tree that captures emissions will grow in its place.
young forests are more efficient at sequestering carbon than old forests.
obviously, we all know when it comes to climate ambition and keeping the global warming to 1.5 degrees, or even close to that, we as europe also need to do more.
we are now starting for the first time to have a proper increase of carbon—sink policy, and this is the basis where we will build on post 2030 to continue increasing our carbon sinks.
how can we increase sustainability in a way that is good for economics as well, that creates jobs, that will be more productive for agriculture, for forestry, and takes more into consideration to biodiversity as well?
so if they postpone having a proper carbon—sink policy, my view is that some member states still don’t have one.
you have the tools in this regulation to intervene and help member states to realise that tapping into regenerative farming and forestry is a possibility for the member states, for the economics, but also a necessity for the climate.
so we need to also see how agriculture will be better climate wise, how we can support carbon farming and also public policies, not just private companies’ contributions.
so the harvesting amounts we do have today are a problem, and we need to also solve that, not just going for the bulk industry when it comes to forestry, but have more higher end products with lesser impact for negative impact for climate and biodiversity.
that's over five percent of all the emissions in the world.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal.
mr president, the new ets is the eu's most important instrument for reducing emissions and for climate action in general.
the reform will double the current rate of reduction of emissions from the ets, i.e.
it sends a clear message to industry and the energy sector: it is not worth investing in old, emission-intensive technology.
the introduction of a cbam carbon cap tax on imports of steel, aluminium, cement, fertilisers and electricity is a justified measure.
the consequence is that the free allocation of emissions from these sectors will disappear in the internal market at the same rate as the rise in cbam.
i therefore believe that the risk of carbon leakage must be addressed before the law enters into force and during its implementation.
this huge tanker called the eu is slowly starting to turn its course towards a climate-resilient europe.
but there is still a long way to go and a lot of work to do to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, as we have set ourselves as a binding target in the climate change agreement.
but if we are to reach that 2030 emission reduction target, if it is to be possible, fixing and expanding the emissions trading system is a key tool.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to reduce emissions from the transport sector.
emissions trading is the single most effective tool for achieving emission reductions and therefore its expansion is essential from an emissions reduction perspective.
but at the same time, it is fair to say that the extension of the emissions trading scheme to real estate and transport challenges us in terms of social justice.
it is therefore regrettable that the social climate fund, as a result of the council's unconditional request, has been considerably reduced to the level that parliament and the commission wanted.
it is as necessary as the reductions in emissions that are sought in the context of enlargement.
the power of emissions trading lies in its ability to accelerate the development and deployment of new, cleaner alternatives, thereby creating new jobs and sustainable economic growth.
it is very likely that the next european parliament will have to adjust its course and raise its targets in order to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.
– mr president, dear commissioner, with the fit for 55 package, energy and climate files are mainly agreed.
we are now moving very fast into a renewables-based energy system, and renewables are the main tool to achieve the climate ambition.
currently, energy use accounts for 75% of our greenhouse gas emissions and for these emissions to be reduced in a cost efficient way, we also need different flexibility tools, such as demand-side response, supply-side flexibility, interconnections and obviously, as a key component, storage.
we will need more storage to have a cost-efficient, climate-smart and integrated energy system that helps europe to move into a sustainable energy system.
in general, the greens support the commission’s recommendation on energy storage.
in the renewable energy directive, the permitting aspects related to storage assets were accelerated, so developing storage can be a lot faster than we have foreseen in so far.
in the same vein, an obligation to consider the potential of storage and demand response in any capacity generation mechanism is key for cost-efficiency and climate-smart solutions.
mr president, energy consumption is increasingly becoming electricity consumption.
at the same time, fortunately, europe is increasingly generating renewable electricity from wind and solar.
and a third type is needed for long-term storage, where electricity is converted into another form of energy that can then be stored almost indefinitely.
the window to achieving a viable and sustainable future for all is closing.
the effects of global warming are already being felt.
the green deal as a whole has put us on a new course towards a climate-resilient future, but our goals are still under scientific advice.
but we still have a chance, we have a chance to limit warming to a level that is humanly and economically sustainable, because we know what we have to do.
the commission proposal is based strongly on medium-term structural reforms, sustainable investment and flexibility.
the extension of the adjustment cycle that would be implemented in this commission proposal does not necessarily guarantee debt sustainability in the longer term and for that reason i think this proposal is a little lax.
the same applies to reducing emissions.
we're offered a 50 percent reduction in emissions, some of the others 20 to 30 percent.
the magic of funding the climate-social fund, we have greater responsibilities there too.
in addition, this red iii further strengthens the use of primary wood for energy production.
i think this report highlights very well how we have tackled the worst of the energy crisis and managed to cut off a large share of imports from russia and fossil fuels.
some member states have replaced their dependency on russian fossil fuels with other fossil fuels, and we need to look at long-term solutions in order to achieve our goals in renewable energy by 2030. if we are looking at the increase to 42.5% of the eu energy mix by 2030, that will require a much faster growth that in the coming years than we’ve had in the past.
so, my question is, what does the commission do to make sure that all the member states are on board in this, and also including energy efficiency, which is key to reducing dependency on fossil fuels and gas, especially in heating and cooling.
mr president, at the dubai climate summit we are doing a global inventory of actions and their impact for the first time to see if we have the right ambition.
global climate finance for the south is a problem to solve, but the un climate work itself also requires reform.
the position of the ceo of the oil company is not the chairman of the climate summit no indeed when our greatest challenges are deciding on fossil subsides and ending fossils.
we'll stop funding the destruction, and then we'll have enough money to do climate action.
climate decisions should be made based on scientific advice, and this should be a strong message for the eu to negotiate.
mr president, the eu has broad climate targets, but we are not currently promoting the green transition in technology and production as we should.
i believe that products developed from wood raw materials can replace a large number of non-renewable raw materials in the future.
on the other side, calling legal obligations to protect people or the environment a burden is more of an ideological statement.
at the same time, we absolutely need rules to protect consumers and workers, to protect the environment, to protect our health.
by defining the position of the strategic project for the mining project, the commission can in practice guide the member state towards the dismantling of environmental and nature protection objectives and areas.
we cannot achieve a green transition at the expense of nature and environmental objectives in a situation where, according to the national natural panel, 70% of the original nature has already been destroyed in a country like finland.
of course, as former minister for the environment, i know that we must balance so that we can also open new mines in finland and sweden.
but it must be done in cooperation with the strictest environmental requirements and we cannot ignore environmental protection issues or the rights of the sami people.
it is much better now to make sure that we focus on resource reuse and better circulation of raw materials rather than creating even more environmental problems in our nature.
it's a really, really useless meeting because there's no such thing as a climate emergency.
this is a picture of the reality of climate action in general.
we are constantly taking significant steps towards a carbon neutral world, but the understanding of how urgent we are has not yet reached all decision-makers.
the fund is designed to help developing countries that are worst affected by climate change.
the financing promised is still far from necessary, but the establishment of the fund is part of the historical responsibility of the industrialized countries that have historically been the most responsible for emissions.
it is also exciting to triple the capacity of renewable energy sources and to double energy efficiency by 2030. however, every agreement is only as good as its execution.
we still have two gaps: a gap between the objectives of the paris agreement and the commitments made by the countries on climate change and a gap between the commitments made by the countries and the actual actions taken by them.
the honourable member, if you expected the dubai climate summit to resolve the climate crisis, you were deeply disappointed.
if you were to expect even small flashlights that we could do enough climate action, you could see them too.
if you look at the resolution, there are strong goals for what should be done, and the pandemic climate crisis is real.
we must ensure that the tripling of renewable energy is achieved and that energy efficiency doubles.