green puritanism, you too, with the punishment of taxes, the closing of our nuclear power, the increase in energy prices to kill our industry.
don't let that chance go to waste.
the original aim of the proposal was to create a fair and stable business environment for companies, but the ep would greatly increase the administrative burden on the corporate sector by extending the range of companies required to report.
asia, legitimately asking for more respect and consideration, has sent back european and american waste, thus forcing us to review our economic and ecological model, which is at best unfair and unfair.
the waste trade market represents more than €80 billion, with 182 million tonnes traded worldwide.
the waste is mostly sent to poor or developing countries, where recycling is not guaranteed, where workers' rights are violated, where traffickers and exploiters of all kinds abound.
this waste is often dumped in landfills or dumped into the sea, adding a little more pollution to our oceans.
they are transported by container ships, which are responsible for a large proportion of greenhouse gas emissions.
this is the reality of waste transfers and a world without borders, which is absurd.
we hope that the european union will become aware of the urgency of these relocations in order to respond to the industrial and climate emergency we are experiencing.
harro on immigrants, blamed for all the ills, anti-muslim obsession, climate denial.
greener, not by less work and science, but on the contrary by relying, as you do, on the best of european engineering and in particular on the nuclear industry, which allows us to count on - and will allow us to count on - a safer, decarbonised energy tomorrow, not by managing our impotence, by allocating the quotas of illegal migrants whom we have not been able to prevent from arriving in europe, but on the contrary by controlling our borders.
we should work towards devising long—term sustainable solutions to the structural causes of these shortages.
this situation is not sustainable.
we strongly condemn russia’s continued strikes on civilian targets in ukraine, including energy infrastructure.
in recent months, we have seen an intensification of russian air strikes against energy and water infrastructure, hitting also residential buildings.
let me recall that the aim of this emergency assistance is to provide short-term financial relief, financing ukraine’s immediate needs, rehabilitation of critical infrastructure and initial support towards sustainable post-war reconstruction, with a view to supporting ukraine on its path towards european integration.
so, cheap energy, a competitive environment, a high level of skills and support for innovation are the foundations of our european industrial success.
we need to speed up the issuing of permits for renewable energy and production sites.
we must succeed in the ecological transition, but how can we do that if we do not produce more on our own soil?
98%, and this is quite a remarkable figure, 98%, of photovoltaic panels cannot be produced in china today, in line with our european environmental policy.
these are the stories of thousands of businessmen all over europe, bakers, butchers, artisans, restaurateurs, traders, who are overwhelmed by the explosion in energy bills: costs multiplied by two, three, four, five, sometimes ten and even putting the key under the door.
they do not demand to be kept alive by public aid, but to be able to live from their work with the dignity of those who have dared, risked, undertaken to build a sustainable activity.
they demand that they pay for their energy at a fair, regulated price, guaranteed by a strategic state that protects its economic interests.
for several months now, your refusal to challenge the rules of the european energy market and in particular the artificial price fixing for electricity over gas prices has left our companies open to speculation by global predators.
and in the face of inflation and the energy crisis, europe must be on the move, otherwise our car manufacturers will be moving across the atlantic.
let's not waste that momentum.
commissioner, it is time to combat this climate of impunity and the sickening rhetoric and fantasies of the far right.
azerbaijan insists that there is no blockade, just the spontaneous presence of environmental activists.
the eu takes good note of the fact that some ngos continue to report that more needs to be done to create an enabling environment for the full exercise of freedom of expression.
to reject them, particularly in the present context, is to contribute even more to calling into question this segment - already potentially more sustainable, not only from a social but also from an environmental point of view.
in most member states, there is available capacity within the capacity ceilings set by the common fisheries policy, and this could very well be used to increase the capacity of vessels in order to improve safety, living and working conditions on board or for more energy efficient propulsion systems.
but my main message today is that the commission fully supports all initiatives to strengthen the role of small—scale and coastal fishers in parallel to our continuous and joint efforts to further reduce the environmental impact of those fisheries.
why can't we finance the modernisation of an outdated and unsafe fleet, especially in the outermost regions, with a view to improving safety, living conditions on board and energy efficiency?
why is this fleet, which is also the most sustainable fleet in existence, not taken into account when allocating quotas, such as for bluefin tuna or tuna?
in this context, the coordinated development of policies and measures aimed at mitigating the risks of the activity, increasing the safety and comfort of fishermen on board, while seeking to develop technological solutions that allow small vessels to adapt to the requirements of reducing the carbon footprint, is essential.
the limitation of gross tonnage for these vessels therefore needs to be rethought and adapted to the reality of the sector, the need to improve safety and working conditions for fishermen, the need to accommodate technical changes more compatible with the environmental sustainability of the vessels, and the very need of the small-scale fishing industry to attract something so difficult but so important, namely the new generations of male and female fishermen.
quotas, licenses, zero waste, no waste.
madam president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as a fisherman, i am particularly sensitive to the problem of small-scale, artisanal, traditional and sustainable fishing, as it is practised in the five overseas departments.
the truth is that our traditional fishing, celebrated for its virtues on the fishery resource or its limited environmental impact, is agonizing.
of course, the failure to renew the fleet is not the only factor: the difficulty of the trade and its low attractiveness, the lack of training and the ageing of fishermen, the weakness of self-financing and access to credit, illegal fishing, pollution of coastal waters with chlordecone, sargassum that destroys engines in the west indies and the poor organization of the sector in some territories also contribute to the disappearance of this activity.
they’ve faced many challenges in recent years through covid, brexit and the energy crisis – no different than any other business.
ensuring generational renewal of well-trained fishers is essential and will be one of the key tasks we will need to address jointly in the coming years, and will only succeed if the sector and in particular the general working environment is perceived as attractive, and if hard working conditions and especially safety are improved.
there is also a wide offer available to promote training and skills to enable fishers to fish in a safer environment.
the reduction of the environmental impact can also be achieved, and must be achieved, at the expense of fleet renewal, which this commission rejects.
in third countries, food security and the sustainability of coastal communities depend on it.
they are a must and an urgency, and these cannot be successful, fair and sustainable without an effective dialogue between workers and employers.
social dialogue is all the more important to cope with the current challenges of high energy prices and their impact on business costs and wage adequacy.
social dialogue is close to our hearts, and we must use the full potential of transnational industrial relations to help deliver in a fair and sustainable manner the changes that our economies urgently need, while enhancing the competitiveness and the good functioning of the european economy and specifically of the internal market.
and these works councils, when they work, are an undeniable asset for the well-being of employees, but also for the ecological transition and the economic results of companies.
our partner countries must be empowered to walk their own path to a sustainable future, with clean energy and a good economy, with a perspective for the millions of boys and girls who want to go to school, who want to learn something to lead their lives - a good life in their respective countries - and to contribute to their own personal success.
that means we need to develop sustainability strategies, and we need to fight the glaring inequalities with this instrument - inequalities that are growing.
i’m referring to the eradication of poverty, the very purpose of development cooperation, and indeed the first of the sustainable development goals.
this was finally achieved, albeit with a guilty delay, a little over a year ago, with the launch of the global gateway initiative, an ambitious project to develop infrastructure and connectivity in the digital, energy and mobility sectors.
yet, to tackle a penetration plan as aggressive as the belt and road initiative, which today comes to involve more than 65 nations, more than half the world's population and three-quarters of the world's energy reserves and one-third of global gross domestic product, we need clarity of intent, speed of execution, adequate budgets and effective financial levers.
for hungary, the opening of the gateway to the western balkans is of paramount importance, as it strengthens cooperation in the energy sector.
the global gateway initiative offers long—term sustainable solutions to address joint priorities together with our partners.
the global gateway initiative, with its €300 billion budget and its focus areas, in particular digital, energy, transport, health and research, is a key instrument for cooperation, diplomacy and economic affirmation of the union, and for affirming a multilateral and sustainable vision of development.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the union's policies on the environment, including on the impact of the union's policies on the environment, on the impact of the union's policies on the environment and on the impact of the union's policies on the environment.
these 300 billion should be used to implement projects to combat climate change, for energy transitions, for collective intelligence, for local initiatives.
madam president, commissioner, repowereu: behind this new symbol is the end of europe's energy dependence.
the end of this dependence must be achieved in the interests of the green transition and in line with the objectives we have set ourselves to make our continent more sustainable.
through the inclusion of repowereu chapters in national recovery and resilience plans, we are empowering national governments with additional investments to improve energy efficiency, develop renewable energy and tackle energy poverty.
we are creating the conditions for no family, no business to be without energy on european soil, for this winter and beyond.
first, you take revenge on those associations that defend the environment and human rights rather than the profits of big business.
the next item is the report by mr christophe grudler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the union programme for secure connectivity for the period 2023-2027 (com (2022) 0057 c9-0045/2022 2022/0039 cod)) (a9-0249/2022).
under our leadership, these european iris satellites will be a global example of space and environmental sustainability.
it also cuts off any initiative by car manufacturers, locking them into an 'all-electric' logic that will not benefit consumers or the environment.
these new standards, which are particularly burdensome for our industries, will not change the climate, and you know that very well.
your doctrine, which is to measure pollution only at the exit of the exhaust pipes, is an ecological fraud.
this helps to hide under the carpet all the pollution from the extraction of rare metals, which are necessary for the design of batteries, but, obviously, it suits you well.
so your selfish project is to shift pollution from inner cities to the third world.
so reject this text, relaunch innovation on hydrogen and synthetic fuel, and stop making the car manufacturer the scapegoat for the ecological transition.
the ecological transition cannot be like the chinese cultural revolution.
this is all the less justified in the case of motorists, since it is known that cars are not the main cause of pollution.
your approach once again shows a decidedly ideological background, the same one that led you to excommunicate nuclear energy, which is decarbonised.
this excommunication has sealed europe's energy dependence and this blindness is now leading our countries into a crisis whose price we have not yet paid.
ensuring the largest consensus possible is fundamental to ensuring successful reforms and sustainable growth.
more europe in public procurement means no more naivety: any competitor must respect our common environmental and social standards.
our environmental and social standards must be the basis of our future trade agreements.
more europe in our industrial strategy means voting quickly on the text on net-zero emission industry, but above all working on the reform of the energy market and i call on the groups to commit quickly to examining this text.
more europe means more cohesion and efficiency in our common market, and carbon neutrality.
the united states has now converted to our vision of the energy transition, and we must put all the means at our disposal.
but i want to believe that within the epp delegations there is some responsibility: responsibility for our industries, responsibility for our energy transition, responsibility for our jobs of tomorrow.
the first is the absence of any plan to massively support nuclear power, which we know is one of the most effective ways of achieving energy independence and decarbonising our economy.
if this price-setting mechanism is not seriously challenged, they will close down or move to the united states or china, where energy prices are cheap.
the nuclear master plan, the reform of the european energy market, the buy european act: these are the three main lines of an ambitious economic policy to reconnect with power, prosperity and sovereignty.
we promise businesses and jobs on european soil, but we do not have the means to give priority to european businesses over our strategic sectors of digital technology, medicine, agriculture and, in particular, renewable energy.
we need it for the energy transition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for years we have let the whole world benefit from our subsidies in the name of fighting global warming.
well, ladies and gentlemen, we are concerned because many of the texts voted on here will weaken our economy without saving the climate in any way.
the european union wants to reach zero emissions by 2050. there is a very simple way to achieve this: zero production, zero creation, zero energy, zero prosperity, zero work, zero food, zero sovereignty also, zero freedom, zero life.
the same people who always vote against nuclear energy and make us buy gas by selling us wind turbines.
this is what is needed for the climate and for europe today.
secondly, let us give ourselves sustainable means to invest, sustainably and together, in strategic priorities for europe.
in fact, these words are empty, for example, i repeat, ‘take into account european standards of judicial appointments’ or ‘improve the physical safety and working environment of journalists’, these recommendations too general to react.
yesterday it was covid-19, today it is the rise in energy prices that has caused public debts to continue to rise in many of our countries.
ms schnabel, of the ecb's executive board, said in january 2023: 'we need a better understanding of how climate change will affect the financial sector, and vice versa; for this, the development of high-quality data will be key.'
that said, i think we can still be proud in europe of having a central bank, the central bank that is moving the fastest in the environmental field.
because my second question relates to the concern of many economists, who believe that the irrational and exorbitant preference for renewable energy will have marked inflationary effects.
efforts that must be sustainable and in line with the green deal.
we must ensure that the implementation of this strategy takes account of territorial realities and environmental requirements.
such a scenario is not desirable from an economic, geopolitical or ecological point of view.
it also has a terrible cost to society: fertilisers affect our health, natural resources, air, water, climate, biodiversity and the inherent fertility of soils.
in the medium and long term, we should encourage manufacturers to develop sustainable production based on the ecological transition.
buildings account for 40% of european energy consumption.
energy-efficient buildings are therefore crucial to our ability to combat climate change.
experts say that we could save up to 47 billion cubic metres of russian gas a year in our buildings if we vote for the position we have adopted in the energy committee.
we have to reach our climate goals.
we need to stop sponsoring putin's war by helping citizens renew their energy homes.
the building directive is a test of how serious we are about european energy security, citizens' energy bills and, not least, climate change.
we needed to harness the motivation of citizens to build smarter solutions in this energy crisis that would reduce emissions and help them have a warm and comfortable home.
this would also reduce energy consumption, increase energy security and reduce greenhouse gases.
there is an obsession with the ultimate goal of zero greenhouse gas emissions, and it ignores the reality and a whole series of quality intermediate steps.
there's more paperwork, more red tape, unnecessarily frequent energy certificates, global warming material certificates and so on.
in short, instead of being an incentive for better energy efficiency, this report has become a slap in the face that pushes everything solely to reduce greenhouse gases.
there are many families throughout europe who cannot heat their homes, either because of the rising price of energy or because of the poor quality of the buildings.
this proposal to improve the energy performance of buildings is therefore a key piece for climate justice, for social justice.
this proposal sets mandatory targets for improving the energy performance of existing and new buildings, sets a framework for financial support for this, includes new provisions for adapting buildings to new mobility models, sets certification procedures and declares national plans to ensure that the targets are met.
of course, the building sector has to contribute to our climate goals.
the commission estimates that the building sector accounts for 40% of all co2 emissions.
and so, ladies and gentlemen, i think that we are really going the wrong way with the energy efficiency directive for buildings, which we are going to vote on tomorrow.
i believe that we must not make climate protection against the interests of citizens, but we must take people with us.
we cannot use coercion and prohibition to try to persuade society to fight climate change, but i think we need smarter solutions.
and if you look at what's being pushed in the united states right now with the inflation reduction act, i think that's a much better way to convince people, people, citizens, citizens to invest in energy efficiency here than the way we're doing it.
let me say one more thing: i often hear in the debate that if i do not vote for this directive, i am against climate protection.
we have decided on emissions trading and we have foreseen that the building sector will be included in emissions trading, so that energy in the building sector will be priced.
we already have an energy efficiency directive.
and ladies and gentlemen, everyone knows how much energy prices have skyrocketed in recent months.
we need a european plan to increase the energy efficiency of buildings, and we need a plan that is both achievable, that is also concrete, and that allows, on the one hand, a signal that people are waiting for, they are tired of big bills and they want to have smaller bills.
on the one hand, the measures we will introduce in the new electricity market model and on the other hand, obviously, increasing energy efficiency means lower bills.
but we must be sure, commissioner, that all member states are implementing this directive, in its letter and spirit, and the spirit is this: that no person, no family, whether young families, whether large families, whether pensioners, will be obliged to pay this energy efficiency bill, which can easily exceed eur 10 000 to eur 15 000, and that there will be these measures to create national funds in the member states, european funds that must be allocated so that these families are not made to pay for something they could not afford anyway and that we ensure instead that those who pay can be part of this process of increasing energy efficiency.
through its climate law, europe has set itself a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030. in 2020, europe has already succeeded in reducing its emissions by 31% compared to 1990. now we need another 24 percent in less than seven years.
the current building stock of the european union accounts for 36% of greenhouse gas emissions: more than a third.
we urgently need to reduce the co2 emissions from our buildings - obviously, taking into account the reality of each country.
so it is time to get serious about this energy-efficient renovation of buildings.
i call on you to give your very broad support to this text which is essential to reduce our co2 emissions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we are going to vote on a directive on the energy efficiency of buildings.
yes, colleagues, we all want to reduce carbon emissions.
in the united states, the experience of large-scale campaigns shows that energy savings are three times less than expected for costs twice as high as expected.
the university of cambridge showed a few weeks ago that, five years after the work, energy consumption had not even decreased.
the only undeniable consequence for the environment, ladies and gentlemen, is the explosion in the use of the necessary materials.
it is this logic that has created the ecological crisis and we understand why, unfortunately, large industrial interests are supporting this project, of course.
but as it happens, those who want to regulate the lives of europeans even in their private space are also generally those who fight, for example, nuclear energy.
we have tabled an amendment to ensure that a zero-emission building is also a building that benefits from this energy source among others.
eu citizens also have a strong interest in knowing how eu policies and eu—funded projects affect the environment.
in 2021, i therefore suggested that the european investment bank provide greater public information on the environmental implications of the projects it finances.
as much as you may see the eu's climate targets rising, our efforts will be swallowed up by the growth of the rest of the world.
do you want to make the eu a totally carbon-free continent?
ambition must be to relocate our industries massively, promote the latest nuclear and renewable technologies on our soil and control our supply chains.
it is by reducing our imported emissions that we will make progress and it is by protecting our model that we will lead by example.
in a geopolitical context marked by climate change, its acceleration, the consequences of covid and the war in ukraine, and at a time when the role of the european union is often questioned by some partners on the international stage, the text proposes concrete recommendations, including the strengthening of coordination mechanisms.
the project is often lacking a strategic vision that would make it a response to the challenges of adaptation to climate change, economic development and even displacement of populations.
mr president, i would like to welcome, commissioner, the adoption on 4 march of the treaty on the conservation of biodiversity beyond exclusive economic zones, and to welcome the commitment of the european commission and several member states, including my own country, france.
does the netherlands want to continue with uncontrolled immigration, burdens, higher energy bills, mounting debt and stifling eu rules?
in this context, the data act that we will vote on today has the potential to be an absolute game changer if it can create a data-agile ecosystem that enables easy access to an almost infinite amount of high quality industrial data.
i believe we should always consider the digitisation of our economies as a holistic challenge, meaning that when introducing new legislation, we should always focus on both users’ and providers’ needs and create a predictable environment that allows the planning of long-term business decisions.
the key question is why they are not controlled by european giants within a european innovation ecosystem.
but this winter, the competitiveness of the european industry and economy have been a great cause of political discussion due to high energy prices, the war on the continent and the upheaval of the global supply chains.
repair services are there to employ more people as we will reduce waste and material use by better repair possibilities.
the war on our borders in ukraine, the food and energy security of our countries, our economic competitiveness must remain our only concerns.
in the face of the energy crisis, we continue to act as europeans: creating new supply lines, reinvesting in new green energy sources, creating a social climate fund.
because to break critical dependencies, to feed our fellow citizens, to meet the challenge of climate change, to leave no one behind, we need to engage in dialogue, to make progress, but above all, to act together.
it is also good that we have started to discuss the economic sustainability of the eu in the long term, especially bearing in mind that government debt-to-gdp ratios are historically high.
member states should be able to return to a sustainable budgetary approach eventually.
the european semester remains a very important framework to ensure effective policy coordination across four dimensions: environmental sustainability, productivity, fairness and macroeconomic stability.
all of these are key for the economic prosperity and sustainable competitiveness of our union.
our post-covid recovery is being challenged at various levels and this requires policy measures that are supportive of inclusive and sustainable growth.
rising inflation, interest rates and energy prices have left many companies and households struggling.
but even if the peak of inflation appears to be behind us, consumers and businesses still struggle with high energy and food prices, and inflationary pressures remain.
there are also structural challenges we need to tackle the eu’s energy dependence, the green and digital transitions, skills shortages and the need to strengthen our overall competitiveness.
in recent months, member states and the commission have worked to coordinate targeted and affordable measures to cushion the impact of the energy crisis on vulnerable households and the most impacted businesses, while safeguarding public finances and the single market.
last week, the commission presented its orientations for fiscal policy for 2024. after three years of sizeable fiscal support, the focus should now be on improving debt sustainability.
prudent fiscal policy will support monetary policy in the current high-inflation environment.
to be specific, we invite member states to set fiscal targets that ensure the respect of the 3% of gdp deficit reference value and ensure a path for credible continuous debt reduction over keeping it at sustainable levels.
on that basis in spring, the commission will propose fiscal recommendations with a quantitative requirement as well as qualitative guidance on investment and energy measures.
as regards the measures to cushion the impact of high energy prices on households and businesses remaining measures should be better targeted on those most affected.
moreover, as energy prices head lower, governments should move to phasing out most of the support measures, starting with the least targeted ones.
finally, all member states should preserve investment to boost sustainable and inclusive growth in line with the common eu priorities, namely in the field of fair transitions.
the co-legislators have acted rapidly to phase out the eu’s dependence on russian fossil fuels, promote zero carbon sources and strengthen energy resilience.
now that the repower eu regulation has come into force, we are leveraging the recovery and resilience facility to achieve a secure, affordable and sustainable supply of energy.
this important debate on the european semester takes indeed place in an uncertain, as already mentioned, in an uncertain and challenging environment.
through the green deal industrial plan, we will further accelerate our work on skills for the green transition, including digital skills with the final aim of supporting competitive and sustainable industrial policies in the eu and creating quality jobs.
the revisions of the recovery and resilience plans in the context of repowereu give all member states an opportunity to boost green skills and reskill our workforce, and also importantly to address the causes of energy poverty.
in an environment of rising interest rates and high inflation, we must pursue a socially responsible, climate-neutral transformation of our economy.
we need a sustained and significant increase in investment in climate-neutral and digital transformation.
these rules, which will be revised in the coming months, need to be simplified, pragmatic and ambitious to meet today's challenges of strategic autonomy and the ecological and digital transition, in a context of major uncertainty.
in response to the energy crisis linked to the war in ukraine and to achieve our carbon neutrality targets, we are creating the social climate fund.
to move towards action rooted in social progress and the fight against climate change.
too many people are struggling every day, putting all of their energy into a fight for survival.
and for those on welfare, the energy bill is no longer payable.
dear commissioner, we should remain committed to our climate goals and also to the principles of the free market and competition.
this past year and a half, when we have been living under extraordinary circumstances – with high prices of energy because of the pandemic, and then, of course, because of the market manipulation by russia, and then because of the aggression of russia against ukraine – show us that we need to have instruments to intervene when there is clearly market manipulation and or high volatility.
in your opinion, will emd strike a balance between building a market, incentivising investments and low carbon solutions on one hand, and reducing volatility on the other hand?
and next week we will discuss electricity market design and i do hope that parliament will treat electricity market design as a priority file because we don’t have time to waste.
but the only lasting solution, the only way how we can actually decrease our electricity prices in a sustainable way is to accelerate renewables.
mr president, energy security is an important pillar in achieving our objective as the european union of strategic autonomy.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the energy efficiency of the european union.
this was accompanied by energy savings measures and by accelerating our renewables deployment.
we will replace a significant part of lost russian gas volumes by replacing gas in power generation with renewables, by replacing gas in the building sector with heat pumps, and by simply prioritising energy savings where we can.
and by diversifying our energy sources, we will also take care of our security of supply and, in a broader context, our independence.
i would expect you to answer whether the authoritarian erdogan regime has aligned itself with our policies regarding energy security.
– me and my services we do have several energy dialogues with important energy partners, but not with turkey because we don’t have a council mandate for that.
so we don’t have energy dialogue with turkey.
mr president, commissioner, we are here in a debate on the energy security of the union and therefore also, in the background, on the security of the european union.
in addition, some ten tons of waste are sent to siberia, russia, every year.
there is a real push for nuclear energy in european legislation today.
this is evident in the current discussions on hydrogen and in the directive on the reform of the energy market.
it may even be seen emerging in the context of renewable energy or in projects such as barmar, a true trojan horse for nuclear energy.
and how can we answer this question of energy security in the context in which we find ourselves?
you do not address the waste issue, and there is also another threat to energy security in relation to nuclear, which is the water issue.
i therefore put the question to you again: how can we secure energy supplies and energy production in the european union in the context of an energy model based on nuclear energy?
but taking an axe to workers’ rights, environmental standards and social protection risks ripping out the very heart of our trade and cooperation agreement.
in its absence, citizens in northern ireland have struggled to access health care and financial support for energy bills.
but because of the institutions not fully functioning, young people and women are also among those seriously affected by the lack of access to basic care and by inflated energy prices.
first, lower prices in the supply of energy raw materials.
we supported long-term contracts for decarbonised energy.
a challenge we can only overcome by focusing on three essential factors: a very strong investment in human capital, clean and low-cost energy and finally a new business strategy that continues to make us world leaders.
however, we are seeing the council today reopen discussions and political agreements already concluded on very important measures to combat climate change, such as the end of combustion engines by 2035. and there are many other examples of how some governments and some groups in this house are systematically trying to reduce the ambition in the deployment of the green deal measures.
but now is not the time to be divided, now is the time to maintain the political unity and ambition that will allow us to move forward in the ecological transformation and to be leaders in more competitive industries, that is, sustainable industries.
madam president, madam president von der leyen, mr president charles michel, at a time when the state of energy emergency is being declared throughout europe, the fundamental freedom of movement of our fellow citizens is being called into question more than ever.
after the carbon taxes that triggered the anger of the yellow vests in france, after the malus of all kinds, after the privatisation of the motorways which led to the massive increase in toll prices, europe and the ayatollahs of punitive ecology have invented a new persecution against them: low emission zones that prohibit large agglomerations to a majority of vehicles.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the new technologies.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
the chairwoman of the committee told us about the ira, about her meeting with joe biden, but she didn't mention the willow project that joe biden approved in alaska, when there is an urgent need to protect the climate and the arctic.
this is how europe gets out of all these strategic dependencies that make us weaker, energy, medicines, fertilisers or even photovoltaic panels.
finally, the long term is being re-introduced into the energy strategies we need to invest in our future.
the energy crisis we are experiencing is not just a commercial issue, it is first and foremost an industrial issue.
and if we want to overcome it, we have to produce, produce more, produce better, produce carbon-free electricity and to do that, use all sources of carbon-free energy and especially, of course, nuclear.
we hope that in the net-zero industry act which will be published soon, nuclear energy will have its place, not only in the form, commissioner, of smrs, but also through large-scale production, because that is what we need.
those who are fighting against this energy today, whether in the commission or in parliament, like the colleagues who voted yesterday against the inclusion of nuclear energy in the energy transition of buildings, are also fighting against the environment, against our sovereignty, against our independence, against our democracies.
that there is no magic money to finance our social services, our collective projects and the preservation of our common goods, including the environment.
we believe that the ecological transition will be successful and successful only if it is an economic opportunity and not just a moral imperative for our future generations.
cheap fossil energy is no more.
if we take one of the necessary building blocks that is the building block of the economy of tomorrow, there is no possibility, at the national level, to create today digital giants and energy transition giants.
our industrial competitiveness has declined because of energy costs.
it is at european level that we must invest massively in renewable energy or building insulation.
the third pillar is the ecological transition.
those who invent the sustainable, carbon-free economic model will have the rest of the world as their customers.
access to finance, agile approval processes, skills, innovation, investment, all of that is needed, but if we don't improve the business environment, if we don't relieve companies of the bureaucracy, then we're trying in vain.
when we talk about jobs, we greens are building the conditions for a just ecological transition and training for these sustainable jobs.
inclusion of the most vulnerable, training for a green, sustainable economy that respects people and nature.
we must once again produce in europe so that we are no longer dependent on unreliable or belligerent states, as is the case with china for our medicines and rare materials, or russia, of course, for our fertilisers and energy supplies.
we need to innovate processes and standards, build safe and accessible data mines, transform our mobility, energy generation, consumption habits and encourage the changes people make.
we were the first to react and act, especially in the face of climate change.
well, they're implementing policies on climate change; they are implementing strong industrial policies, the ones we advocated from the beginning.
concurrently, the eu has adopted an ambitious industrial strategy aimed at countering global climate warming while achieving a radical digital transformation.
the shift in interest rates has created a new environment.
we have to stay alert to this new environment.
however, the possible difficulties this environment may create for banks’ balance sheets are not new.
but more insidiously, as several major american bosses, including bernie marcus, founder of the home depot department store chain, have also said, it is also explained by the choice of the svb and a few other banks to make investments by prioritizing not profitability and security for shareholders, but topics that are not in principle, such as global warming or diversity.
we must not waste our financial support, our economic support.
what a sadness, what a waste for tunisia, the cradle of the arab spring, to have been at the mercy of a regime for too long that has taken hostage the historic democratic transition launched by its people in 2011. the eu must be much more firm in the face of these authoritarian excesses, by ceasing to finance this regime.
madam president, to save bees and farmers, and i would add consumers, we must reduce pesticides, which requires replacing them with agro-ecological techniques such as crop mixing and extended rotation to limit the development of pests; restoring the bush to promote useful predators; biocontrol to promote the natural enemies of pests and using plant biopesticides or pheromone compounds, or service plants to control insects and parasitic fungi or weeds.
yet it is the survival of the entire ecosystem that depends on it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what this european citizens' initiative and others before it demands and demonstrates is that citizens are attentive to the issues of climate, biodiversity, health, food sovereignty and a decent wage for farmers.
mr president, commissioner, in the southern hemisphere, more than 3 billion people live under the constant threat of climate change.
the question of resilience, of resistance to climate change is not just a question of survival, but it's also a question of money.
the bridgetown agenda has strong proposals to unlock access to the billions of euros of investment needed to build this climate resilience.
we will then have the obligation, the obligation to move forward together, to share solutions, to support local initiatives as close to the ground as possible to fight against this infernal spiral of climate change.
mr president, commissioner, the barbados agenda has the advantage of underlining the obvious unsustainability of a system which confronts some of the poorest countries in the world, such as barbados and, more recently, pakistan, with the consequences of environmental disruptions for which they are in no way responsible.
this is why we must quickly tax international capital movements which are totally detrimental to resilient societies and sustainable territories.
in the face of the ultra-liberal drift and the radical ecological approach that many here advocate, we propose an alternative approach.
improving animal welfare results in better animal health and consequently can help safeguard biodiversity.
two environmental activists in a coma, between life and death.
it is, since we were talking about energy, a mandatory step for the manufacture of wind turbines and photovoltaic panels, which the european union has almost made the only pillars of its energy transition.
for example, the very concrete case of the west guyana power plant, a very innovative project, consisting in the creation of a ground-based photovoltaic plant to supply energy to an area around saint-laurent-du-maroni.
the company behind the project is a pioneer in the field of hydrogen from renewable sources.
this technique meets 100% of the european criteria in terms of green transition and energy independence.
it is curious to see this schizophrenia for the transition and renewable energies, here, for the bidding and the confrontation, as only the eco-terrorists who recalled it on saturday in sainte-soline, there, know how to do.
poverty and inequality are increasing and progress, along with the wealth created being confiscated by the hands of a few, has brought all kinds of risks, including industrial disasters, accidents of life, threats to the environment, and so on.
if a product is likely to cause a health or environmental disaster, do we need to be certain that it is so before we can take action?
biodiversity, the conservation of ecosystems, as well as indigenous populations must be defended at all costs.
we said: we are not going to go through with this and we have fought very hard to make the trade policy and the tsd chapter (on trade and sustainable development) in the trade agreement more sustainable.
you cannot, on the one hand, have a tough climate policy for your own european union and allow all those products on our market that just drive that deforestation.
i am a strong supporter of further tightening on products in the future, but this is a very important first step to ensure that our trade policy is made more sustainable.
it's a huge step forward for the world's forests, the climate, biodiversity, but also for human rights and, it should be remembered, the regulation of a mad economy.
in two years, some forests will have reached an ecological point of no return.
unfortunately, it is faced with enormous contradictions and serves as a cover for the european commission's harmful environmental activities.
for years, the european union has been multiplying trade agreements with countries around the world against the interests of the environment.
in the face of this threat, we must categorically reject all those commercial logic which destroys people, natural resources and, more broadly, the environment.
in return, europe must preserve forests by ensuring rational exploitation that will guarantee the sustainability of all natural ecosystems.
mr president, forests, particularly the large tropical and subtropical forests, which are mostly located in developing countries, are ecosystems essential to the balance of the planet and to the existence of mankind, influencing the water cycle, the weather regulation and as a guarantor of biodiversity.
the protection of forest ecosystems should safeguard, promote and encourage models of participatory and community management and exploitation, such as the portuguese baldios, promote sustainable production without deforestation, support small and medium-sized producers with better prices paid for production and regulate international trade.
we need to promote revitalization, restoration of forests and conservation of diversity and climate improvement.
for example, when we pass legislation on energy efficiency in buildings and ban the use of fossil fuel energy, we are effectively banning gas heating, and the people who are poorer and live in these forested areas need to deal with their heating, and so they often use wood.
we are simply aware of the major impact of deforestation on the fight against climate change, and i therefore welcome this agreement.
we need to find partners around the world to enforce these environmental standards.
the vote will take place on wednesday, 19 april 2023. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the joint debate on the report by peter liese, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec on a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the union, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec on a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the union, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec on a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the union, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec on a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the union and on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec on a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the union (com (2015) 0205/209 - c05209-014 (cod05209-0227)) and directive 2003/87/ec on a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the union (com (2015) 0205/2021-0209 - c05205/209-014 (cod02) and c05205/209-0209-0209-022 (cod02090) and on the proposal for a proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the committee on the environment, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending of the european parliament and of the council on a directive 2003/87/ec on a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system for greenhouse gas emission allowances trading within the union, greenhouse gas emission of the union, and public health and public health and public health
i have to say that i am not in favour of this.
this flood disaster was one of many signs that climate change is no longer just affecting the people of the small islands in the pacific, but has unfortunately reached us.
emissions trading is the core element of this package, and ets 1 alone will deliver 25 times as much co2 reduction as the controversial car co2 regulation for our 2030 target.
the message is clear: everyone who is committed to climate action - private individuals and companies - can contribute their ideas and will benefit.
that's why we need protection against carbon leakage.
i am very, very grateful that we have been able to reach a compromise with many from the scientific community, environmental organizations and business associations, which is even more ambitious than the commission's proposal, because it includes process emissions, but which is also more socially balanced than what was originally on the table.
we have increased the social fund for climate considerably compared to the council.
and, much more importantly, we have agreed to an obligation on the member states that the other funds, which are about twice as large as the social fund for climate action, must also be spent in a targeted way and that social aspects must be taken into account.
many said we have crisis, it's no time for climate action.
to get rid of the dependence from russia and others, to keep the prices under control in the long term and to fight climate change, we need to get rid of fossil fuels and the ets is the main tool.
mr president, this debate will end with a historic vote because climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity and therefore requires great ambition.
we have an agreement on the table that addresses important aspects for european industry, that addresses important social aspects and above all that maintains the ambition to fight the effects of climate change.
and, as we know, the effects are not just environmental.
just as the pandemic was not just a medical illness but brought with it social symptoms, so too climate change is capable of bringing a storm to our families, our workers, our smallest enterprises - those we regard as the social foundations of the european economy.
the social climate fund is the product of a year and a half of intensive negotiations and wide consultation.
in the social climate fund we have an investment of eur 86.
we'll see long-term investments like solar panels, better insulation and more energy efficiency.
we will see more sustainable transport - investments that continue to deliver benefits for our citizens, that cut energy consumption, that cut emissions and pollution, and that also cut electricity bills.
to conclude, we have a significant social achievement, a multi-billion-dollar investment fund that will ensure that the climate transition is truly a social one.
– mr president, as co-rapporteur – david, again, thank you –of the social climate fund, am i proud of the agreement reached?
and i thank, in particular, the whole team of shadows, both of the environment and the employment committees, as well as the representatives of the budget committee, who fought their ground very hard.
we ensure that the fund kicks in before the extension of the ets does and that the majority of funding is spent as structural measures and investments for building renovation and zero- and low-emission transport, which will of course have the biggest climate and environmental impact.
high energy prices are still keeping europeans awake at night, and the social impact of this climate transition is much bigger than this limited fund.
to address this, member states and the eu level need to work hand in hand, and spending from our european budget should be much more focused on real priorities, including a fair climate transition for all but that, i admit, is a discussion for the next budget.
in all, together, ets, cbam and the social climate fund form the core – or, as a christian democrat, i might say the holy trinity – of the ‘fit for 55’ package.
well, let me say the following, and i was a bit surprised to see our economic and financial commissioner in this climate debate, but you’re from italy, so you’re from like me, from a seafaring nation historically, let me say that this deal is the compass.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is clearly a global challenge and has already affected the lives of people on every continent, and it's very clear that global action and cooperation was needed to mitigate the effects of climate change.
when we talk about the aviation sector, emissions from the aviation sector in europe have increased by an average of five per cent per year between 2013 and 2019. while they have, of course, decreased significantly during the covid-19 pandemic, they are projected to continue to rise.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action plan, including the implementation of the paris agreement, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the paris agreement, including the implementation of the paris agreement, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the paris agreement.
from the beginning of our negotiation process, i have stressed the need for concrete and appropriate measures to reduce aviation emissions in order to comply with both european climate law and the paris agreement commitments.
with the ets aviation report, we are aligning the aviation sector with our climate goals.
we all know we need to focus on our climate goals, but we also can't let industry take all the burden.
we also wanted tangible solutions that reflect a balance between our climate ambitions and supporting industry in this transition, especially taking into account the current circumstances.
i'm happy that we've been able to provide a concrete tool to help decarbonize the sector by allocating over 20 million emission units that will be available when sustainable aviation fuels are used.
at the moment, of course, the abolition of free allowances was not the solution, and that is why we have taken a decision to abolish free allowances in 2026. i want to mention non-co2 emissions as one important topic in this report, since they cover two-thirds of aviation emissions.
it was agreed that a new system for the monitoring, reporting and verification of non-co2 emissions would be introduced.
as for scope, when we talk about reducing emissions, i want to emphasize the need for a stronger corsia that is fit for purpose and that has to be part of the solution.
and that's why we're putting more pressure on icao to ensure that corsia becomes a successful part of our solutions, because we can't be alone and in this context we need to act together in terms of achieving climate goals.
ladies and gentlemen, i want to emphasize once again that we are delivering on our climate pledges, but we are taking into account the real possibilities and we are keeping our industry in mind in this regard.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must achieve the climate objectives gradually, firmly and with sufficient financial resources to ensure the inclusion and territorial, economic and social cohesion of all territories.
the prr and prrs must be linked up with the partnership agreements and also with funds such as the social climate fund, because this objective is transversal.
i would like to end with a request: the social climate fund must be part of, must be integrated into the next multiannual financial framework.
my dear colleagues, we have not only promised the europeans climate neutrality, we have also promised them a recovery plan whose debt would not be borne by households, but by the big polluters, foreign co2 importers and all those who do not pay their fair share of taxes.
it is urgent that the revenue from the border carbon tax and the carbon market be allocated to the european budget.
the agreements discussed today, together with the rest of the ‘fit for 55’ package, will fully deliver on the climate law commitments and put the eu on track to become the first climate—neutral continent by 2050. they form an ambitious and coherent package, which will also give us the means to ensure a socially fair transition and make sure that no one will be left behind.
the reinforced emissions trading system extended to the maritime sector will strengthen our domestic carbon pricing policy, helping us drive investments into decarbonisation, including for aviation.
the separate ets covering buildings and road transport will allow reducing emissions in high emitting sectors.
the revenues from this separate ets will fund the social climate fund, which will help member states addressing the social impact of the transition.
the carbon border adjustment mechanism, by putting a fair price of carbon on imported products, will prevent that the eu increased ambition is undermined by carbon intensive goods produced outside the eu and incentivise our international partners to implement decarbonisation policies.
emissions trading is the centrepiece of european climate policy.
we put a price on carbon.
it will now be strengthened to reduce emissions by 62 % by 2030 compared with 2005, extended to maritime transport and the size and scope of its innovation and modernisation funds will be increased.
as part of the compromise, the commission agrees in a statement to implement a number of measures to further enhance the integrity and transparency of the european carbon market.
and there is another key point of the european way of tackling climate change.
we all know that while the poorest and most vulnerable people contribute the least to the crisis, they bear the brunt of climate change impacts.
this is why, with the reviewed ets, member states will spend the entirety of their ets revenues on climate projects and to address social aspects of the transition.
the eu carbon border adjustment mechanism will be a landmark tool to put a fair price, equal to the price paid by eu producers, on the carbon emitted during the production of carbon-intensive goods that are entering in the eu.
the eu is the first jurisdiction in the world to put in place such a breakthrough climate measure at its borders.
it is already having a positive impact globally, as a growing number of jurisdictions are considering putting a price on carbon.
cbam is a wto-compliant climate instrument to support our increased green ambition in an efficient way.
on ets aviation, the agreement brings major advantages, including financial support for airlines using sustainable aviation fuels, a monitoring, reporting and verification system for non—co2 emissions, and more transparency of emissions data for international flights.
for example, we will increase even further the predictability of the price development in cases that the average carbon price over a period of two consecutive months should exceed a level of eur 45. we are confident that this and other safeguards, such as the initial injection of additional volumes into the market or the automatic triggers from the market stability reserve are relevant mechanisms to protect citizens while reducing fossil fuels allowances.
and, of course, another key element is the social climate fund.
it will address the social impact of the transition on vulnerable households, transport users and micro—enterprises, in particular citizens in energy or transport poverty.
it will mobilise eur 86.7 billion between 26 and 32. the commission is making three statements on the social climate fund.
last, there is a link between the social climate fund and the energy efficiency directive with regard to definition of energy poverty.
in the lead for the protection of our planet, of the future of new generations and of the most vulnerable people to climate change.
these big proponents of european business are more eager to 'apply a carbon price to fuels used in road transport or building heating' in general, when it comes to making citizens pay for the efforts that the biggest polluters have not made.
yes, we must reduce and then stop co2 emissions.
the carbon adjustment at the border will help to do that, and i'm glad of that.
we greens say it loud and clear: the ecological transition is not just about greening capitalism by accompanying it with ridiculous social measures.
these rusty bits are only serving to preserve the economic and energy model that has led us to climate catastrophe.
the ecological transition is necessary because on a dead planet, there is no longer any competitiveness or jobs.
by validating the extension of the carbon market to buildings and transport, you will make households pay for the ecological transition.
to those who have no choice but to put gas in their car to go to work, you say: "global warming is your fault.
in this context, the social climate fund is just a bandage on a wooden leg.
fighting global warming, yes, but not by making the workers and the most vulnerable households pay for the ecological transition.
we in france are well placed to know that hitting workers at the wallet under the guise of fighting global warming is counterproductive and creates social anger.
be careful, colleagues, not to add social injustice to climate irresponsibility.
beware, ladies and gentlemen, because if you decide that european workers are to pay the bill for the ecological transition, you may well find the yellow vest i am showing you as a warning on all the roundabouts of europe.
in the midst of the energy crisis, you want to raise an already high carbon price and plunge the bill for european companies and households.
the new carbon market is nothing more than yet another tax on all fossil fuels used for heating and road transport, which will hit the most vulnerable first.
we have reduced our emissions by one third in 15 years, in particular through nuclear power, and we continue to innovate.
the proposed carbon border adjustment mechanism is not a protection and sovereignty measure.
when this parliament was elected in 2019, it was after hundreds of thousands of young people had taken to the streets demanding that we do more, that we do everything we can to turn up the heat on climate action.
the left has long called for tougher measures, both at swedish and eu level, to deal with the climate.
we demand that those who pollute the most are the ones who contribute the most to climate change, because climate change must be fair if we are to survive.
we demand parallel investments in people and in climate change.
and this fit for 55, the eu's climate package, is necessary.
the new instruments are the climate tariffs, the tightening of the emissions trading system and the requirements for shipping and air traffic.
mr president, dear colleagues, commissioner gentiloni – he’s leaving – today’s legislative package is, as we all understand, the cornerstone in order to address our 2030 goal by reducing at least 55 % of greenhouse gas emissions without leaving anyone behind.
the second aspect is the specific facility we launched, the european social climate fund, with eur 86.7 billion.
the european climate fund is an investment and protection instrument which provides targeted support to vulnerable households, micro enterprises and transport users that are particularly affected by the energy and transport poverty.
member states will have to submit social climate plans which will cover temporary direct income support to tackle the increase in road transport and heating fuel prices and also long lasting structural measures and investment in the area of building renovation, for instance, or decarbonisation solutions, etc.
the implementation of the ‘fit for 55’ package is another clear message to putin, but not only to him: that europe is a global actor, ready and pioneer in the global market committed to tackling climate crisis.
mr president, in our battle to achieve carbon neutrality, no one will be left behind.
in our fight to achieve carbon neutrality, no territory and no outermost region will be left behind.
in our fight, it's about ecological transition and social justice.
the creation of the social climate fund is a proof of this.
energy cheques, renovation bonuses, aid for the purchase of electric vehicles, financial support for sustainable public transport - these are some of the concrete measures that the social climate fund will finance.
we will not forget that they are the fossil-diggers of the climate.
we will continue our fight for ecological transition and social justice.
we are therefore finally going to endorse the core of the climate package and, thanks to these texts, europe is facing the absolutely historic challenge of climate change.
this climate package is both ambitious and realistic, and the creation of a carbon border adjustment mechanism is a testament to this.
we made this ecological barrier a campaign commitment in my delegation and we have kept that promise.
we have been committed to this for many years because we cannot impose drastic environmental standards on european producers while supplying products which do not meet these standards.
it is therefore both a measure in favour of the ecological transition and a measure of social justice which will protect us from environmental dumping.
it shows that the single market, if it is adaptable, can be a powerful political and environmental tool.
i'm talking to the emissions trading system.
the european emissions trading system is rightly at the heart of the fit for 55 package.
that creates the incentive we need to invest more in climate action.
i think this is the most important tool we have to achieve the climate goals.
the compromise we have reached shows that we want to make the fight against climate change with people and businesses, not against them.
the revised emissions trading system is ambitious, but i believe it also leaves industry, in particular, a lot of room to breathe.
we have many energy-intensive industries in europe too: steel, aluminium, chemicals, paper, glass.
all these energy-intensive industries have huge electricity demands and now bear the double burden of higher electricity prices and the additional costs of carbon pricing.
on the one hand, there is a climate emergency which we must combat as vigorously as possible.
citizens care about the environment, but at the same time they cannot afford to take on more burdens.
we see them going beyond the buzzwords of europe, and expecting direct help in their pockets to overcome environmental challenges together.
what we promised in the socialist manifesto in 2019 has become a reality with the social climate fund.
this is not only essential for workers, but also for the most climate-vulnerable living in the most remote areas and on europe's islands.
as a workers' movement, we will be united in this march towards the greatest environmental ambition to see that everyone is part of it, and no one is left behind.
green environmental transition, with a red heart of socialist justice.
mr president, four texts, four texts to speed up our climate action.
but as the ipcc calls for us to achieve carbon neutrality by 2040 and we claim we want to leave no one behind, the question is: are we there?
i have only one minute to talk to you about the expansion of the carbon market to transport and housing.
your proposal is to raise the cost of heating when energy poverty explodes and inflation runs out; the cost of transport from 2027 onwards, when many people are still forced to use their thermal cars for lack of alternative and when free allowances will be maintained for industry until 2036. and by a market mechanism by definition unstable and volatile, responding to the law of supply and demand, when transparency and democracy should be the key words.
the reality is that the way for the vast majority of citizens to reduce their emissions is through public policies, from land use planning to building renovation, and through our ability to better regulate the private sector.
yes, we need a price for carbon, but a fair and democratic price.
by voting for the creation of the carbon adjustment mechanism at the border, we will finally see the protection mechanism we have been hoping for for a long time come into being.
finally, europe is emerging from its naivete and environmental policy is not just about imposing increasingly complicated rules on those who produce in europe, while opening our markets to the wider world without restriction.
finally, we will ensure that those who import into europe are subject to the same rules and the same carbon contribution.
what a waste of time these last decades have been, what a waste of time we have seen jobs destroyed, value destroyed on our own continent.
this was the promise we made during the european campaign, that of an ecological barrier.
the commission is also proposing to introduce a real carbon barrier tomorrow, which will enable all the world's producers to decarbonise in order to protect our environment.
mr president, on 26 september 2022, the energy supply and thus the competitiveness of european industries was under attack by a foreign power, which sabotaged the nord stream pipelines.
josep borrell said: 'any deliberate disruption of europe's energy infrastructure is totally unacceptable and will be met with a strong response.
the american journalist seymour hersh, pulitzer prize winner, clearly accused the united states of this sabotage in his investigation, because the attack on nord stream is in fact sabotage, sabotage of the european energy market in a time of conflict.
i would like to say that i have nothing to learn from a political party which has been methodically building up our european dependencies over the last ten years, in the industrial, energy and diplomatic fields, and this systematically, including with the members of your respective governments.
it is time to break out of our dependencies, to produce more and better in europe, to guarantee our safe and sustainable access to critical raw materials, to protect our strategic infrastructure.
i agree with my colleagues who spoke earlier about the importance of energy storage.
and indeed, energy storage should be one of the pillars of an efficient energy system if we really want to build it on renewable energy.
but with electricity and other forms of energy, it's much more difficult.
and the declining power in stable sources will pose an increasing challenge to operators responsible for balancing and operating energy systems safely.
renewable energy is also not possible without a well-developed energy storage system.
and then we'll have a stable system, when we're not just talking about energy generation and energy storage, but also, of course, the networks, without which energy cannot reach consumers.
mr president, commissioner, we are in the midst of a global energy crisis.
the causes are many, but one thing is certain: to be independent of imported fossil fuels and to stop global warming, we need much more renewable energy.
this is of course accompanied by a strengthening of our energy storage capacity, as renewable energy is by nature intermittent.
energy storage is indeed a key issue in the energy transition.
we have long since moved away from greek mythology, but on the subject of energy, as on many others, some wisdom should still be of value to us.
so while energy reserves and storage are essential, it is the poor and ideological energy policies of countries like germany and france that have led us to the present situation.
by stopping or neglecting the nuclear industry, these countries have endangered the electricity supply and contributed to the rise in energy prices.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, energy storage is essential if we are to realise the full potential of renewable energy.
increasing the capacity to produce electricity from renewable sources is not enough.
we must also invest in technologies that reduce grid congestion and increase the flexibility of the energy system.
we need to accelerate the pace of deployment of storage systems to meet climate targets and rapidly reduce our reliance on fossil fuels.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have built a european electricity and energy network and we are continuing to work towards reducing emissions and yet safely supplying energy and electricity to all.
energy stocks are an important topic today because it is also possible that, alongside renewable investment, their lack could become a bottleneck in the transition to clean electricity systems.
we believe that renewable electricity will increase everywhere, and because its supply varies, the energy system will need batteries and accumulators alongside it, and also heat storage will reduce emissions.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europe will have 42.5% of its energy come from renewable sources by 2030. this is a goal that is almost enshrined in the renewable energy directive and soon in this house, and that we must respect if we want to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. storage is essential if we are to be able to use our renewable energies to their full potential - i was going to say without losing a single electron, without losing a single molecule, which is difficult, as we know, for the storage of electricity.
'the best energy is the one we do not consume', they say.
for me, the best energy is the one we don't waste, because we still need energy to run our economy.
europe needs to strengthen its energy system to better integrate local, renewable and non-fossil energy sources.
decarbonisation, integration, storage and flexibility: these are, in my view, the key words of europe's energy future.
regulation and monitoring of crypto-asset markets, including new common rules on supervision, consumer protection and safeguards on the environmental impacts of crypto-assets, including cryptocurrencies, are urgent and necessary.
the economic potential of the emerging financial ecosystem and its global character require that the rules of the common values of the european partnership be applied to it, in particular in protecting people, businesses and institutions and in combating market manipulation, crime, blackmail and the unmeasured and uncompensated impacts of co2 emissions.
for many, the situation is really dramatic and there are companies that are moving to the united states because energy is cheaper there and because joe biden is giving massive subsidies.
another urgent need: to fight climate change, we need to insulate all our houses, invest in public transport, help our farmers.
to respond to the social crisis and the climate crisis at the same time, we need budget, much more budget.
you say climate is your priority.
my group regrets that we cannot go any further, but economic, environmental and geopolitical urgencies are certainly the priority.
it is the new generations who are asking us for quick decisions, without vetoes, on the crucial issues of social rights, climate rights, tax justice, civil rights, institutional change to make europe stronger.
we must stop thinking that the economy, the environment and agriculture are three enemies.
we will not succeed in climate change without the economy any more than we will succeed in climate change without agriculture.
the price is there, and it is important for many citizens, but the quality is also important, and farmers cannot be blamed, because if there is one sector of the economy that is suffering from climate change, madam president, it is farmers.
they are the ones who will no longer be able to produce if climate change makes the fields infertile.
so let's think about them too when we talk about climate change.
the forever pollution project, a european consortium of journalists, recently revealed that 17,000 industrial sites in europe are highly contaminated and that 21,500 more could be if we would only bother to analyse the pollution there.
this means that, while we must ban these products, given their persistence, we must in any case clean up the waste.
at their worst they are pyramid schemes, are used by criminal gangs for money laundering or defrauding working people, and they can waste huge amounts of energy for no purpose.
crypto—assets are a threat to financial stability, to consumers, to the environment, and at their most extreme, to the functioning of a democratic society.
we need to continue cooperating at the level of fatf and also things like, for instance, the regulation of the impact of an of environment of cryptocurrencies will need at the end to have a solution at the international level.
they were accused of fraudulently reducing the pollutant emissions of their combustion engines during type-approval tests.
the increasingly unrealistic environmental standards in brussels have finally forced these manufacturers to take the fall.
the preservation of the health of europeans and the fight against pollution are commendable, but the means employed are still out of touch with reality, arbitrary and unjust.
today, they are forced to switch to electricity, and this by geographically displacing pollution generated by the extraction of rare earths, which are needed for the manufacture of batteries.
we are therefore looking forward to the debate on the pollution generated by the manufacture of electric batteries: pollution of watercourses, air and soil, in addition to pollution which sometimes seriously affects other continents.
but the european union will turn a blind eye, probably thinking that there is good pollution and bad pollution.
human health is directly linked to environmental health, and this is where europe has a role to play with development aid.
and a climate of fear and denunciation is created.
it really sends the wrong signal in all directions and massively harms ugandan society with regard to peaceful, secure and sustainable development.
last month’s arbitrary arrest of matiullah wesa is a severe blow to the already dire situation, yet girls’ education is a central key to a country’s sustainable social, democratic and economic development.
mr president, commissioner, our planet is facing a climate time bomb: these are the latest findings of the ipcc scientific report.
today, almost half of humanity lives in areas extremely vulnerable to climate change.
but the ipcc report does more than just raise the alarm about the climate emergency.
the best ally for the climate is not taxes and bans, but scientific progress and technological innovation.
improving the energy performance of buildings, heavy-duty hydrogen transport and techniques for removing co2 from the atmosphere are all tools at our disposal to decarbonise our economies without falling into decline or decline.
there is a country that has achieved its energy transition in just two decades.
france under general de gaulle and president pompidou, which has succeeded in replacing all its coal use with nuclear energy.
the major powers which emit the most greenhouse gases, such as the united states and china, will have to follow the french path.
to reduce our co2 emissions without relying on the atom is to choose the path, once again, of decline and impoverishment.
faced with the vital challenge of preserving the environment in which our civilisation must flourish, neither waiting nor catastrophism can be a viable response.
future generations do not need millenarian incantations about climate, but pragmatic policies that rely on the ingenuity of human genius to ensure a better world tomorrow.
mr president, the ipcc is clear: the climate crisis is abysmal and deadly for humanity and for many other species.
second, it's dangerous to focus on carbon alone.
climate and biodiversity are linked, but they are also linked to other planetary boundaries: the ocean, freshwater, toxic chemicals and rare metals.
third, climate efficiency is based on social justice, given that the richest 16% of the population are responsible for 40% of emissions.
the ipcc's conclusion is that we need to move towards carbon neutrality by 2040. so i ask you, what are we going to do?
mr president, in order to combat global warming, the european union is once again taking binding measures for our people.
it is imposing energy-efficient renovation of buildings in europe, but at the same time it is adopting a free trade agreement with new zealand and pushing forward the one with the mercosur area - two ecological aberrations.
it is sacrificing nuclear energy, which is decarbonised and cheap, and which ensured france's energy independence, which was totally neglected under the presidencies of hollande and macron, to the misfortune of our fellow citizens.
in the end, it is always the same people who drink the wine: the middle and lower classes, who are the victims of ecological dogmas.
yet europe is making considerable efforts to protect the environment, while china, india and the united states are the world's biggest polluters.
their efforts will have no impact on the climate crisis unless other powers and so-called emerging countries do the same.
what gives hope are the texts we voted on this week, which should put the european union on the path to climate neutrality.
the european project is all about building together this response to the climate challenge.
the report also highlights the importance of the regeneration of marine and coastal ecosystems, which is a major contributor to climate change mitigation.
so i ask all our institutions: in our debates, and in particular in the campaign for the forthcoming european elections, what place are we going to give to the changing climate?
mr president, commissioner, sure, the climate crisis i think everyone has to recognize it, but my view (and my view is that of the citizens i represent here) is that it has to be dealt with globally.
we cannot solve the climate crisis by ourselves, europe.
that is why it is imperative that at cop 28 in dubai, the european institutions make it very clear, like the other continents, that they have a strategy to mitigate the climate crisis, and it is clear that we need to see here how we can better manage forests, water and soil.
here, perhaps, additional measures are needed, because deforestation, as we know, has led to natural disasters; but, commissioner, we cannot tackle the climate crisis with more drastic measures, as you said, if we do not also tackle the social crisis.
so here we have to do the whole package, to find measures to support the less developed countries, the poorer regions, so that citizens can support these measures that mitigate the climate crisis, because everybody will want to have a roof, as a colleague here said, with solar power, but will they be able to?
mr president, according to the french minister for the ecological transition, global warming is not a political reality but a natural one.
depoliticizing climate change is a way to avoid responsibility.
the latest ipcc report makes it very clear: climate change is the result of human activities and the political choices made in recent decades, namely those of neoliberalism and support for a totally outdated productivism.
not acting on climate is also not acting on social justice.
but there are many in this parliament who, like the french minister, pretend to ignore it, by continuing to give gifts to big business and by placing the burden of the ecological transition on the poorest.
the goals of the reform framework are clear: namely, to ensure sustainable fiscal policy by taking a more medium-term and holistic view to reduce high public debt, to promote growth, enhancing reforms and investments, and to strengthen enforcement tools and national ownership.
it is important to keep in mind that there is no trade-off between growth and fiscal sustainability over the medium term.
in other words, sound public finances are a precondition to sustainable growth, and sustainable growth supports the improvement of all fiscal positions.
they aim to bring about a more gradual but steadier reduction in debt levels and to boost sustainable and inclusive growth through investment and reforms.
these should be growth enhancing, supportive of fiscal sustainability and should address the common eu priorities such as the green deal, the european pillar of social rights or the digital decade.
in the face of the post-covid situation, in the face of the energy crisis, in the face of the responses we have to make to inflation, the current rules are no longer appropriate.
we need these common rules to guarantee our monetary union and the sustainability of our finances.
sustainability of the debt is fundamental in the long run, but in parallel we need to strengthen the role of fiscal policy in shifting europe away from its business model, and use public investment to boost changes to the way we run europe and its structural change.
let's take the energy, mr. chancellor.
what are your proposals at european level to make our continent the leading energy provider of tomorrow?
they will be successful not only because of the action of europe and the states, but also because we will provide a favourable, predictable and sustainable framework for our companies to invest in them.
you talk about solidarity, but when you close your last nuclear power stations in the middle of the energy crisis, the bills are getting heavier in all our countries.
and i also regret, and this is my second regret, that most of our energy in this plenary session is being spent on amendments that have nothing to do with the 2021 financial year, but are amendments that are aimed at trying to change our operating rules in a way that is not suitable for this.
in 2023, in france, student unions still expect sustainable development to be a compulsory subject in all courses.
with 14% of young people unemployed or untrained and only 23% of energy employees female, we ecologists are proposing a solidarity and inclusive transition.
and yes, we need a trained and educated population to address digital and sustainable transitions.
with this european year of skills, of course, but above all with the major changes we are making to re-industrialize our continent and to create the jobs of the ecological transition.
we need new skills in construction, in digital, in tourism, in industry, in energy and in transport.
and that's why it's crawling the shelves with brown wrapping paper products with self-invented labeling schemes and printed words that praise the product's sustainability, recyclability and biodegradability.
consumers must be able to see how sustainable the product they are putting in their basket is.
it is impossible to achieve our objectives of the ecological transition without modernising the single market.
that is why we are adapting the single market, to enable consumers to make environmentally friendly choices and to encourage companies to offer them sustainable products.
we also want to guarantee the right to redress, which must become a common practice, and to ensure better consumer information, while encouraging small businesses' sustainability initiatives.
in concrete terms, we will drastically reduce the number of false labels that promote products as sustainable when they are not.
between the definitions that each of them gave to greenwashing, between the difficulties we have in convincing a number of our colleagues to understand that the european internal market will never be the same again with the ecological constraints that are ours.
and we were able to make sure that this greenwashing, which is making what is not sustainable look sustainable, with hypothetical compensatory measures, is actually over.
there are still many texts to be studied to further modernise our market in the direction of sustainability, and we will do so with determination.
'good for the environment', 'green product', 'eco-friendly', '100% recycled materials' - these are all the arguments put on their products by companies, suggesting that they are promoting sustainable consumption.
we can only look at total or shell with their reports and their communication dripping with phony environmental benevolence.
and it is no longer possible, in 2023, given the climate emergency we are going through, to tolerate companies trying to buy a conscience and exonerate themselves with these false environmental arguments.
this text is welcome as a means of empowering consumers to be actors in the ecological transition.
with food price inflation, aid demands are exploding, and operating costs are rising, with rising energy costs in particular.
water must be protected and the pollution of groundwater, oceans and rivers must be taken seriously.
while our farmers suffer from climatic conditions and inflation, environmental standards must be reasonable and adapted to local specificities.
in contrast to your punitive europe, we call for a europe of nations which promotes cooperation between states to combat transfrontier pollution.
it is only by common sense cooperation that we can effectively combat pollution.
the protection of water and the preservation of our environment must not be at the expense of our economy and our farmers.
if we want a sustainable future for future generations, it is imperative that we work together.
they spread and affect organisms sometimes far from the sources of pollution.
an environmental, economic and social risk, commissioner, to the estuary of muros and noia, rich in fish and shellfish.
despite requests to the galician government for measures to enforce the law and to resolve irregularities, despite complaints of injustice and social and political opposition, the galician government authorized, in february of this year, the discharge of 4 million cubic metres of waste water with contaminating effects.
i support the idea that large industry, which is responsible for the increase in water pollution, should financially support member states' efforts to ensure safe water quality for eu citizens.
written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the report by markus pieper, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the renewable energy directive (com(2021)0557 – c9-0329/2021 – 2021/0218(cod)) (a9-0208/2022).
with a view to greater independence and reducing co2, we have raised the renewable energy targets from 30% of the commission's proposal to 42.5%, which is a success of the european parliament.
we give renewable energy the label of paramount public interest and thus the necessary flexibility for permits.
we're increasing the supply of renewable energy, and that's good for energy prices.
it's renewable, and that's a good thing.
increase energy supply by accelerating approval, by opening up technology and by relying on imports, heavily on energy imports.
the member states must make their energy plans clear on the subject of energy imports.
the commission has also taken the initiative of introducing a new system of taxation of energy products.
ladies and gentlemen, we have set the stage for a rapid energy transition.
europe has slowed down in its expansion of renewable energy in global comparison, partly because member states are sticking to rigid support instruments such as decades-old feed-in tariffs.
it is therefore important that this directive stipulates that 5% of the expansion capacity should be above the state of the art, including pilot projects for floating solar cells, wind turbines, river power plants, algae houses, solar roads, hydroelectric plants using energy from sea waves.
we need trans-boundary energy networks and more investment in national grid infrastructure.
we have now, together with the ets, energy efficiency and red legislation, put the heart of the green deal on the road.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion.
on 8 may 2003 we adopted a decision on renewable fuels.
it then led to new negotiations and new decisions, because the share of renewable fuels that we then advocated simply consumed too much forest.
but i fear that we will return to the question of renewable fuels in the coming years a number of times.
your vote approving the renewable energy directive will be key to addressing climate change and europe’s energy security.
first, thanks to the revised renewable target of 42.5%, we will double the renewable share in our energy mix compared to today.
third, we achieved a balanced agreement on the sustainability of bioenergy.
currently, approximately 130gw of renewable projects are waiting to receive a permit in the eu.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, without a real commitment to renewables, the energy transition is not possible.
and this review of the renewable energy directive is proof that we are aware of this fact and that we are willing to act.
that is why i am pleased that we have unanimously adopted this european renewable energy law, which amplifies our ambitions and signals to the world that europe is serious about tackling global warming.
first, with regard to the far right, which does not like renewables and only wants nuclear energy.
and on the other side, to those who say "no" to nuclear and who only want renewable energy.
i tell them they are wrong, because we need both renewable energy and nuclear energy.
to oppose both, or to omit either, is not to be serious about the fight against global warming.
europe must embrace all forms of clean energy, and with my renew europe group we will ensure that this is the case.
for wednesday, the green group has requested that a commission statement on ‘addressing the lack of transparency of pesticide authorisation and the risks for the environment and people’s health’, followed by one round or political group speakers, be added as the last point in the afternoon.
i therefore ask that a statement from the commission and the council on the lack of transparency in authorization of pesticides and their risks to the environment and human health be placed on the agenda.
when so many other studies have denounced the damage this herbicide has done to nature and biodiversity, reauthorizing glyphosate is treason.
it is polluting our environment, soils and water sources.
we have common history and shared challenges: security in the face of russian aggression, safeguarding democracy, upholding rule of law and protecting the environment.
mr president, the world is convulsing, the middle east is burning and the shock wave spreading to europe is adding to the daily tumult of our citizens whose anxiety about finding out their energy bills has never been more palpable.
since the outbreak of the war in ukraine, our continent has been facing an unprecedented energy crisis, plunging our states into difficulties that we could compare to those experienced during the first oil shock in october 73. even if it is no longer the mainstream, the persistent situation and energy prices remain at a worrying level which affects both household purchasing power and the competitiveness of our enterprises.
in this energy crisis, far from your satisfaction, the european union has not been a shield.
this european energy market is the symbol of a technocratic and centralised energy policy.
thanks to the excellence of its nuclear sector, france has all the means to become an energy paradise capable of offering reasonable tariffs to its citizens and of attracting to it all those who want to create, innovate and produce.
this is the future that my movement will defend in the great democratic confrontation on june 9, 2024.
mr president, commissioner, the energy union is certainly a great opportunity for growth and security for our europe.
the renewable energy boom in 2022 is not uniform in all parts of europe.
the commission must put its attention to the member states, the energy communities, renewables, the fight against energy poverty and the efficiency of plants.
the national energy and climate plans must reflect these objectives, otherwise we will all fail.
mr president, commissioner, today we are discussing the 8th state of the energy union report.
on the other hand, when we talk about the energy union, it must be noted that the reform of the electricity market is a step forward.
they reject the possibility for states to set a maximum individual income ceiling for electricity producers and argue that contracts for difference can cover investments in nuclear energy.
significant issues remain to be discussed between the council and parliament, such as the push for the 15% target for interconnections, a necessary step towards an integrated energy market.
mr president, commissioner, the conclusions of the report on the state of the energy union in 2023 were expected.
they show that we have been able to respond to the energy crisis caused by the war in ukraine by dampening prices and tomorrow by lowering them, thanks to our european electricity market, which is the only useful bulwark to fight rising prices.
in less than two years, we have adapted repowereu and the renewable energy directive to allow wind and solar to exceed fossil-based electricity generation for the first time.
we must support the deployment of all decarbonised energy, including nuclear energy.
all the energy that contributes to our climate goals and strategic autonomy is good to take.
the irrational preference for renewable energy causes energy prices to inflate in a structural way.
the technical dead ends that are being made, particularly on nuclear micro-centric plants, but also on clean gas, which could well be the energy of the 21st century, but also on smart electricity grids, risk to penalize the competitiveness of our companies and also the prices paid for energy by our households.
the basis for competition must be re-established and the benefits of states which, like portugal or spain, regain their independence from european energy prices, which are subsidies to countries which have made the wrong choices, must be assessed.
then also we had news that, despite the fact that the two sides could not come to an agreement on the steel and aluminium tariffs or broadening the understanding of the critical materials, so important for climate change and our future industries, that they will continue the negotiations.
we must not waste much time: in less than a year we can have an administration in washington that is indifferent or less committed to the european union.
we used to be too dependent on our energy partners.
so, here i want to say that the summit resulted in important progress towards a global arrangement on sustainable steel and aluminium, and also critical minerals agreement.
i also want to mention, under the list of projects, the clean energy incentives dialogue, which is also connected with the inflation reduction act, as you know.
the european union and the united states face enormous challenges: the war in ukraine, the crisis in the middle east, climate change and the energy transition, to name but a few.
the pollution rights on the european carbon market that have existed since 2003 are they european?
the carbon tax at the borders is european, right?
with this proposal and in view of the urgency of paying the debt of the recovery and resilience plan, we have a solution that does not penalise european citizens, a solution that also helps to achieve the policy objectives in the areas of environmental and fiscal justice.
congratulations to the european commission for having made the proposal, for having implemented it, for having a set of three new own resources, based on the emission allowance market, the carbon market and a statistical revenue, an existing resource for multinationals.
and then we must have revenue, own resources, which also help not only tax justice, fair competition, such as the carbon border adjustment mechanism, but which, at the same time, also allow these new resources to achieve global environmental objectives and therefore the emission licence market and therefore the carbon border adjustment mechanism.
to recall, the commission’s proposal of 20 june this year includes amendments for ets and cbam own resources, reflecting the sectoral legislation adopted and the new environment.
nextgenerationeu, ukraine, gaza, enlargement, strategic autonomy, immigration, support for businesses, young people and farmers, investments in new energy... are needs of the present.
it is the own resources that will define the reality of the european union of tomorrow: a club of some 30 united nations for the smallest common denominator, or finally a strong geopolitical, industrial and ecological entity.
and no one to wonder if the choice of dubai, the city that is anti-ecological in its own right, was relevant.
we are constantly talking about a just and equitable transition, but the truth is that our people see it as a punishment while their countries finance the ecological transition of the world.
this cop will be a failure as long as it refuses to tackle commercial globalism, to advocate localism and low-carbon technologies.
this cop will go down in history if it ends with artificialisation, with uniformity and with standardisation of our responses to climate change.
of course, nuclear power and its net zero emissions must be restarted.
the fight against climate change must be undertaken, but the fight against population adaptation must also be undertaken.
we must find the diversity of our practices and know-how in our territories, this is the localist path to ecological progress.
climate justice and human rights must be a common struggle.
– madam president, honourable members, thank you not only for your contributions, but also for being truly a formidable force for good and a formidable force for action whenever it is the extremely important topic of climate action that is at stake.
does it make the bar even harder to attain for climate action?
third, i think it was peter liese but also others who said that, on the one hand, europe needs to take a lot of responsibility, given our affluence, given where we stand in terms of pro kopf emissions, but that actually should be bridged with the fact that others cannot hide behind the concepts of the past and should need to take responsibility.
there is no room for new coal power; we need to move as quickly as possible to a decarbonised power system; we need to get rid of – and i’ve said it before – any sort of fossil-fuel subsidies other than those addressing energy poverty or a just transition.
we already know that our current approach has failed to keep our planetary boundaries and to stay within the 1.5 degree global warming target.
world leaders are now expected, if ever, to take drastic action and commit to halting climate change.
the united arab emirates, as one of the world's largest oil producers, is not a place of great confidence at the climate conference.
the debate is on the situation under the paris climate agreement.
aid for climate-damaging projects must be re-allocated to promote the green transition.
it is good that the countries with the highest emissions compensate with the loss and damage fund under discussion in dubai for those countries that are really suffering from the catastrophes caused by climate change.
– the 28th conference of the parties (cop28) to the un framework convention on climate change will be held in dubai, united arab emirates (uae), from 30 november to 12 december 2023. the conference will conclude the first global stocktaking of climate action under the paris agreement, a two-year process to review progress and outline the way forward.
at the same time, cop28 will be for those looking to tackle the pressing climate change challenges of today and tomorrow.
it is committed to bringing together global leaders and policymakers across the public, private, and non-profit sectors to further climate action.
joying on the road to cop28, where we’re helping drive the green transition and fostering resilience across these sectors to create a more sustainable, prosperous world.
it’s the ‘year of sustainability’ in the uae, and the ep delegation is gearing up to lead key discussions to accelerate shared solutions that could help us collectively reach net zero and meet sustainability goals.
the agenda calls into question the report by christian ehler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the framework for measures to strengthen the european eco-system for the production of net-emission technologies (net-emission industry regulation) (com (2023) 0161 - c9-0062/2023 - 2023/0081 (cod)) (a9-0343/2023)
the report is not yet available.
the commission presented the green deal at the beginning of the legislative term, which combines a great climate ambition which i think we share in a large part, but also the question of how to link the european economy and the jobs involved and the social acceptance associated with it.
the americans are going with us on the road to climate change.
this is not a conflict of social or environmental obligations.
we must give net-zero technologies the opportunity to find an attractive environment in europe.
we do not have to do anything appealing in general, but we are proposing in this parliament to create net-zero industrial valleys in europe, to approve them more quickly, to set financial conditions, to encourage innovation, to deregulate, to remove obstacles so that we can be the continent that is most economically, most innovative in tackling the challenge of climate change, but also that is leading europe's economy, jobs and our societies into the future.
transformation of the economy to low emission and sustainable use of resources requires a lot of changes, and certainly includes transformation costs.
madam president, mr commissioner, we must do everything we can to achieve our climate objectives.
this will require stricter criteria for awarding public procurement (whether social or environmental) so that our european companies are no longer at a disadvantage.
only in this way, as europeans, will we be able to keep the pace set from the beginning of the mandate - climate, competitiveness, sovereignty - and all at the same time.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is consulted by the european parliament and the council.
we cannot replace our energy dependencies, which have been seen to be expensive, with technological dependencies (solar panels, electric cars, wind turbines, wind turbines, chemicals, etc.).
these technologies, such as renewable energy, nuclear and alternative fuels, are all essential.
the purpose of this regulation is to give europe the industrial capacity to implement our energy and climate ambitions.
fourthly, we have proposed adjusting access to market conditions to promote sustainability but also resilience objectives, without compromising efforts to deploy clean energy.
many of these points echo the commission's views, particularly those presented in the wind energy package a few weeks ago.
finally, i would like to say a few words about carbon capture and storage.
the climate crisis is acute and the pace of change must increase.
especially when the united states finally starts showing its lead on climate change and is pushing for its inflation-reduction law.
the best way to reduce emissions from the sector with the highest emissions growth is by investing in railways.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for the european union the green transition is not only a strategy to combat climate change, it is also our growth agenda for the coming decades.
in particular, those that are connected to energy, a key pillar of the green transition, such as technologies linked to renewable energy, electrolytic and fuel cells, carbon capture and storage and use, power grid technologies, among many other technologies.
we will only succeed in the fight against climate change if we ensure the successful energy transition, not only by replacing fossil fuels, but also with very significant gains in energy efficiency.
i want to refer to something that i thought was extremely important in this legislative proposal: establishing development hubs for industries that have zero carbon emissions.
that we're talking about batteries, that we're talking about hydrogen, that we're talking about solar panels, that we're talking about processing and using critical or strategic materials that contribute to a zero-carbon industry, that's something that's amazing and it needs to be running as fast as possible.
so here's a very serious approach and it shows that europe has understood and is taking the necessary steps to make everything that is important to us happen - these steps - and to have a european industry that can help us achieve our 2030 climate goals, for 2050. this is an extraordinary thing!
let us produce more in europe the technologies we need to fight global warming.
this is the very dark future that the dogmatism of the conservatives, liberals and social democrats, coupled with the powerful voices of the oil and gas industry, is impose on us, which through fake ngos and real lobbying, are keen to cut their share and make new profits in the new market for carbon capture and storage.
we were going to compete with the ambitions and billions of dollars in the us law on reducing inflation and fighting climate change.
by focusing on existing clean and safe technologies and by drawing up a legislative act to promote the purchase of european products (buy european act), we could nevertheless develop an ambitious european industrial strategy focused on the transition to a net zero economy to both save the climate, guarantee our industrial autonomy and create quality green jobs.
in short, we don't change anything, we emit more and more co2, we destroy the climate a little bit more and we cross our fingers so that in 20 or 30 years, we can store co2 sustainably.
we heard our colleague from the green group explain that the vice of this text was that it relied on energy from the past after warning us of the urgency of global warming.
we agree, of course, with decarbonisation, and of course we believe in the need to move away from production models that have damaged our environment.
but i think we can say together that our fellow environmentalists are not sincere when they talk about global warming.
they are no longer here to answer i am sorry, perhaps other colleagues will also speak but when the green group has a priority on this text to table an amendment to exclude nuclear energy, perhaps it is this energy that our colleague has referred to as the energy of the past, to exclude nuclear energy from this european strategy for decarbonisation.
as you probably know, my colleagues, nuclear power now accounts for 25% of all electricity produced in the european union and is the leading source of decarbonised energy in europe.
to use nuclear weapons when you claim to be defending the climate is actually to show that you do not really believe in the climate emergency.
we have a duty to ensure that we defend the climate with science, with technology, with our engineers, with our technicians, with all those who know that it is in the progress of knowledge that we will save the climate, that we will preserve the environment and not in the regression and decline.
secondly, where public funds are used, social and environmental criteria are much lagged behind.
we must talk about clear terms good work, wages, location guarantees, the highest environmental standards yes, and please also about public control.
we are the most successful continent in environmental and social policy, but these standards must also apply to our partners and not to the detriment of our businesses and households in our internal market.
we also need to think about resilience, sustainability and social goals.
companies that have invested in the climate transition must be recognised and those using forced labour must be banned from participating in european public procurement.
we share the aim of encouraging practices promoting the circular economy, where an informed consumer would first choose to repair a product before replacing it, mainly for the purpose of combating overconsumption and waste and any pollution resulting therefrom.
the commission wants to tackle waste, and this is done by empowering consumers and producers in particular.
mr president, the idea is attractive: to pay farmers to capture carbon on their land through a voluntary, attractive and credible framework.
they will be responsible for the control and maintenance of the carbon sequestered, subject to fine.
this is the first step towards integrating the agricultural world into the european carbon market, one of the last sectors to resist.
finally, this text opens the way to carbon offsetting fraud: the purchase of quotas by multinationals to do greenwashing or even commit fraud.
our farmers are here to feed us, not to use us as a variable for adapting to european climate policy.
once again, we are talking about ecological lobsters without any sense of reality or any scientific basis.
the choice of all-electric cars was already disconnected from industrial, environmental and economic realities.
in short, trying to move pollution from our cities to the third world does not make you an environmentalist or a humanist.
yes, i support the environmental guarantees contained in the agreement, with the mention of the paris agreement and finally with a system of sanctions.
it is only with the reciprocity of environmental and agricultural standards that we will advance, and this agreement shapes them.
who said in 2020: delegating our food, our protection, our ability to care for our environment, deep down, to others, is crazy.
you see, it has no ecological or social meaning.
because, mr caspary, you are right to point out that the french are making the climate argument for imports, but never for exports.
congratulations, colleagues, and stop the bad language that would dare to say that this would accelerate climate chaos, undermine our food autonomy even a little more, subject our farmers to unfair competition and go against the economic sovereignty so much boasted by mr macron.
is it ecologically reasonable to further increase global trade flows with greenhouse gases and various pollutants generated by 40 days at sea?
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
it is with these methods that bureaucrats find themselves banning our camembert boxes because they saw plastic waste on a beach while on holiday in bali.
mr president, everyone agrees with the idea of fighting overconsumption, waste, unnecessary production and in this respect the pursuit of packaging, however short-lived and unnecessary, can only increase the number of people who join.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment, which is intended to help the member states to ensure that the protection of the environment and the environment are protected, is based on the principle of subsidiarity and is based on the principle of equal treatment.
i am of the opinion, as is the majority of my committee, that the objectives of the cap remain appropriate and important, as we have seen during the ongoing war in ukraine, the covid pandemic and also climate change and its impact on the food and energy sectors and the union economy as a whole.
there is nothing that has prevented us from adding new objectives and measures to the agricultural policy reforms in line with the three sustainability aspects: environment, economy and social.
and how will we finance the new common security, climate and innovation challenges at 35?
it will be a union which, having spent a great deal of energy on its own, can act as a bloc to face the world's challenges unitedly.
how can we combine the need for more sustainable economic and production models with the one of reinforcing our defence capabilities?
it is known that these production sites require special precautions, given the hazardous nature of the products produced there, including in relation to the environment.
it is above all welcome and it is this new energy that makes bulgaria a strong european ally, particularly in the concrete support of ukraine in the face of the russian aggressor.
there has often been a form of fatalism in these institutions about some of bulgaria's difficulties in the bloc in the fight against corruption, in the fight against global warming or in the unity of the continent from an international point of view.
i would like to ask you to postpone wiener report, ‘sustainable use of plant protection products’, under rule 200.
ok, we will take that before the vote according to rule 200. now we move to the votes.
these weak growth prospects are not only due to a downturn in the economy or to high energy prices.
in addition to the material burdens which can certainly be discussed in individual cases, the major, single element in this legislative period was the enormous increase in reporting obligations that came with almost every legislative proposal, and with the sustainability reporting and the supply chain responsibility legislation, two very big bureaucratic hammers are coming to our companies.
and if the commission itself presents a cost index, where it describes the costs that companies are being charged and concludes that, for example, sustainability reporting is not yet generating costs this year; i am not sure what the commission is going to do, but i am sure that it will be very helpful to us.
competitiveness is essential to facilitate and accelerate the ecological and digital transitions of the european economy in a world facing increasing geopolitical tension and global strategic competition.
this is an important effort to support our entrepreneurs and businesses, which have faced numerous challenges in recent years, from the pandemic to high inflation and the energy price crisis, alongside wider societal changes such as the twin green and digital transition.
in the new geopolitical context and amidst strong global competition, it is crucial that we look at boosting all factors that drive economic growth and sustainable competitiveness.
we made it clear that these efforts will not undermine our policy objectives, such as tackling the climate crisis.
the less red tape they are faced with, the more our businesses, and especially our smes, can focus on building sustainable growth.
third, we have proposed to postpone the deadline for adoption of the sector-wide european sustainability reporting standards.
legislating is responding to a changing reality due to technological progress to increasing citizen demands or to environmental deterioration.
in the s&d group, we have always advocated balanced and science-based regulation, because it is impossible to guarantee the future competitiveness of the european union unless we commit ourselves to binding commitments and support measures for the technologies of the future and fight to prevent climate disaster.
pushing deregulation to cover up climate denial, no.
on top of that, there are all kinds of reporting obligations like working conditions, climate, gender equality... the list goes on.
colleagues, since you're all playing with your phones, go to the corporate sustainability due diligence directive, or, as we know it here, csddd.
it is characterised in agriculture by environmental standards which we are the only ones in the world to apply and which we dispense to producers outside europe.
but the business world must not be built on an ivory tower, defending as the last of the mohicans a model that is no longer sustainable, neither environmentally, economically, nor socially.
the energy and digital transition is a challenge that we must ride and win together without fear.
we as the european parliament must do our part: the commission has already decided to make a number of proposals for a new directive on the protection of the environment.
the european economy wants to contribute to climate protection.
there are environmental and social laws that regulate everything.
why should taxonomy and csrd be used to reintroduce banking finance when we already have the emissions trading system that guarantees compliance with the co2 targets?
why force people's homes to be cleaned at home when the building industry has just been incorporated into the emissions trading?
we have reporting obligations so that capital can be invested in any instruments that can prove that they are sustainable by producing nuclear energy and natural gas energy.
madam president, europeans are deeply aware of the danger posed by pollinators, a key component of our biodiversity, which is necessary for the reproduction of crops and the maintenance of botanical diversity.
overuse of pesticides, loss of natural habitats and climate change pose major risks to the natural balance in many regions.
the commission has already adopted a resolution on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
michèle rivasi was a woman of commitment, a woman of struggle: for the protection of the environment, for health and for all europeans.
the commission has already made a number of proposals for a new directive on the protection of the environment.
this is what we have done, for example, by imposing a solidarity contribution on the fossil energy giants, because there are tax bases that can no longer be found at national level alone without leaking revenue and activities to other countries.
i am thinking of climate change, of digital giants, of financial transactions, of tax evasion and tax fraud.
more generally, we call for the complete end of the european union's hostility towards nuclear energy.
they were net contributors to the eu budget and were the first to be penalized for european subsidies in the energy sector.
support for small modular nuclear reactors is a first step in the right direction, but it will not be sufficient to ensure our energy independence.
mr president, mr commissioner, the threat to our imports of gallium, the threat to our imports of germanium, the threat to our imports of graphite, the threat to our imports of rare earth oxides: these are examples of our european vulnerabilities, and it is time to end this dependence on critical raw materials with the adoption of this text, in order to diversify cooperation and to accompany our partners in achieving the objective of carbon neutrality.
mr president, the ecological transition will require large quantities of critical raw materials.
the european union needs to be able to supply itself on its own soil and less dependent on third countries in view of social, environmental and human impacts.
i prefer that they be european and, if not, that they respect our environmental and social standards.
this regulation should prevent and reduce the negative impact of critical raw materials on the environment and ensure a safe supply chain for critical raw materials, taking into account the fact that it facilitates the reuse, repair and processing of products.
it should aim to improve the environmental performance of raw materials and to promote recycling activities by all economic operators at all stages of the product life cycle.
this regulation should, accordingly, contribute to the transition to a circular economy and to the smooth functioning of the internal market, while ensuring a high level of environmental protection and respect for human and labour rights.
this regulation should therefore reduce the negative impact of extractive and processing activities on human health and the environment and facilitate the practical application of the waste hierarchy.
it is strategically important that europe builds its own sustainable supply chain for critical raw materials, given the rapidly changing geopolitical context and the high dependence on third countries such as china.
we need ambitious targets to encourage, for example, the extraction of more strategic raw materials from waste products.
the international trade commission has undoubtedly shown a great deal of consensus on where we want our bilateral relations with taiwan to go, relations which are undoubtedly vital for our ecological and digital transition, given that, as is known, taiwan is a world leader in the production of semiconductors and electronic products.
mr president, let us look at taiwan: a democratic state, one that respects the rule of law, one that is committed to an international order based on rules, which aims at a green, sustainable and equitable transition for all.
let us look at taiwan, a country which supplies the vast majority of the electronic components needed for our double ecological and digital transition, a country which is looking to expand its investments abroad, particularly in europe.
the resolution was adopted immediately after the pandemic and in a rapidly growing digital work environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment is therefore not intended to be a basis for the adoption of a directive on the protection of the environment.
hackers try every minute to destroy critical infrastructure like hospitals, energy, water, etc.
against all odds, the european union persists in its free trade policy, without borders, which is devastating to our food, industrial and energy sovereignty.
so we need to ensure energy supplies, we need to ensure cooperation so that we don't have to run out of energy.
ports are not only a logistics hub, a gateway, they are also a crucial link in the sustainable supply chains needed for the green transition.
this is a total war also because it's about destroying ukraine, even when it comes to the ecosystem.
of course, some pollution is obviously the result of war, but some of it is done in an absolutely intentional and planned manner.
there is enormous human, material and environmental damage that the european union is committed to mitigating.
we must use this catastrophe to articulate a sustainable reconstruction, guided by the values of the european union: equality, transparency, co-governance of municipalities and regions.
we must stop to achieve a sustainable, inclusive and beautiful future for ukrainian society after the war.
burning forests, polluted rivers, land infested with mines, bombs and toxic buses 200,000 hectares contaminated for several generations perhaps , and of course the ecological bombardment of the kakhovka dam.
take solar energy for example: just 15 years ago we had some of the leading solar industry in europe.
but the second bet, which was to believe that our european societies, that our european and western leaders were unable to provide a sustainable effort on the medium and long term, that bet, is being won.
the reform of the electricity market was an absolute necessity to meet the inflation of energy prices.
you have also maintained the path set by this parliament on the green transition, with agreements on the completion of the green pact, the restoration of nature, the prohibition of certain emissions dangerous to our health and, most recently, the ecological design of products.
environmental protection is also about protecting indigenous peoples in their environment, as they are the greatest protectors of our biodiversity.
there is no economic, social and sustainable development without respect for the right of peoples to enjoy their lands and natural resources.
in specific terms of environmental conservation, tanzania remarkably protects 43.7% of its vast territory.
and second, the crucial need to preserve the unique serengeti ecosystem, with the world-known migration cycle of wildlife.
the goal of keeping global warming at 1.5 degrees seems unattainable, as the world consumes more fossil fuels every year.
this race seems crazy, and it will not be stopped by the emerging countries, which want their consumer society, or by the industrialized countries, whose famous transition will require even more metals and energy.
the reality is that our citizens want to make efforts for the environment, but without their standard of living being too affected.
the fact that these are organised in a petromonarchy with a ridiculously high carbon footprint, these worldly environmental dinners cannot be a credible answer to climate challenges.
this supposedly climate conference was primarily a venue for international negotiations to resolve the military crisis in the middle east.
once again, the european citizens will be the only ones to bear the burden of climate change, while the carbon balance of our continent is negligible.
the text thus informs the countries of the south that we recognize their right to access energy to meet their development needs in a transition towards decarbonised energy.
this is not just about decarbonising maritime transport or marine energy, but also restoring marine and coastal ecosystems.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it would have been 28 cop before the states finally agreed to tackle the fossil fuel taboo, but without demanding a clear and clear way out of it, since it is the main culprit of climate change.
i would like to sum up: we know that climate change is already irreversible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been to dubai aware of the disasters caused by climate change: floods, heat waves and desertification of our territories.
there was a compromise on the definition of phasing-out, but now it's clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals for a new directive on the environment.
the decision to triple the use of renewable energy and to double energy efficiency is positive.
and that is what unites us as moderate, right-wing and left-wing politicians: saving european citizens from climate change; helping them face these challenges.
after a difficult start, and although we may regret some vague formulations, a political act is being put forward: fossil fuels are the source of the climate crisis and the world must get out of it.
i would also like to draw your attention to another crucial point: for the first time in the history of the cop, 158 countries have agreed on a declaration on sustainable agriculture and food systems.
agriculture and food are strategic areas in the fight against climate change.
mr president, madam commissioner, the sense of responsibility, solidarity: in dubai we had a hard time imposing these two basic elements to win our fight for the climate.
but absolutely everywhere, absolutely everyone knows today that the compression roll of climate change requires us to change our lifestyles immediately.
but for millions of europeans in overseas territories, as for our neighbours of small island states, we are on the front lines and our urgent need is to strengthen international cooperation to save the ocean, to preserve biodiversity and to win the battle of the waters.