sweden, a country that has been at the forefront of the green transition, with renewable energy and nuclear energy, independent of russia, is now announcing power cuts for the people.
today, therefore, we need a genuine european health planning based on the 'one health' approach in the spirit of the european green deal, with the primary concern of protecting citizens from profiteering in times of crisis, war, but above all of climate breakdown and the coming spread of pandemics.
mr president, the uncertain and volatile environment in which we live, created by destabilising factors which are bent on tearing apart the european fabric, requires us today more than ever to strengthen the single european defence and security policy of our union.
european leadership must stop funding and reinforcing the root causes of the refugee crisis, such as war and the climate crisis, and focus on projects that aim at the well-being of people at home.
there's no more time to waste.
in the context of the imperialist war which the ukrainian and russian peoples are paying for with their blood, the european union is stepping up its intervention in ukraine for investments, energy deals and reconstruction worth billions of euros in competition with the united states of america.
now we’re retrofitting it in order to tackle the energy crisis.
we call for a european cycling strategy with the aim of doubling the number of cycling kilometres in europe by 2030. we live in cities that are dangerous to our health, to the environment and to the climate.
better health, reduced traffic congestion and noise pollution, improved air quality, economic growth, as well as other environmental and social benefits.
the european semester must and can therefore promote a new production model based on the needs of the many and on social, environmental and fiscal justice and, of course, the basic goods being in the public domain and under public control.
– prudent fiscal positions and sustainable growth are key pillars of the union’s fiscal strategy.
the measures that the workers, the class trade union movement, are fighting for today are: collective labour agreements, increases in wages and pensions, based on modern needs, abolition of vat on popular consumption goods, special consumption taxes on fuel and energy, cancellation of car loans and debts of popular households to banks and protection of the popular housing from auctions.
this precision and energy dependence of europe must be stopped immediately.
another initiative is the cooperation between greece and egypt, which helps to strengthen renewable energy sources, and i wanted to ask you specifically whether you think countries like greece should be supported when they bring to the european union the energy we need to become independent from natural gas and oil.
the idea is that those most affected by climate change are those least responsible for it and least able to adapt and should not be forced deeper into our debt to pay for the damage we inflicted upon them.
as tropical storms increase in frequency and catastrophic intensity due to climate change, caribbean islands endure billions in damages and are obliged to take on unsustainable debt for humanitarian aid and reconstruction.
this is why we must push for a new climate bretton woods, a radical transformation of the global financial architecture with climate justice at the forefront and debt relief to provide the fiscal space to invest in just transition adaptation and civic protection for those that need it most.
we must also heed the calls of mia mottley to place a loss and damage levy on fossil fuel companies, bearing in mind that, in 2022, total global north to south climate finance was usd 90 billion, which is a quarter of the profits of just six fossil fuel companies, which were usd 360 billion.
by prioritising climate justice, debt cancellation and systemic transformation of the financial system, we cannot build a sustainable and just world for all.
their reduction is crucial, as they are several thousand times stronger than carbon dioxide.
by supporting this report, we have the opportunity to help our climate targets and secure a safe environment.
however, we are not only supporting the environment, but we are also supporting the industry and giving a clear direction.
we support the fundamentals of the compromise text from the committee on environment, public health and food safety (envi), as it is important to give a clear message for this direction to all parts of the industry and provide solid ground for all eu companies, especially the smes.
for the epp, it was important to table very specific amendments – some jointly with renew – to ensure that those who have not yet moved to clean alternatives have the time to do so safely, by taking into consideration the safety concerns, energy efficiency and the priority targets.
i would also like to thank the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) rapporteur, sara skyttedal, for her valuable contribution.
mr president, the fit for55 strategy, the green transition strategy, instead of taking real environmental protection measures, rewards groups for polluting without impact or at some minimal cost, and this is always returned to them as a green subsidy.
even the carcinogenic and hazardous incineration of waste is defiantly included in the european union's green best practices.
with a stronger kke, the people can escalate the struggle for their modern needs, for the protection of the environment, fighting for the conversion of energy, natural resources into social popular property, with central planning in the service of their own popular needs.
those who are least responsible for emissions are exposed to greater damage and losses and have the least opportunity to invest to break free from carbon, energy and transport poverty.
social climate projects must be the fruit and vehicle of genuine consultation, tools of public engagement and the cultivation of energy democracy and climate justice.
so let the member states be very careful to get this money to those who need it most, through structural investment in self-generation, energy upgrading of homes and public low-carbon mass transport.
make no mistake: the social tipping points will crash as well before the rapidly approaching climate tipping points.
to me, it means that climate justice across generations, classes and nations is the only path to adequate climate action.
i am really proud of the change of direction in climate action this mandate has achieved, but we need to do more, faster and better.
it's consumed by high inflation, intolerable precision in food, consumer goods, energy, overpriced rents.
the fight against the interests of the groups requires a real increase in income, the prohibition of the auctioning of popular property, the cancellation of debts, the abolition of vat and excise duties on popular goods, fuel and energy, modern and cheap housing.
the palestinian people's resistance and struggle to stop the massacre in gaza, an end to the illegal occupation, an independent, sustainable palestinian state on the border of 67 with the capital of east jerusalem, next to israel.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a permanent climate crisis.
we must balance the green transition with the socioeconomic conditions in question, as we can cause deindustrialization and energy poverty in ourselves.
because, unfortunately, many countries around the world do not respect the environmental conditions that we apply.
this year's climate change conference is an opportunity for global coordination to implement the paris agreement and i am particularly excited to participate in this mission, as there will also be a greek presence from the ministry of environment and energy and it will highlight both the strategy of prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis and greece's steps on the axes of the energy transition.
because greece is now a hub of energy flexibility in the eastern mediterranean.
we need to secure additional funding for the european union solidarity fund, which supports member states such as greece in dealing with the effects of the climate crisis, and ensure that member states at the external borders of the european union have sufficient resources to deal with migratory flows.
the aim is not hamas, but the abolition of an independent palestinian state, the clearing of gaza from palestinians to make it profitable for the israeli bourgeoisie, a trade and energy transit.
it calls for additional environmental taxation for the people to fund green predatory groups, while giving incentives for green capital investment.
the workers and self-employed farmers must oppose the strategy of the european union, of governments and monopolies, to demand real wage increases, a tax-free limit of €12 000 per child, the abolition of indirect taxes on energy and fuel, vat on consumer goods, to demonstrate in large numbers on 15 december.
a holistic strategy, aimed at enabling them to acquire or rent a home at the lowest possible cost, through specific actions such as loans for housing and using european funds to make use of existing and new private homes, as well as financing massive renovations and energy upgrades of long-term vacant properties.
housing costs have risen sharply from the explosion of accuracy, inflation and energy costs, while incomes remain stuck and the purchasing power of households, particularly low and middle income households, has been significantly reduced.
mr president, mr commissioner, another climate change conference has come to an end.
this time, 200 countries, developed and developing, energy independent and non-energy independent, small and large, agreed that by 2050 we must stop using fossil fuels as a means of energy, and that we must move even faster and emissions beyond carbon dioxide and especially methane should be significantly reduced by 2030. the agreement also involved representatives of children, the elderly, the disabled, indigenous people and groups directly affected by the climate crisis that is present.
so we have an agreement that puts the planet on track to achieve clean zero emissions by 2050. from now on, we must ensure its implementation through implementing instruments such as greece's ambitious national action plan on energy and climate.