in a substantially changed environment, we must work diligently to remove remaining bureaucratic obstacles, while ensuring the highest level of consumer protection.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs pernille weiss, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on shipments of waste and amending regulation (eu) no 1257/2013 and regulation (eu) 2020/1056 (com (2021) 0709 - c9-0426/2021 - 2021/0367cod) (a9-0290/2022).
my thanks go in particular to pernille weiss and her team, together with all the shadow rapporteurs for their very full scrutiny of this proposal for new eu rules on waste shipments.
reducing the eu environmental footprint linked to the export of waste to third countries, building up a robust eu market for waste, going for recycling and addressing waste trafficking, which is one of the most prevalent forms of environmental crime.
stricter controls on our waste exports will make sure that we take responsibility of the waste produced in the eu.
the regulation as a whole has great potential to accelerate the transition to a more circular and climate-neutral economy.
facilitating the shipment of waste for recycling within the eu will help with the decarbonisation of eu industry, as waste reuse and recycling are both far less co2-intensive than the use of primary raw materials.
finally, legal shipments: potentially compromising up to 30% of waste shipments worth 9.5 billion annually.
and we need to step up action on waste trafficking.
the commission will support investigations by member states on transnational crime linked to waste trafficking with the support of the eu anti-fraud office.
i also thank the parliament for highlighting the important links between waste shipments and waste policy in general and climate change mitigation, global sustainable development and labour rights.
so we take note of your call for a stricter approach on the export of plastic waste.
we need to fully assess if a blanket ban on the general export of plastic waste would be necessary and provide a better solution than the measures the commission proposed to achieve our policy objectives.
honourable members, our waste is our responsibility.
letting waste pollute the environment and end up in illegal dumpsters or in our oceans is a real loss of resources which are precious for the eu’s transition to a circular economy.
and this proposal is a decisive move to create the most advanced waste shipment system in the world and bring this system to the digital era, too.
our goal is to make sure that waste generated in the eu is managed in a sustainable way so that it does not harm nature and health, but opens up new opportunities for green growth and innovation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the sensitive discipline we are dealing with, the discipline of waste management and recycling, is one of the most compelling topics in the debate on the future of sustainability, especially from the economic and industrial point of view in europe.
we must - and this is being achieved in this area - encourage the free movement of waste so that those who are able to recover and recycle it in a sustainable way are able to do so.
this is the crucial point on which we have taken the liberty of pointing out that the export of this raw material, rather than this waste, could favour countries which, by treating it in a way that is much less sustainable than in europe, then produce steel which is then sold in europe at very low prices, having been produced without respecting the environmental rules that we respect.
it is very important that, on the specific issue, not so much to create a separate discipline, but because about 60% of the exported waste is exactly of this nature, it is very important that there is a particular attention on this issue, not to reduce the freedom of movement of waste or raw material, but to promote the best sustainable european industry, particularly in the steel sector.
and to this day, so is european waste policy.
so, because we live in one world and pollution in one part of the world affects everyone.
so, because we care about the health and rights of those living in developing countries; and so, because every piece of waste in the european union should be regarded as a resource.
mr president, it was a pleasure for me to negotiate this law, together with pernille and my other colleagues, to achieve the best for our environment and for the health of all citizens, even those living far away from it.
firstly, we will stop the export of plastic waste out of the european union once and for all.
commissioner, this is toxic waste.
it is leading to the alteration of natural habitats, affects biodiversity, reduces the ability of ecosystems to adapt to climate change and has a negative impact on food production and social justice.
secondly, any other waste that goes outside the european union should only go to plants that have the same european standards as ours.
and finally, we are cutting red tape within the european union so that waste, this resource, can move from one country to another in the european union much more easily.
and so, i encourage you tomorrow to join us in voting for the environment, for our health and for the environmental economy.
we have set ambitious goals with this major reform of european waste transfer rules: better protection of the environment and health, and the avoidance of some countries remaining the world's garbage.
and the challenge is great: in 2020, our exports of waste to third countries exceeded 32 million tons.
we added several bricks to the legislative text proposed to us by the commission in november 2021, starting with what is one of my main political battles: the elimination of plastic pollution on the planet.
the end of the export of plastic waste to third countries will be a reality three years after the entry into force of this regulation, four years for the oecd countries.
the fight against plastic pollution, which takes between 100 and 1,000 years to degrade and kills our oceans, is global: it must be total.
there are of course other advances in our text: i am thinking of the outright ban on the export of hazardous waste to third countries (china, india, certain countries on the african continent) or the urgent request to the commission for increased monitoring of waste exported to the oecd countries (the united states, japan, israel, turkey, above all).
as far as waste is concerned, this means tougher conditions for exports - what we do - and better value for money at home, so that this waste becomes a usable and sustainable resource.
the european union is dumping millions of tonnes of plastic waste in countries outside the eu that are totally unable to cope with it.
we know about the giant garbage belts in, for example, turkey, where that plastic waste is buried in the ground or incinerated.
if we burn that plastic waste or put it underground, we create air pollution, we pollute the soil, we emit dangerous substances.
this giant waste problem is our responsibility.
belgium is one of the top ten exporters of plastic waste.
i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to tackle the dumping of waste and its illegal export.
i am very pleased with the cooperation between the various groups and i am glad that we have been able to convince them, in particular, of the following: a ban on exporting all plastic waste outside the eu because: 1) this is the best solution to our plastic problem, 2) we're finally taking our historic responsibility, and 3) it's really an incentive to start using less plastic, to design it better and also to tighten up our recycling capacity.
i am also pleased that all waste treatment plants outside the eu must now meet the same high standards as the european one - something that was not originally in the proposal.
mr president, let us be clear, this debate is taking place less to safeguard the interests of people and the environment, and more to safeguard the interests of a few, a few, who see the waste business as a way to fill their pockets even more.
a market worth tens of billions of euros, which the european union's so-called green policies favour and seek to expand: restricting exports to those with the least economic potential; maintaining the accumulation of profits in the internal market; increasing conditionality and interference with third countries; removing powers from the states, interfering in waste management in accordance with their interests, centralising them in the european commission.
it is the liberalisation of this market which is the driving force and the focus of the proposal, ignoring the limitations and inefficiency of private waste management, but highly effective in maximising profits.
it is profit and not real needs, also from an environmental point of view, that determines that a significant part of waste is directly transferred to landfill, with low multi-material recovery, without favouring reuse or recycling.
this paradigm can only be changed by appropriate regulation and by strengthening the public dimension in waste management.
mr president, commissioner sinkevičius, as i have warned the commission and jaspers on many occasions, waste management in croatia is still done in a very bad way.
bad projects are still approved and they endanger the environment and destroy local communities that host them, since their operational costs are very high.
in the latest case of the šagulje waste management centre, jaspers even allowed the implementation of the project contrary to the already adopted and existing spatial planning documents of counties and cities in croatia.
but the handling and transport of our waste is actually a very crucial part of the success of the internal market.
and that is why it is also important that we now look at these rules on waste transport carefully and thoroughly.
over the last few years, we have become increasingly aware that waste is a resource.
but it is also our responsibility first and foremost, and that is why i am very pleased that mrs weiss' report takes account of the fact that we have to deal with waste differently.
i am very pleased that we are going to strengthen the circular economy and that we are actually tackling special plastic waste.
plastic waste is something we generate in enormous quantities, and it should be the responsibility of the eu itself to deal with the plastic waste we generate.
but it is crucial that we stop having to rely on others to take care of our waste.
but we have a responsibility for our own waste, and that is why i support this report, because it is precisely what it does to ensure that we deal with special plastic waste.
what's happening to this waste?
it's secretly, like in croatia, constantly being taken with other waste to municipal landfills, creating a hill, or in richer countries, that plastic waste is being taken to africa.
the second biggest lie that has been told to the environment is that eliminating single-use plastic bags will reduce plastic waste.
there's been a multiple increase in plastic waste because in many countries, every single apple, every single piece of meat is wrapped in plastic, and we're bringing home 80 percent more plastic than ever.
so i welcome the focus on the issue of defence, on the issue of migration, on the issue of energy: domains that critically affect all of them and are a true test of both european politics and european civilisation.
this strategy should distinguish video games from games of chance, with the additional obligation for member states to create a safe environment for consumers in the field of games of chance as well.
as europe struggles with high inflation rates, an energy crisis and disruptions in food supply chains, the health systems of the member states are under increasing strain due to the rise in respiratory infections.
mr president, commissioner, we are aware of the rise in prices, the rise in energy prices, which have an impact on the rise in food prices.
if you look at inflation, if you look at how much food is contributing to inflation, it's clear that food is actually contributing the most after energy costs.
and what we can do, of course, you know that fertiliser prices, this is the main factor of increase of the agricultural cost, also energy, what you say.
we're aware of the energy costs.
these rising energy prices, the price of fertilisers, and also - it is good to say - some speculation in the markets have led to a rise in prices, and this is reflected and is conditioning especially for the most vulnerable families, and we know that these factors have a huge weight in the household expenditure on food.
that is why, for example, in our group, the s&ds, we have been strongly advocating the creation of packages of measures in what we call a winter solidarity package for families and businesses, and we have also advocated permanent management instruments to support the labour market, limit energy prices, etc.
think of the pandemic, the war in ukraine or the urgent need to mitigate climate change: we have moved towards permanent crisis management.
together with the european commission, we have been looking at how to make a lasting contribution to cope with the eu’s energy crisis.
we will increase our support to renewables, energy efficiency, grids and storage, electric-vehicle charging infrastructure and breakthrough technologies, such as low-carbon hydrogen.
this approach is in line with our ambitions and achievements as the eu climate bank.
in 2021, 51% of eib investments went to climate action and environmental sustainable projects.
another important step in line with our climate bank roadmap is the adoption of our revised transport lending policy last year to ensure that the bank’s activities in the transport sector support eu policies.
climate action and just transition are complimentary goals.
we also revised and adopted our environmental and social sustainability framework as well as our whistleblowing policy in 2021, which also grants protection to these persons.
therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we created eib global, which officially started its operations in january 2022. eib global is a flexible and agile team europe partner that contributes to effective eu external action in response to crises, as well as long-term sustainable solutions.
while the economic effects of the covid-19 pandemic were fading away, russia’s unjustified and unprovoked invasion of ukraine and a resulting energy crisis have presented our societies with extraordinary challenges that require us to respond with decisive and coordinated eu action.
the support of key partners, including the european investment bank, is important for providing and leveraging investments aligned with eu policy priorities, including green and digital transformations that leave no one behind and to boost energy efficiency.
for example, through the repowereu plan, the eu has raised its renewables and energy efficiency targets and put significant resources into achieving them.
the eib group answered our call with its repowereu package from own resources, which adds much needed firepower for an efficient response to the energy crisis.
investeu is already out on the financial market, supporting smes, investments in solar, wind energy, energy efficiency, renewable hydrogen and in the social and skills area.
investeu also allows for innovative ways of supporting promising projects to enable the decarbonisation of the eu economy, such as the eu—catalyst partnership, which brings together the european commission, the eib and the breakthrough energy catalyst in a unique public—private partnership.
externally, many other challenges lie ahead, including climate change, connectivity and the need to achieve an inclusive post-pandemic recovery.
the eib is the biggest creditor in the world and it plays a special importance in over—passing the tumultuous days we live in – here i am referring to the different crises that we are facing, meaning covid measures, the war in ukraine and the global energy crisis.
i also welcome the investeu programme, which will provide the european union with crucial long-term funding by leveraging substantial private and public funds in support of sustainable recovery.
moreover, by implementing 75% of investeu, the eib group’s goal is to generate new investments mainly for sustainable infrastructure, research, innovation, digitalisation, smes, access to finance, social investments and skills.
for all this, i believe it is necessary for the european investment bank to further develop technical assistance in the regions that need it most, also to continue to prioritise investments in health infrastructure to reduce inequalities between countries, to support investments in energy transition and autonomy, both in the european union but also in candidate countries that face major problems, such as the republic of moldova, to invest in food security, agriculture and rural areas.
because ebi helps wind and solar companies, but the real energy is nuclear.
the current energy crisis in europe shows that nuclear energy is necessary.
but indeed, i think if the global gateway will build infrastructure, which is essential for the development of economies, if it will create jobs, then of course if we look, for example, at many projects which are aimed at building up sustainable agriculture and food chains like the one on agricultural value chains in africa, i think all these are proof of the fact that global gateway supports all the sdgs, and this is its main focus.
third, we need to continue to communicate the message tirelessly to our partner countries that global gateway offers high quality, sustainable investment that will support their own plans and objectives for recovery and sustainable growth following the crisis of recent years.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on investment practices of sustainable investment funds by jonás fernández and paul tang, on behalf of the s&d group (o-000052/2022 – b9-0007/23) (2023/2516(rsp)).
this is simply not green, and selling them as such runs counter to the sustainable finance disclosure regulations and these funds should be punished.
i remember when the commission launched the sustainable finance action plan in 2018 they were entering uncharted territories.
because by letting national supervisors fill the gap in a sustainable finance framework, barriers are being constructed in europe.
and for the taxonomy regulation, it must be extended from climate to environment and social, and last but not least, the taxonomy must have a renewed focus on transition.
and with all these measures, we can build a common european language for all parts of sustainability and meet the expectations we once set for ourselves to end short—termism and to give the financial sector a renewed licence to operate.
thank you, mr fernández, mr tang, for the question on the functioning of the sustainable finance disclosure regulation.
several european media outlets have recently reported about investments in fossil fuel or aviation activities by funds that categorise themselves as sustainable under the sfdr, therefore triggering doubts on the appropriateness of that to fight greenwashing.
or alternatively, keeping the sfdr focused only on disclosure with uniform requirements for all sustainable financial products and adding a voluntary labelling regime in parallel to allow for the categorisation of sustainable financial products.
to achieve these goals, we need practical measures to ensure that sustainable investment is achieved.
when investment funds claim to be sustainable, they must be sustainable and the trade-related information must be good.
greenwashing effects are harmful to society and the environment.
i'm proud of those who have made their efforts to do so and are trying to show me the environment they live in.
of course, this is logical and legitimate, but it does not mean that these investments are always in line with the goal of society as a whole, or the wider community, which is sustainability and the achievement of common long-term goals.
of course, in a sustainable and self-sustaining, self-sustaining way.
therefore, with these facts in mind, we need to work on regulatory measures to ensure that funds, other than the public sector, invest in sustainable projects that will restore strength and leadership to europe's sustainability-based, green and digital economy.
and yes, unfortunately, unsustainable business and investment often has a higher return than sustainable business and investment, but that's why we need to look at the effects of investing on the environment and on society as a whole.
and all of this is even more pronounced for the region of central and eastern europe, where investment in sustainable projects that will contribute to the fight against climate change is still, unfortunately, extremely low.
so, knowing that many economic activities in europe are still a major source of carbon emissions, i think we have to be aware that without major investment in the energy sector and a sustainable economy, europe will not achieve its green agenda goals, and that would be inexcusable.
therefore, commissioner, i think it is high time that we clearly define and say that sustainability is above short-term profit.
what i'm saying is, if edison had managed by regulation or force or any other way to stop tesla from developing alternating energy, alternating current, we would still be in the 19th century today.
one of the biggest vulnerabilities of the region is, of course, energy and this is why in the economic investment plan, for us, it was a key priority to find alternative routes, alternative suppliers, and help them to get it in the western balkans.
monetary policy can do nothing against higher energy or wheat prices.
instead of sending the unnecessary subsidy to shareholders, the extra profits should go into green investments and to keeping extra capital to prepare for climate change risks.
we must move towards a relocation of our energy policy and economic patriotism.
our energy sovereignty would then enable us to protect our fellow citizens, especially the most vulnerable, against the rising prices of food, electricity, gas, rent and the cost of living.
given that large part of the sky-high record inflation that was steeply driven that started arising after the end of the sanitary measures and eventually exacerbated by the war in ukraine; given that energy prices have come down significantly, we are really concerned about further raises of ecb interest rates to cut demand and consumption in order to lower inflation.
we need to address the root causes of inflation, tailoring the solution to the issue, which is mainly energy-related.
i want to remind to all of us that, in this particular situation, it is up to the co-legislators to act, to continue with our efforts to diversify our energy sources and reduce energy consumption.
the inflation crisis is the product of russia's war of aggression in ukraine, which has sent energy prices skyrocketing.
the disruption in supply chains and the energy crisis caused by the russian aggression against ukraine have had a negative impact on the fertiliser market in the european union.
of course, in the medium and long term, we also need to look for alternatives in organic fertilisers from recycled waste streams, which is in line with the principles of the circular economy.
and of course, high energy prices are partly to blame, but it would also be too easy to blame only energy prices; it is clear that there has been and continues to be market failure.
this requires crop rotations with more legumes, and the reformed cap allows us to promote this as part of a new ecosystem.
yes, the border carbon tax on fertilisers must be implemented as soon as possible if fertiliser production capacity is to be maintained.
it is therefore important to promote the use of more organic and ecological fertilisers and the use of nutrients from recycled waste.
madam president, a uachtaráin, first point, the terrible invasion by russia on ukraine has not only shown that we are too dependent on russia for our energy supply, but even more so on russia and belarus for fertilizers.
i think that the actions on the energy market, with respect to gas prices - stabilizing those prices - that this has brought some positive results, although the situation is still very difficult for farmers and therefore farmers need to be helped.
so far, there is only one such proposal, from poland, which proposes some changes to the 'animal welfare' ecosystem in order to increase the production of organic fertilisers.
so there's a really big need here for support for those farms that are sustainable and that combine both types of production.
we are facing increasing frequency and complexity of natural and human—induced disasters in the context of climate change and global threats to health.
these commitments are necessary for first aid but also - and this is becoming increasingly important today - for tackling climate change.
and we should all be sympathetic to them, but also find ways to further reward and help all the volunteers who selflessly give their energy, their time, and often have, of course, material costs in this work.
we also have an energy crisis, and our companies are going bankrupt.
the theme of this question period is: 'how can the security of energy supply in the eu be ensured in 2023?'
commissioner simson, my question is concerning the issue of production of green hydrogen in the framework of how to ensure energy security in the period of 2023. i would like to focus on the issue of the delegated acts that the commission has already tabled.
– thank you, honourable member, and thank you for allowing me to address this still very important question: how we will be better prepared for next winter in the current volatile environment of energy prices.
but on top of that, we are addressing the remaining bottlenecks, the infrastructure question and, of course, access to affordable, renewable electricity.
mr president, commissioner, it is very clear to me and my political group that if we want to have energy security in the european union, we must look at how we manage to reduce, to eliminate this excessive volatility of the electricity and gas markets in the european union.
it's clear that we need to increase renewable energy capacity, energy efficiency, and it's a question for me how do we, in trying to increase the amount of renewable energy very, very, very much, not create another dependence on the raw energy needed to produce, to contribute to the production of solar panels and i'm talking specifically about batteries.
and that means that our only long lasting and sustainable way to deliver affordable and relatively low prices for our consumers is to accelerate renewables.
the first one was permitting and to address that, our renewable energy directive and some article 122 temporary proposals.
then there is a problem of how to connect these renewable installations into the grid.
mr president, when it comes to energy, i believe that in the past few people have thought about it as seriously as we do today.
there was energy, the price was ok, and we didn't have a lot of burden, neither the citizens nor the economy with energy.
it's clear now, but since february 24th and this unfortunate war in ukraine, we've all suddenly become aware of the importance of energy.
and of course, we all started thinking about alternative sources, about solar, about energy renovation of buildings and so on.
so my question, commissioner, is whether you intend to use this summer for additional checks, for talks, for, i would say, monitoring in the member states, how the implementation of all the commitments made to increase energy from alternative sources is going as soon as possible, as soon as possible.
– yes, i am planning to do that because exactly this year, in 2023, member states have to upgrade their national energy and climate plans, and the previous ones were not aligned to our higher climate targets.
and we did so last just last friday on the energy efficiency directive.
that means that member states also have to upgrade their plans by promoting renewables, but also taking measures that allow them to save energy, because at this very moment we do know that the only sustainable solution to replace the remaining russian gas in our energy mix is to promote savings and also to promote renewables.
right now, all 27 member states are upgrading their national energy and climate plans.
already last year they were very successful in installing new renewable installations and connect them to the grid and altogether we did see this installed new capacity in 2022: 41 gw of solar and, and 15 gw of wind respectively.
the european union, the government of the new democracy in greece, with the support of the other parties, are bidding to engage in the slaughter of bases, weapons and the people to pay a heavy bill for the profits of the groups: expensive energy, fuel, food, successive increases in interest rates by the european central bank and loan installments, the hammer in the popular housing.
from energy, now water, rail, everywhere the groups make untold, green and digital profits, on a cost-benefit basis, and the people count heavy losses, like the 57 souls in the pre-programmed train collision crime in greece, which should not be covered up and about which no one has spoken here.
sending antiquated weapons and military waste to ukraine leads to the end of the war as does the 12th round of sanctions on russia.
we will continue our unwavering efforts to promote a safe and enabling environment for civil society and hrds, including those active in exile, and continue to condemn any threats or attacks against them.
there is a consensus today among scientists, who have been warning us for decades about the dangers, the dangers to our ecosystem, the dangers to agriculture, the dangers to food security.
support for the beekeeper's environment is needed.
madam president, madam commissioner, yes, bees are essential to life on earth and to the maintenance of biodiversity, and we must mobilize very strongly to stop their decline and succeed in reversing the trend.
i also stress pragmatism to improve biodiversity and the lives of bees.
and of course, of course, let's not just look at the price, let's look first of all at sustainability, let's look at what our kids are going to eat and how they're going to eat and let's look at health.
the success of this european citizens' initiative to save bees and farmers is a wake-up call to politicians and society who are doing too little to protect our biodiversity and our food.
the dramatic decline in biodiversity, nitrate pollution of groundwater, degraded soils and the contribution of industrial agriculture to climate change are forcing a rethink.
the national counterpart to this european citizens' initiative was, incidentally, the bavarian biodiversity referendum, initiated by my party, the ödp, which has now helped bavaria to become one of the best nature conservation laws in europe.
that is why i am calling on my colleagues not to follow the agricultural lobby but to take the success of the european citizens' initiative with all its demands as a mandate that gives us all the necessary impetus for urgently needed steps towards sustainable agriculture and the restoration of biodiversity.
the production model, which is based on the guidelines of a cap that favours increasing concentration of agricultural production, monoculture and intensification of the production model, and the abandonment not only of traditional species and models but also of small and medium-sized producers, thus contributing to the reduction of biodiversity, including pollinators, must be questioned.
if you look at this citizens’ initiative, it is very much in sync with the commission’s ongoing efforts to address the decline of biodiversity and accelerate the transition towards more sustainable agriculture and for us as policymakers, that support of our citizens is key.
i think it also confirms that we are on the right track with the strategies we adopted under the european green deal and with the two proposals on nature restoration and the sustainable use of plant protection products.
– mr. president, colleagues, the bridgetown initiative is an international initiative on ways to scale up finance, to fund the changes needed, tackling climate change and help communities and vulnerable countries to do that.
as we all know, we faced globally many short- and long—term crises over the past few years, and those crises have shown that we need more and better finance that is more readily available to help the most vulnerable countries address global challenges like climate change or pandemics.
both low- and some middle—income countries are particularly vulnerable to the effects of climate change.
climate—related shocks have the potential to be highly destabilising and the action needed to address them can be overwhelming to the affected countries and communities.
recent reports highlight the gaps in financing for the green transition and for responding to the needs of countries most vulnerable to climate change.
the european union and its member states are the largest providers of climate finance in the world.
but we all know that public finance will never be enough to respond to the scale of the climate and environmental challenge, either in europe or indeed globally.
but such a small country doesn't have many ways to mobilize capital to rebuild its damaged infrastructure, for a number of reasons: it has, of course, a small economy, it has a small domestic capital market and also because climate change increases financial risks that make loans within the international financial system more expensive.
climate change shows that these impacts will increasingly be felt by island states.
and it is in this context that the bridgetown initiative was established in barbados in 2022. it aims to mobilise more private and financial resources for climate transformation and better resilience to natural disasters caused by climate change.
better protection of those countries from the devastating impacts of climate change can be achieved, for example, by including natural disaster clauses in debt instruments.
i believe that the responsibility for the devastating impacts of climate change is shared and that the most vulnerable countries deserve our support and assistance.
mr president, commissioner, the bridgetown agenda, which was launched by the prime minister of barbados, mia mottley, in the autumn of 2022, aims to create a coalition of wills to put in place measures to reform the overall architecture of development finance, taking into account the exceptional framework created by the so-called three interconnected crises namely the inflation crisis, the developing countries debt crisis and the climate crisis.
the consequences of this systemic crisis for the international financial system, for political stability and for the fight against climate change are catastrophic.
the commission is taking up as the eu foreign affairs council did on 20 february its commitment to a reform of the global financial system that reduces the debt burden of middle and low-income countries and redirects the priorities of the world bank and other multilateral development banks towards the achievement of the sustainable development goals and, in particular, the climate agenda.
in order to achieve the climate objectives, it is essential that the energy transition does not lead to a collapse in the competitiveness of european industry and that it is fair to citizens, who fear that, with general inflation, they will have to bear the additional cost of the green transition.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection.
i therefore particularly welcome the increase in the modernisation fund, which supports ten member states, including croatia, in modernising their energy systems and improving energy efficiency.
the end of the sale of thermal vehicles in 2035 effectively gives china the keys to our energy and industrial destiny, since it has a near monopoly in the extraction of metals for electric batteries and, moreover, has a considerable lead in competitive electric cars.
it is not reasonable and not sustainable to leave the patrol of the southern sea border in the mediterranean to ngos.
a uachtaráin, the ets is one of the eu’s most important policy tools for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in europe – not only this, but significantly reduces our dependency from russia and others.
i believe what we have on the table is a very good result for the climate, for industrial innovation and for our citizens.
by putting a price on carbon emissions, this provides an economic incentive for companies to reduce their emissions, essentially being a market mechanism centred on an innovation approach.
the ets therefore must be flexible enough to accommodate new technologies and innovation and designed in such a way that it can adapt to changes in the economy and the energy sector.
madam president, let me explain why i voted today to revise the european union's emissions trading system.
this system is a carbon market based on a trading system that sets emission ceilings in energy-intensive industries and energy-producing sectors.
it is the main instrument used by the european union to reduce emissions.
it covers approximately 40% of the total co2 emissions in the european union and since its introduction in 2005, emissions in the european union have decreased by 41%.
madam president, i voted strongly against the report on the review of the european union's greenhouse gas emissions trading system, mainly because it extends its scope to include buildings and transport.
madam president, the review of the co2 emissions trading system was an opportunity not to be missed.
under this agreement, the electricity sector and heavy industry will emit 62% less co2 by 2030 than in 2005 and the proceeds from the auctioning of allowances will be used exclusively for climate investments.
but industry will continue to benefit from free allowances until 2034, while, with the extension of the carbon market to transport and heating, citizens will pay as early as 2027. this is a deeply unfair measure, which will create greater disparities between the countries of the european union on the basis of their dependence on fossil fuels and their level of wealth.
the european union, by persisting in its liberal approach to the energy transition, is making a regrettable mistake.
sure, carbon has to come at a cost, but it can't be done on the backs of citizens who are not accountable for their leaders' climate inaction.
all member states have supported these commitments, and the european union generates half of its emissions in transport and energy alone.
if we're serious about our environmental commitments, we need to cut those emissions drastically.
a uachtaráin, the carbon border adjustment mechanism seeks to ensure that the carbon price paid by industries in europe will also be paid by those importing goods from third countries.
importers of carbon-intensive goods will be held accountable to pay the same levy as is imposed on comparable domestic industries under the eu ets, allowing for the extension of the carbon price paid by eu firms to foreign producers of the same goods.
the climate transition is fundamental to europe’s future economy, but we must remain competitive and i think cbam should help to do exactly that.
i still consider cbam to be an important new instrument in the fight against climate change and because of this i voted in favour of the provisional agreement.
for example, there is no need for people to use the sustainable fashion model because they don't have a god and they don't have a place where they live.
in fact, there are different situations in different countries and regions and everywhere in europe, depending on the effects they have on the environment.
madam president, i would like to explain why i supported the establishment of the social fund for climate action.
this fund is directly linked to the revision of the allowance trading system and will therefore benefit those households, businesses and transport users who could be affected by the inclusion of greenhouse gas emissions from buildings and road transport, which is the scope of the new revision of the ets 2 directive.
i think this is really good news that we now have a social climate fund.
for the first time, we have a creation of a fund aimed at mitigating the social costs of climate transition for vulnerable households.
it must be so frustrating for people sitting at home looking at you can get 40 % or 50 % towards getting your house done, you get a certain percentage towards getting a new car and they’re sitting there and they’re listening to news about climate change, they’re listening to david attenborough making them feel like, ‘my god, i’m an awful person’, and they want to do something about it but they can’t do anything about it, because they can’t afford to do it.
so a social climate fund is essential to our future on this planet.
and while the commission is giving money through the climate fund to save the environment and households, it is actually destroying the environment and households.
i will give you an example from our country, croatia, where jaspers and dg regi, which are commission bodies, send tens and even hundreds of millions of euros to create waste management projects that destroy croatian households, local communities and the environment.
so, these are waste management centers that are basically a factory of garbage that will have no one to sell, no quality and will only create a new landfill.
we already have environmental pollution in the built centers of marishkin and kashijun and now, on the same principle, nine more such centers are to be built on completely failed, bad projects.
madam president, the fit for 55 package is a comprehensive piece of legislation that provides a systematic solution to environmental protection.
i therefore welcome the fact that, as part of this package, we are also setting up a social climate fund, which aims to alleviate energy and transport poverty.
i am convinced that actions to be funded from this fund, such as temporary direct income support for vulnerable users or investment in buildings, will have a great potential to mitigate the negative impacts of policies on the achievement of climate objectives.
madam president, i also supported this motion because i consider our climate commitments to be really serious.
and the cornerstone of our ets 2, which we have already approved, is the social fund for climate action.
i just have to wonder a little bit that some of my colleagues were able to not vote for the ets system where this money is created, but at the same time support its distribution, that is to say the distribution in the social fund for climate action.
on the other hand, now the international council for clean transportation says that about 77 percent of eu diesel cars produce emissions that indicate the presence of emissions cheaters in cars and have, under the guise of that, dubious results.
first, we need to work to eliminate the underlying economic, social and environmental causes of poor health.
it is high time to take stock of the immense danger to the loss of our biodiversity that the climate issue carries with it.
all our public policies must be reoriented in the face of this very real threat and all must contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
mr. chairman, it is clear that when we talk about climate change, the situation is bad and we are going to get worse.
so let's help ourselves, let's help nature, but let's also help our children because the fight against climate change must be a priority not just for the member states, not just for the european union, but for the whole world.
now we have the opportunity to create a framework that builds solid and enduring trust between european partners, ensures the sustainability of our public finances and enables the european union to properly respond to our future challenges.
it wants more climate spending, more flexible debt repayment and to abolish penalties for infringements.
this house has clearly agreed that we should not leave the climate debt to be paid by our kids.
we need an exclusion of the investment in social protection systems from the deficit calculation, because we need to learn the lessons from the past and re-establish the positive link between public expenditure and economic growth as a way to regain economic sovereignty and fiscal sustainability, while preparing the future for the next generations.
and we stand with the tens of thousands of serbs who have risen up against this murderous madness, against the permissiveness of gun ownership, and against all those, including political leaders, who have participated in a climate of violence.
just when the stability of the region has been particularly valued because of the russian-ukrainian war, the energy crisis and the migratory pressure.
that is why we really agree on one point: we must accelerate the deployment of renewable energy.
that must be the aim, without giving any environmental guidelines here, but we must simplify and summarize the procedures.
in germany, 600,000 hectares of forest have already been lost, damaged by climate change.
and we must make better use of it, we must not waste it.
mr. chairman, the idea of renewable energy as a potential that can meet all of humanity's needs is ridiculous, ridiculous, insane and full of lies.
let us be honest, especially because of differences in environmental standards and workers' and women's rights.
energy is coming in more or less, as it used to be, but now it's much more expensive and it's going through third countries, so huge amounts of oil are imported through india.
colleagues, the model of buying, using and discarding a product is no longer sustainable.
better and more appropriate management of urban waste is through public sector management, which implies reversing privatisation processes and restoring public control throughout the sector.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, free water in restaurants, the possibility of reusing food containers, the stop to packaging waste for one apple: here are some examples of the benefits for the environment and for citizens.
to reduce the huge amount of waste, reuse is also needed.
only 17% of plastic waste recycled in italy.
we do not negotiate a minimum of mandatory reuse, where we are a paper and glass excellence, and at the expense of sustainable chains it is to accommodate the plastic lobbies.
we must fight the plastic flood, we must fight the waste flood, and therefore we need a regulation, also to create a single market for the circular economy, and the member states which have so far little recycling must do much more.
the commissioner, mr president, and my colleagues, it is very important that the growing amount of packaging waste in europe is contained.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is also concerned about the need to ensure that the environment is a safe place for the environment.
at worst, because of strict requirements and the prohibition of packaging, the environmental benefits are not achieved and the amount of food waste is increased.
the balance of objectives and environmental impact has not been properly considered.
why are we even discussing a new law on packaging and its waste, even though a directive was issued five years ago?
our packaging waste has reached a record high.
in particular, we need ambitious targets for prevention and reuse to stop packaging waste.
unfortunately, there has been a lot of lobbying against this, but more reuse before recycling is crucial to reduce packaging quantities, reduce co2 and other emissions, and stop the destruction of our natural resources, biodiversity loss and pollution.
the waste collection in europe must finally be consistently tackled recycling alone is not enough.
we have a crucial task ahead of us: we must continue to fight for a sustainable, efficient and environmentally friendly packaging economy in europe.
let us vote for it tomorrow, so that we can agree in the middle that this will be a good text that will reduce this mountain of waste.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the commission's basic approach, which places prevention, the first step in the waste hierarchy, as the main objective of the whole proposal.
the present proposal, however, points to a completely different approach, pushing for mandatory reuse rules which are still not certain to be the best environmental option, particularly for large water use, which is an increasingly valuable commodity.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every european generates almost 189 kilograms of packaging waste per year, a figure which is growing steadily.
in this context, the packaging regulation is a significant step towards reducing waste.
the revision of our standards will help to promote innovation in sustainable packaging materials, collection, recycling and reuse of packaging wherever possible.
with tomorrow's vote, we can find the right balance between our environmental objectives and the adoption of rules that work for all.
mr. speaker, before the so-called green policies were devised, before we moved almost all production from europe to china, vietnam and other countries, we had a few kilograms of packaging waste per capita.
we split up here cardboard, here plastic, here glass, here some third waste... but what is the truth?
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
so i hope that it is not too late and that we will have the energy, the strength and the conviction at the level of our different governments to really drastically reduce pesticides.
yes, colleagues, i am talking about what happened here today with the regulation on the sustainable use of plant protection products.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of animals and plants from the effects of the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused by the pollution caused in particular, a recent european commission survey showed that as many as 46% of samples of honey imported into the european union did not meet the criteria of the honey directive.
it is precisely this bernhuber who today led the way in making the commission's proposal to reduce pesticides the main cause of the loss of biodiversity, the main cause of the loss of our bees and pollinators, and this very proposal which the commission has drawn up to reduce pesticides, not only to protect pollinators, but also to destroy our health and our environment.
the cap can also help with the second pillar's agri-environmental programmes, when we promote species-rich meadows and fields, with the conditionality and ecological programmes of the first pillar, for example with flower strips.
the european union has sufficient tools to negotiate trade agreements or to demand support to ensure that we only get products that are safe and harmless to human health and the environment.
bees play a huge role in preserving biodiversity and food security in europe.
jihadist insurgencies, extreme poverty, major migration flows, the effects of climate change.
niger is the world's fourth largest producer of uranium and a key player in europe's attempt to reduce its energy dependence on russia.
the budget for iter and eurofusion, a programme which could solve the energy problem permanently, is again being cut.
in short, we approved a very good basis for amendments, but it was not passed because of those who preferred ideology over environmental protection.
we don't want to die under tons of waste that multiply.
for example, 1,33 million tonnes of waste were placed on the market in the czech republic alone in 2021. however, waste and packaging have a very short life cycle and cannot be recycled.
but it's good that this proposal has passed here, that there's a clear philosophy to fight waste with packaging, that there's a clear philosophy to recycle these packaging, and hopefully in practice this proposal will help and not just end up with unfulfilled intentions.
(the sitting was suspended at 12.30)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on young researchers by cristian-silviu buşoi on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000052/2023 – b9-0034/23).
there is a need to address the roots of this problem via system reforms that can lead to sustainable, long-term solutions.
– a uachtaráin, commissioner, in the ever-changing landscape of global challenges, including complex environmental issues, multifaceted technological dilemmas like ai and global pandemics, it is the young researchers who lead the march towards groundbreaking and innovative solutions.
i hope this commission, in collaboration with fellow european institutions, can implement additional measures to not only acknowledge the importance of these young researchers, but also pave the way for a sustainable career path for them.
every time you claim to help, you make things worse: housing is expensive, but you are the one who imposed uncontrollable, punitive environmental standards that now discourage homeowners from renting or force people to stay in homes they can no longer renovate because they cannot afford it.
energy is expensive, but you set up this energy market, you made decisions about our sources of supply and you killed our nuclear industry.
– madam president, i want to welcome this debate on an eu strategy to assist young people facing the housing and cost-of-living crises – crises exasperated by the greed of energy and financial institutions, who record record profits while workers and families pay record prices.
the fraud with the second pension pillar, which is current today, was exposed seven years ago and with all these injustices and giving again croatia cannot restore the country from the earthquake, clean the streets from the weather or build a functional waste management system.
the european investment bank could, within that climate banking campaign, help finance sustainable and green housing for young people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been asked too often lately: 'do you fight for the environment or do you fight for people in the european parliament?
so it's not there, or it's there, but it has to be there for the environment and for the economy, for farmers, for small and medium-sized businesses, for people, for citizens.