in most european countries and across the eu, the amount of waste generated is increasing, with member states exporting more and more waste.
almost half of this goes to countries that treat waste in ways that are not environmentally friendly, thus increasing the damage to the environment.
i welcome and support the fact that the european parliament's current proposals will make exports of waste more restricted and will only be allowed if third countries are willing and able to handle waste in a professional manner.
i also think it's particularly important to track waste shipments.
it is of particular importance that consignments are liable to be suspended if they cause serious environmental problems in the country of destination.
simplifying the procedures that have been developed is indeed justified, and i believe that this will make it much easier for waste to return to the circular economy without reducing the level of control required.
the waste shipment regulation should further strengthen the fight against illegal waste trafficking, which is one of the most serious forms of environmental crime, as illegal waste shipments potentially represent 30% of waste shipments.
it is important to ensure that the rules are properly implemented and monitored, as this is the only way to significantly reduce environmental damage.
president, vice-president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that sustainable investment for the climate and the environment is needed, and the eib is doing this in a sound way.
the eib's strategic investments, whether climate-related or not, must also continue to monitor and boost the level of prosperity in our society.
the return on climate-related investment in growth and jobs on a net basis is less evident than is too often suggested.
is it not becoming increasingly obvious that certain climate-related activities - i am thinking of mining and nuclear industry, for example - should be approached in a more positive way?
so i am simply advocating less dogma and more balance to ultimately better serve society, the economy, the climate and prosperity as a whole.
this contributes to all eu objectives, sustainability and so on, and ensures a balanced lending that benefits everyone.
as the world's leading climate bank, the eib has considerable potential to continue to deliver on the energy and digital transitions.
at the same time, we must continue to be europe's climate bank.
the cont committee report shows that the eib is overall on a good path, particularly as a frontrunner in climate action and as a role model for other international financial institutions in their quest to become aligned with the paris agreement.
coming to the climate and repowereu, i think that everyone underlined that we have put on the table eur 30 billion extra to stimulate renewable energy, energy efficiency, innovation and so on.
that is very clear in our climate bank roadmap.
– madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank on behalf of commissioner hahn, the rapporteur and the members of the committee on budgetary control for this thorough report on the protection of the eu’s financial interests and the fight against fraud for 2021. the eu’s crisis response to the covid—19 pandemic, the war in ukraine and the related energy challenges demonstrate how essential effective eu action is to the lives of eu citizens.
the eu budget and nextgenerationeu aim at building resilience and at creating a more secure and sustainable future.
the future of brazil, of a great democracy, but also of our planet is at stake, for example in the fight against climate change, defending and preserving the amazon, as bolsonaro has failed to do.
a uachtaráin, commissioner, with the pandemic, and now putin’s callous war on ukraine and even brexit, it’s clear that the global environment is becoming increasingly fractured.
as europe faces increasing economic and security challenges, building sustainable partnerships based on shared values is key for the eu’s standing in the global environment.
yet over the last decade, other global powers have developed vast networks of trade, transport hubs and energy routes, as well as digital infrastructure all over the world, extending their global influence like roots deepening in the soil.
through this initiative the eu can work to strengthen our global partnerships on a platform of shared values and with the objective of promoting european priorities in digital, climate, transport and health policy.
i particularly welcome the facts of the focus on supporting climate mitigation in low— and middle—income countries.
i attended cop 27 late last year, and the topic of climate mitigation and loss and damage was high on the agenda.
the commission’s intention to invest in clean energy and green technology in developing countries can also provide us in the eu with the opportunity to diversify our energy supply chains and move away from fossil fuel imports.
i mean, sustainable, trusted connections that bring free trade prosperity to all, and delivering all of that to the benefit of the eu’s geopolitical goals.
we are rushing headlong into a climate crisis, and this is causing a very large proportion of us, and it's already really noticeable, and it's particularly noticeable in the global south.
mr president, if there is one word to describe the moment we live in, i would go with ‘polycrisis’, because we need to fight simultaneous challenges like climate change, the pandemic, the war and democratic backsliding.
what these crises have in common is that they require investment to reduce emissions, to build resilience for pandemics, to create access to education, not only in europe, but globally.
problems of corruption, disregard for human rights and the environment are just obviously glaring, and the global gateway initiative has been, i believe, a strong response to this polycrisis and also a clear alternative.
sustainable peace and stability need to be attained prior to integration in order to avoid taking on a divided country with internal division.
thus, sustainable peace and stability in ukraine have two prerequisites.
this is a very short time, knowing that there is no adequate charging infrastructure or viable demand to start the new zero-carbon era.
what we really need is less red tape, lower energy costs, well-trained workers.
while energy prices in europe are skyrocketing, america is attracting investors with paradise conditions.
tackling climate change is an urgent challenge.
effective environmental protection measures are essential, but one of the proposals before us could be the culprit for farmers and foresters, as the newly defined large-scale reduction of agricultural emissions would require measures such as restricting the use of fertilisers or reducing livestock numbers and changing the food consumption habits of the population.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and on the environment in general, and on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and on the environment in particular.
mr president reducing fluorinated greenhouse gases and ozone-depleting substances is essential to combat climate change and to the health of our citizens.
it is important to understand that some applications, such as nuclear power plant cooling, do require these gases, as they can play a central role in achieving the eu's climate goals.
the transition to a climate-neutral economy must be fair in all respects, and i ask you to put people, workers, at the centre, now and in any future legislative proposal.
mr president after lengthy negotiations, agreement was reached on the main elements of the eu's climate package.
it can be said that while the environmental benefits of some of the proposals are expected to be small, one thing is certain: these measures will lead to a significant increase in energy prices.
the adoption of a per capita climate tax, added as part of the emissions trading scheme, will have a particularly adverse impact on european and hungarian families and jeopardise the long-term sustainability of the hungarian emissions reduction programme.
brussels' misguided climate policy has already sent energy prices skyrocketing and inflation into overdrive.
but the climate tax will again put a strain on the public purse.
instead of unrealistic visions that inhibit economic growth, we need real climate action that is environmentally and climate friendly.
mr president i am pleased to see that the european commission is also taking the fight against climate change and the green transition of the continent more seriously.
and the eu must provide even more support to those countries that are particularly hard hit by the transition, because only then, building on european solidarity, can we bring about a green europe, so that the european union becomes the first climate neutral great power.
it is a national responsibility to ensure that the penal codes are up to date and are as severe as the penalties for the crimes committed justify, and therefore it is a frontal error that we are spending energy on this.
when we do so, it is shameful that so little energy is being spent on the harmful impact that islam has had on the status and legal security of women in european countries with the mass immigration that a large part of this house has welcomed, indeed still promotes as part of europe's solutions.
the rapporteur is the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the european parliament's committee on the environment supported my resolution by a large majority and mrs borzan incorporated the main proposals of our committee into her report, for which i thank her.
it is essential to avoid the misuse of double quality and the use of unproven, overly generic claims and labels such as 'eco-friendly', 'bio-based', 'carbon neutral' or 'climate friendly'.
all in all, more and more companies and brands are now really embracing sustainability, and the role of greening is being valued.
the euro 7 emissions standards for vehicles are certainly an important step forward in the green transition.
first, it is important to emphasise that the introduction of pollution mitigation measures requires, in many cases, significant investment, which is the biggest burden on the automotive industry and such measures can also have a long-term impact on competitiveness and jobs.
in the current war-torn inflationary environment, we must protect our citizens from further inflation due to the irresponsible proposals of the brussels left.
this additional resource would be largely sufficient to refinance ngeu's costs and would be significantly allocated to the social climate fund.
i therefore welcome the debate today on the right to repair proposal, which will not only save consumers' wallets but also benefit the environment as waste is reduced.
it is now of utmost importance that an agreement is reached that balances climate and environmental protection, competitiveness and economic considerations.
sustainable transport is vital, but as always, there are still many challenges and obstacles to new technologies, green buses and trucks.
mr president, colleagues, the ecological crisis, the geopolitical tensions, the rapidly growing inequality – these are challenges that transcend our national borders.
i can imagine a union with genuine powers in health and education, with a unified voice on climate justice and, yes, with a common army.
i am sorry, but the identity, the sustainability and the security of the european peoples are not at stake.
it is important to note that pollution, climate change, poses a serious risk to them.
by supporting local beekeepers, we can not only guarantee the quality of european honey, but also make the protection of pollinators more sustainable and reliable.
with smaller steps, such as a more environmentally conscious lifestyle, supporting local products or emphasizing the importance of education, we can do much to build a more sustainable future for ourselves and future generations.
without the work of beekeepers, bees, not only would we lose a valuable traditional product, but our biodiversity would also suffer a serious strain as the dust settles.
families have a prominent role to play in the fight to protect the climate, because every step we take affects the future of our children.
a sustainable future requires a sustainable demographic, so the family is not the cause, but the solution to the climate crisis.
hungary has one of the most ambitious climate programmes in the world.
we have significantly reduced our carbon emissions while increasing our economic productivity.
by following best practices, the whole world needs to come together, because only together can we make change for climate change.