we owe our fellow citizens more than to bequeath to them the generalized fiscal injustice, while they pay dearly for the mistakes of brussels: energy crisis, inflation, decline in purchasing power, relocations, unemployment.
the waste shipment regulation intends to protect the environment and public health from the impacts of unsound transboundary shipments of waste, since the non—appropriately controlled shipments of waste across borders may generate risks for both the environment and human health.
we should keep in mind that these wastes, particularly as raw materials, could benefit the economy by reducing the dependence on primary materials leading to a more secure and sustainable economy.
the eu should not embrace measures that will cut off facilities, that are making sustainable progress, from the recycling markets.
the eu can be a global leader in the green transition, using its influence and incentives to promote transformational change, not only in our continent, but also in third countries in terms of waste management.
32.7 million tons of waste, of which 1.1 million tons of plastic waste: this unimaginable amount of waste was exported by the european union to the rest of the world in 2021 alone, often to countries like turkey or malaysia.
it is particularly important that we want to ban the export of dangerous, toxic plastic waste.
the fact that the export of plastic waste is to be completely banned within four years is a real success.
but the truth is that, beyond plastic, the export of non-recyclable waste is still possible in many cases.
unfortunately, the majority of this house lacks the courage to say: we europeans take full responsibility for the waste we produce and cause.
and we all pay when that waste finds its way into our rivers, onto our beaches, and into our soils.
what we do with our waste goes to the heart of environmental justice.
this means taking responsibility for the waste we produce rather than simply putting it out of sight, out of mind.
today, parliament moves to ban the export of plastic waste.
mr president, commissioner, in 2020 the eu exported over 27 million tonnes of waste outside the eu, an increase of 75% since ’04.
between 2001 and 2019 we doubled our hazardous waste shipments from the eu.
our waste production trend seems to be going in the wrong direction.
this report supports the introduction of a phased-in ban on the export of plastic waste outside the eu, and that’s to be welcomed.
but to stop us from drowning in our own waste we’re going to do a lot more, and we really need to scale up recycling capacity and also significantly reduce plastic waste in the first place.
we need to change the eu’s waste economy.
mr president, in 2020, the eu exported more than 33 million tonnes of waste to non—eu countries.
among these wastes, as colleagues have pointed out, one of the biggest contributors is plastic pollution.
the hundreds of millions of tonnes of waste produced every year, which degrade into microplastics end up in all the world’s oceans in the bodies of humans and animals.
and while waiting on the so—called reform of european rules aimed at banning waste to africa or east asia, it is more than urgent that we intensify our efforts to fight against illegal exports, which are a violation of the sovereignty of states and populations outside the eu.
madam president, mr president kristersson, ladies and gentlemen, to deal with the cost of living crisis caused by the rising cost of energy and to deal with the climate emergency, we have an easy solution that also isolates putin.
as rapporteur for the review of the energy performance and building directives, i want the european union and the member states to tackle these crises simultaneously.
buildings are responsible for more than a third of greenhouse gas emissions in the eu.
with ambitious minimum energy performance standards, i intend to lift millions of europeans out of energy poverty and i aim above all to introduce social safeguards and to protect those most at risk.
and finally, commissioner, we have never had an impact assessment on farm to fork, on the biodiversity strategy or on the green deal itself.
we are now more dependent on china for the green transition than we have been on russian energy.
we need to be more proactive, we need to be seen as what we aspire to be: a force for global progress in the fight against climate change and inequality, the development of a just multilateral order that can address the energy and food crises, but also build more cohesive societies.
and finally, the climate crisis has long been a threat—multiplier.
fighting climate crisis is not everything, but without effectively fighting climate crisis, everything will come to nought.
do you really think that this approach to human rights is sustainable and good for society?
madam president, commissioner reynders, it is indeed one year since the brutal war of aggression that we call putin's war against ukraine, which has had seismic consequences for the european neighbourhood as a whole from the social and economic point of view, from the energy point of view, from the humanitarian point of view, but also from the geostrategic point of view, which has led to an exercise in unity for which russia has been punished politically.
the commission did not hesitate to quickly propose a series of strong sanctions, including in sectors such as energy, knowing the price these sanctions could have for our economies.
in relation to energy policy, we are making good progress, but we must protect the most vulnerable.
it is hell-bent on fanning the flames of war in what used to be our largest gas supplier, caught flat-footed by the new american protectionism and its energy-gouging.
well, you can be absolutely guaranteed that unless you abandon neoliberalism and start examining renationalisation in the key areas of energy and infrastructure, then you’re on a hiding to nothing.
i also welcome the fact that the eib has taken its previous statements, to the effect that it wanted to become the climate bank, seriously.
it is now well committed to funding the transition, both in the digital economy, as well as in climate change directly itself.
we have to continue with that, both because of the geopolitical reasons with regard to the invasion of ukraine and russia’s aggression, and due to the fact that there is huge opportunity in terms of protecting the environment and the climate, as well as in terms of innovating and creating jobs in those particular areas to do with the transition and the digital economy.
so i do commend the report and i welcome the continued commitment to the climate agenda.
and it all has the tacit approval of eu governments and the european commission, who know that eu money is being used to fund repressive apparatus on europe’s borders, violating the human rights of vulnerable people fleeing wars and climate change that we caused in the first place.
€300 billion of announced investment in the environment, education, health, access to water, digital; this is the solution we hope for and need to strengthen our links with our partners.
mr president, this geostrategic investment initiative in development ironically misses the mark of the development mandate in many ways, in terms of sustainability goals, human rights and more.
we should be guided on international cooperation to deal with poverty reduction, fighting inequality and climate change rather than this geopolitical nonsense.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we need a european regulatory framework to ensure the sustainable development of the european union and its member states.
we need to ensure that projects implemented with european resources are truly sustainable, including with regard to the raw materials used or the social conditions of workers, to combat, for example, unfair competition from other non-european countries.
but for sustainability we also need more responsibility from the private sector, especially big business, and a sustainable tax regime.
companies that have made huge profits in the context of the crises we have been through, for example energy companies, need to show solidarity, including through appropriate taxation, as proposed recently at the davos forum, by providing additional resources to states for sustainable investment.
we need a standardisation of practices so that all countries can benefit from the opportunities offered, the sustainable approach and the framework provided by european regulations.
the sustainable financial disclosure regulation is clearly flawed as more than half of the dark green under article 9 are levels of investment in the fossil fuel industry and in aviation.
the greenwashing of financial markets has proven to be very lucrative, with over 619 billion invested in these funds with a promise of sustainability.
how does the commission plan on legally defining greenwashing to enforce the sustainable finance disclosure regulation and article 9?
madam president, i think there is an irony here that we’re talking about sustainable investment funds against the backdrop of yet another scandal in terms of the eu institutions.
the investments came at a time when parliament was passing resolutions to cut co2 emissions.
i would like to recall that the sustainable finance disclosure regulation is still a relatively new framework.
the flexibility in it was considered necessary when the file was negotiated back in 2018-2019. we’re still early days in the development of our ambitious sustainable finance agenda.
its decarbonisation is set on a clear course towards carbon neutrality, both with our refueleu aviation blending mandate, with sustainable fuels, the ets reform and kerosene taxation.
that is why we are currently reflecting on the scope of activities to be covered in the next delegated act on taxonomy, and we are assessing the report by the platform on sustainable finance.
mr president, if the eu wants a sustainable solution in the area of asylum and migration, it should end all its support to nato and the military industrial complex.
i call on the european institutions to support the granting of temporary visas to afghan girls and women so that they can find a safe environment in europe and escape from hell.
i want to speak for tens of thousands of french farmers here, and in fact for an entire sector which is in danger of dying as a result of a decision which is disproportionate and, i believe, totally unsuitable for the ecological objective pursued.
the college—to—government meeting and the summit will provide an opportunity to take stock of the union’s ongoing support to ukraine across all areas, including financial, humanitarian, energy, budget support, military support and diplomatic outreach.
the strategic partnership in this area reflects the significant potential in ukraine and the high degree of integration of renewables in the energy market and in infrastructure.
for every home that putin leaves without electricity, heating and hot water, we will build the necessary water pipelines until europe's energy sovereignty is a reality.
since the sanctions were imposed, however, inflation, economic crisis and energy shortages have threatened to erupt across europe.
the motion talks about peace, which is good – when we refused to support ukraine when they reached an agreement with russia last april, forcing them to fight on – but it has to be a just and sustainable peace.
madam president, repowereu was a much-needed programme to ensure energy independence.
however, it is well known that we in the green group could not agree that this need should be used to override the principle of not significantly harming the environment or to undermine our climate objectives.
i must also say that it has been a very big mistake to try to make nuclear energy eligible for this fund.
i say this, above all, because it would have been a huge mistake to have tried to use the energy emergency and the needs that we have to completely override our climate emergency goals.
but of course, continuing to move towards energy independence, respecting our commitments under the paris agreement, remains essential.
the repowereu linked to the rrf is aimed at alleviating russia's energy dependence.
250 million tons of carbon dioxide.
ladies and gentlemen, as we vote on the energy crisis package and the funding to phase out russian gas, we can be very proud.
we opposed the commission's climate-friendly proposal, a proposal which would have increased emissions in europe by 250 million tonnes.
to increase emissions to finance solutions to the energy crisis, at this point, when we are in the midst of both a climate and an energy crisis, would have been nothing short of pissing in our pants.
and in the end product that we're going to vote on, we've now funded the energy crisis package without massively increasing emissions, and we should be proud of that.
we in the centre party and the liberal group will vote in favour of this proposal which finally gives us the opportunity to phase out russian gas without sacrificing the important climate work.
unfortunately, it was only with russia's aggression against ukraine that the harmful policy of making eu countries dependent on russian energy resources was demonstrated by germany and, unfortunately, by the european commission.
but i would like to inform the commissioner that my country, poland, has been pursuing a policy of independence from russian energy resources for more than ten years: we have built the gazoport in świnoujście, the baltic pipe, which brings gas from norway, interconnectors with slovakia and lithuania.
we're already energy independent when it comes to gas supply.
first, it is the poor member states that are the ones who are paying for climate policy with a large share of the ets funding.
secondly, there is no derogation from the principle of non-aggressive damage, which undermines the possibility of financing technical infrastructure from this programme, which is the basis for diversifying the supply of energy resources.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the recovery and resilience mechanism is the only way the european union can meet the challenges we face, particularly in the energy sector, but also in global competition.
therefore, i believe that romania should aim at a wider optimisation of the rdp, so that all targets and objectives are achieved mainly on the energy component.
we must seize this opportunity to tackle energy poverty, to combat inflation, to help smes, but above all to prepare for the future.
yet we’ll still have these contracts with our energy companies.
volunteering, social, environmental, human rights: i don't think we need to talk about that at all.
madam president, only last september, commission president von der leyen stated that it was ‘paramount to now investigate’ the nord stream pipeline attack and that ‘any deliberate disruption of active european energy [...] is unacceptable and will lead to the strongest possible response’ – the strongest possible response!
it was also environmental terrorism.
there is no doubt that the electric car will play an important and central role in reducing our co2 emissions in europe in the future.
the basic objective is right: we need to achieve climate-neutral mobility in europe in the long term in order to achieve important climate policy objectives.
for example, emissions trading is about meeting a specific co2 reduction target and incentivising compliance.
this decision kills innovation, and it is also not good for climate protection in general, because the decision to go for the electric car completely ignores the fact that the carbon balance is not beneficial, from electricity to manufacturing, it is hidden, and this is a sign of a huge double standard in my opinion.
the burner would also have continued to deserve a future with climate-neutral e-fuels, for example.
but i am fundamentally against being banned from using a carbon-neutral burner in 2035 (the speaker is speaking with the microphone off).
we are deciding today whether to abolish the internal combustion engine in the european union for new registrations from 2035. and it is right that we are making this decision - on the one hand for climate policy reasons, because road transport still emits far too many greenhouse gases, but on the other hand also for industrial policy reasons.
an industry fully committed to climate transition.
energy and automotive engineers, driven by innovation, are taking on the challenge of getting us to 10 percent zero emissions by 2035, which is really ambitious and objectively good.
so i encourage you to make this transition with industry and its workers; with their ability to generate jobs and pay taxes; from technological neutrality to ensuring more open competition; recognising and supporting the strengths we have in europe to continue to lead the transition towards the goal of climate neutrality that we all share.
and another thing: we're not just reducing emissions in the transport sector by changing the engine.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this agreement on co2 emissions from cars and vans is a real and important step forward in protecting the health of citizens.
it is estimated that 15,000 people died prematurely in 2020 due to pollution and 80,000 people die annually due to smog.
but to make this development sustainable, we need to encourage public transport.
however, the analysis of the agreement reached with the trilogue shows that the main problem is precisely environmental.
if we look at what is happening outside europe, it is striking how countries, especially china, where the electric mobility solution is depopulated, are exactly the countries where electricity is not produced from renewable sources.
in europe, where the development model has been increasingly geared to prudence, to the mix, to the attempt to harmonize solutions, energy production is strongly oriented towards renewable sources.
don't call them "clean cars", "zero emissions", or we'll ask you to call nuclear plants "clean plants", "zero emissions plants" as well.
the environmental problem is the first problem on which you have been too casual and that is why many, including those on the left of this house, will not vote for this agreement in the vote we will have today, because there is a problem of the specific, typically european, harmonization between environmental considerations and the development considerations.
this is climate action, but it’s also about cleaner air in our cities and towns.
electricity is the cleanest and the most efficient energy source for road transport: for cars and vans, but also for trucks and buses.
by promoting electrification in road, the benefits for people in terms of reduced emissions and air pollution are truly enormous.
mr president, commissioner timmermans, colleagues, we are in a triple planetary crisis of climate change, pollution and unprecedented biodiversity loss.
and then there's another question: do politicians in the united states, for example, or switzerland, have less knowledge and a different view of environmental protection because they don't want to impose such great solutions as electric cars on their companies and their society?
ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the importance of reducing co2 emissions, of the importance of the path to climate neutrality.
do we have a sufficient network of green energy charging stations?
and finally, i'm not going anywhere, and i asked this also in the transportation committee, do we have data, honest data, that tells us what the co2 emissions are in the entire process of producing, of disposing of electric cars?
mr president, cars and vans will have to reduce their emissions in the next two years in line with european climate law.
the epp certainly wants to find the best solution to reduce carbon emissions.
innovation and technology are the essential tools for our sustainable future.
technological neutrality is the way to reach climate neutrality.
mr president, mr vice-president timmermans, today the european union is taking an important step towards meeting its climate objectives.
a new regulation for co2 emissions from cars and vans, which allows us to have the horizon of the year 2035 for our arrival on the moon in this field: end to combustion cars.
and we have to remember that this is a critical step towards meeting our climate neutrality target by 2050.
20% of emissions come from this sector.
but it's not just a climate ambition.
that is why the decision we are going to take today is so important, and at the same time it protects public health, because pollution causes 300 000 deaths a year in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr timmermans, with the co2 emissions regulation for cars and vans, the union is giving itself an essential instrument to achieve the decarbonisation objectives of the european climate law, a strategic legal text that will lay the foundations for a future-oriented industrial policy.
instead, let's really commit to a transition that is equitable and socially and ecologically sustainable.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is certainly a leader in environmental protection and we must maintain it.
we have to think that we are not regulating for ourselves here, but we are regulating for the citizens, and we have to understand how we can strike that balance, because today's regulation is not finished with the vote we are giving this week, but we are going to have, commissioner, policies to transform european industry, to implement industrial policy, reindustrialisation of the european union, and obviously we have to think about how we protect citizens, not only from an environmental point of view, but also from an economic point of view, because clearly, the financial capacity of citizens and of member states is different.
now, in fairness to jan, the rapporteur, he fought for 70% at the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, but some of his own renew members even voted against him.
we need an eu-wide phase-out date for sales of new internal combustion-engine cars and vans as close to 2030 as possible, but surely no later than 2035, to meet the eu’s 2050 climate neutrality target.
let’s not waste it.
but -- and this is just as important -- far from this acute alleviation of human suffering, we also need to get into this nexus approach and not just into humanitarian aid, but also into good development cooperation and also into conflict reduction and the creation of sustainable peace.
so while we all have longer—term strategies around the farm to fork strategy, the biodiversity strategy, the reduction of artificial fertilisers, we need an immediate issue to address the high input costs for this planting season as we start out.
voluntary associations of citizens provide valuable response capacities in the face of ever more frequent natural disasters, which are caused by climate change, but also other crises.
six cities devastated, four provinces illegally annexed, eur 108 billion in aid, which the people of ukraine are going to have to pay back over decades, global food and energy crisis.
mr president, it is clear that the current inflation crisis is supply-driven: first by supply chain bottlenecks and now by energy and fuel companies abusing their market power.
as millions of europeans struggle to feed their families and heat their homes, energy and fuel companies make record profits because of price speculation.
this inflation problem with energy and food companies exploiting the bottlenecks, profiteering from it, and there's nothing in the report to rein it in.
now, road transport emissions account for 26% of the eu's co2 emissions.
mr president, decades of policies designed to promote the use of artificial fertilisers, instead of more resilient, sustainable farming methods, have exasperated farmers’ vulnerability to the fertiliser crisis.
all actions taken to support farmers through the current crisis must be part of a long—term vision and strategy for the sustainability and resilience of this sector.
if the ecological transition is necessary, it must be driven by a pragmatic and not punitive vision, as is too often the case here.
households and businesses are struggling to pay sky-high energy bills.
renters are stuck with eye-watering fuel bills, with no control over the energy performance of their home.
the recast energy performance of buildings directive, or epbd, is that solution.
it is a plan for the eu to achieve a climate-neutral building stock by 2050. why buildings?
well buildings are responsible for 36 % – more than a third – of europe’s greenhouse gas emissions.
categorically, the eu will not achieve its climate targets without this directive.
however, we have a deal on the epbd that will not only lower emissions but will also lower energy bills, boost european jobs and industries, and strike a blow to europe’s dependence on fuel imports from russia and elsewhere.
it’s a fair and realistic plan because it targets the worst-performing buildings, prioritising people in energy poverty who are most impacted by high bills.
and we will boost renewable installations in buildings, and member states must adopt plans to phase out fossil fuel use in buildings by 2035. it’s also a flexible plan.
furthermore, without this directive, we’re in grave danger of missing our climate targets.
and instead, tomorrow, let’s vote for cheaper bills, warmer homes and climate protection.
mr president, commissioner, the energy efficiency of buildings can be significantly improved and it is a good objective that the building sector should also be climate neutral by 2050. you can improve the insulation of buildings, you can replace windows, you can change the heating system.
there are many ways, but how do we improve energy efficiency?
we have such different circumstances in different member states, such different climatic conditions, building stock, forms of energy and heating that it is most sensible to decide on the means at the level of the member states or the region.
often, property owners themselves decide what is the most sensible way to improve the energy efficiency of their property.
it is a reasonable goal in itself to have all new buildings zero-emission by 2028. this is certainly possible, but the way in which zero-emission buildings are defined here, that is to say that the heating system should be based on renewable energy sources, does not take into account the fact that we have countries, like my own country, finland, where energy production is already largely zero-emission, either from renewable energy sources or from nuclear power.
according to this proposal, nuclear electricity would not be considered a zero-emission energy source and the building would not be a zero-emission building.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all want energy efficiency, we all want the citizens of our country to pay a lower bill.
madam president, i received a lot of emails in the last week asking me to vote in favour of a strong energy performance in buildings directive, one that can both cut emissions and combat worsening energy poverty.
i often say that the european parliament is the place where climate ambition comes to die.
ciarán’s draft committee report shows lots of ambition, the kind of ambition we need in order to adequately respond to the climate crisis.
the weakening of the minimum energy performance standard is particularly bad.
we are headed for a climate crisis.
40% of our greenhouse gases from the building sector alone is a huge field that we can address.
and with this energy efficiency building directive, we are heading in that direction.
i firmly believe that this is being driven by a right-wing power that has no qualms about my generation, that all the students, all the young people have a perspective, first of all, to be able to live well on this planet and secondly, to be able to somehow pay their energy bills.
now, as colleagues have said, our buildings are responsible for nearly 40% of the eu’s greenhouse gas emissions.
we are in the middle of an energy crisis.
it’s not the time to lock in low standards and high emissions for the next 20 years.
this is still a valid aphorism in my own country, where the directive on energy performance in buildings is often presented as an attack on the real estate of citizens.
there are no automatic penalties, no restrictions on sales and there is also a recalculation of energy classes.
i mean, we're in the middle of an energy crisis.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
no to the immobility of real estate, yes to intervention with certain resources to build together a greener, fairer and more sustainable future.
by targeting the buildings that waste the most energy first, so-called worst-performing buildings, the epbd targets those buildings where the poorest people often live, which cushions them from spiralling energy bills.
although different views have been expressed, even critical remarks, i can read the majority support for an ambitious position on energy-efficient renovation of buildings, as reflected in the commission proposal.
the provisions on minimum energy performance standards are among the most important ones in the revision of the epbd to achieve the 2030 and 2050 targets.
in addition, the social climate fund to be adopted will provide the necessary mid- to long-term financial support to building renovations targeting vulnerable citizens and also smes as a priority to ensure that no one is left behind.
it is about tackling climate change, and it is about achieving a just transition.
tsvetelina penkova spoke about protecting citizens from energy poverty – this is at the heart of what is being proposed and supporting the vulnerable.
morten petersen said, ‘look, we want to reduce our use of gas and we want to tackle climate change’ – that makes absolute sense.
marisa matias from the left talked about aligning social justice and climate justice – this makes absolute sense within this proposal.
we are undermining the competitiveness of the european economy, of european agriculture, and yet the european union is responsible for only 7% of global co2 emissions.
the other emitters, especially the major ones, are not particularly concerned, they're basically marking up a policy to reduce co2 emissions.
they are the main beneficiaries of the eu's climate policy, and they are also running coal-fired power plants on a massive scale.
madam president, the european union insists on neoliberal and market solutions as the alpha and omega of the fight against the environmental problems we face.
it seeks to create the illusion that mechanisms such as greenhouse gas emission trading, which promotes, in addition to being perverse, the buying and selling of the right to pollute, are ineffective in reducing emissions.
a serious fight against emissions reductions requires another way.
a normative approach is needed, setting reduction targets in accordance with fair, effective and transparent criteria, incorporating the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, aligned with the dissemination of best available technologies, alongside, inter alia, policy changes in the energy and transport sectors, regaining public control of these strategic sectors, enhancing domestic production and promoting public investment.
mr president, commissioner, vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, the eurobarometer data have shown once again that the fight against climate change is a priority for the citizens of europe.
the european parliament, by approving this additional package of measures, which includes reducing co2 emissions from transport, buildings, agriculture and waste management, wants to send a clear message in this direction: and that is that our future and the future of future generations is in a more sustainable society and economy.
if planned and managed with foresight, the transition to a net zero emission system is not only beneficial for the environment, but also for the economic growth of our societies.
sustainable growth, jobs and the environment can and must go together.
what we are seeing in some states, for example by the italian government, despite the fact that in my country the po valley suffers from one of the worst air pollution in the world, is a serious step backwards and certainly does not represent the will of the majority of european citizens.
soil and forests play an important role as carbon sinks and storage and, of course, as a source of sustainably produced raw materials.
i am personally pleased that the carbon dioxide target of the lulucf regulation is in line with the climate act and that the main objective of the eu climate action plans is to reduce emissions.
a significant improvement is that the carbon footprint calculation model is based on the recent, real-world development of the gorges.
the loadsharing and land use sectors, as the rules on carbon certificates are also only now being worked out.
it is absolutely essential that each member state be responsible for its own emissions and removals, because this is the only way to combat climate change effectively.
it encompasses 60% of the eu’s greenhouse gas emissions, and this shows how important that package is.
first of all, i would like to thank very much jessica polfjärd, who has been fighting to establish the effort sharing regulation, which is, of course, setting national targets for all those sectors in countries that do not fall under the emissions trading system (ets).
those members, especially those on the right of the centre, who are here in this house, irresponsibly refusing to work on measures to combat the climate and biodiversity crisis, are sacrificing the chances of future generations to live.
buildings insulate instead of horrendous energy bills, modern electrical drives instead of old stinkers, and flourishing landscapes instead of poisoned agricultural deserts.
mr president, in light of europe’s historic responsibility and its capacity to act, the eu must reduce its domestic greenhouse gas emissions by at least 65% by 2030, compared to 1990 levels.
to meet this, the effort sharing regulation needs to achieve at least 50% emissions reductions by 2030, compared to the 2005 levels.
the emissions reduction trajectory in the agreement is less ambitious than parliament’s position.
the agreement contains loopholes that would exempt member states from around half of the emissions cuts that they are supposed to deliver on the basis of the emissions reduction trajectory.
member states would still not have to count emissions from unsustainable biomass in their national greenhouse gas inventories.
mr president, today we are discussing three pieces of legislation in the fit for 55 package aiming at climate neutrality in the eu by 2050. among them is the update of the regulation on land use and forests for the period 2021 to 2030. we all know that to achieve the eu’s climate objectives and climate stability, european and national policies rely heavily on carbon storage in forests.
however, new data from the united nations framework convention on climate change shows that most eu countries are losing or have lost their forest and terrestrial carbon sinks.
overexploitation of forests for energy production appears to be one of the main factors for this loss, as the current fuel crisis leads to an acceleration of panic logging and firewood purchases.
mr president, mr commissioner, when this european commission took office in 2019, it established itself as a geopolitical commission committed to sustainable policies, to building europe's image as the guardian of multilateralism.
today, more than ever, the european union must assert itself through its geopolitical capacity, lead the traditions that are fundamental to the sustainability of the planet, to the defence of democracy, freedom and the sovereignty of the peoples.
and now we have an energy crisis, a cost of living crisis, an angry nuclear power on our doorsteps and the inflation reduction act.
he’s been trying to divide us for years, that’s why he’s been reducing energy exports to europe.
the inflation is caused mainly by him and by his actions, which leads to higher energy prices, higher food prices.
– we move to the report by mr cuffe on energy performance of buildings.
the eu must be able to take action to protect the environment, but at the same time we must always support laws that protect the environment.
i appeal to the georgian people not to waste your window of opportunity.
and third, fight even harder against energy poverty and obscene inflation, and sanction shor and plahotniuc.
at the moment, my country, romania, is assisting the republic of moldova, providing it with everything from financial support to energy resources, resources that it needs, while the promises of donors are delayed.
let us therefore take responsibility for a long-term sustainable migration policy, where those who have the right to seek asylum can do so.
well, then we can send a different signal now that we agree on a long-term sustainable migration and stand up for the right to seek asylum, and welcome migrants in a dignified way so that they can seek asylum.
so it's important that all the parties in this room now negotiate so that we have a long-term sustainable migration where we stand for the equal value of people and the right to seek asylum.
since qatargate broke, we’ve seen the consequences of lax transparency and integrity rules, waste of public money, loss of trust in the institutions and undue influence.
if you really want to tackle organised crime in the eu, there are ways of doing it without implementing mass surveillance, without eroding civil liberties, without fattening the pockets of the arms and security companies, and without creating a pervasive climate of fear and suspicion.
our workers are in a situation of constant precariousness; the energy crisis, deindustrialisation, unemployment, inflation are all increasing the numbers of people who are increasingly insecure.
in essence, the report reiterates that robust economic growth, sound fiscal policies and a healthy balance between government revenues and expenditure are necessary to reduce legacy debt and make debt sustainable in the long run.
mr president, (off-mic/sound) ... creating a sustainable peace settlement as a reliable partner.
they tell us to prioritize healthy food, eliminate harmful pesticides, restore biodiversity, make sure we put clean food on the table that doesn't make our kids sick.
our own children are marching for climate action while we sit here and debate.
we have a spiralling climate crisis, and despite all our talk, we have not come to terms with the gravity of it all.
by 2050, it is reckoned that we will have 1.2 billion climate refugees.
and i think there is a really sick irony in the fact that the world bank provides around 1.7 billion to the oil and gas sector, while at the same time reaping back repayments on the indebted poor, the very people suffering from the climate crisis in the first place.
we see now the revolving door where donald trump’s world bank president appointee steps out, joe biden steps in and the ownership of this world bank and imf by the us continuesthe very countries that are failing to pay for even the most meagre climate pledge.
they failed to meet the 100 billion goal for 2020, but we actually need six times that finance in order to avoid the most dangerous climate change.
we could have international financial institutions that work for people and the climate, that are oriented by human needs.
3,000 farms are closing down because of their climate footprint.
it tells us that the regulations we deal with here in the european parliament destroy business, destroy entrepreneurship, introduce crazy regulations, make the lives of producers difficult because someone has decided that they will talk about green deals, carbon footprint and other such things that have nothing to do with living life.
we would like to see the current food system revised to be more plant-based, more sustainable and better for animal welfare.
mr president, animal welfare is an issue that cuts across many aspects of agriculture, sustainability and general public health.
the eu wants to regulate everything in our lives in the name of climate - from consumption to transport, buildings and travel - which, according to the commission itself, has only a small impact on global average temperatures, while hitting hard at our prosperity and people's freedom.
is that really how climate policy has to be?
it is not helping the climate if europe isolates itself and shifts its emissions to other parts of the world.
unfortunately, the eu is often an obstacle to nuclear power and carbon reductions globally, even though it is cheaper and more efficient for the climate.
instead of promoting freedom and prosperity, many seem to believe that the climate is being improved by making europe's citizens suffer, which is an incredibly costly mistake.
capital steals resources instead of paying for them whenever it can, and women’s time and energy is a resource pool it’s been robbing since the dawn of time.
under slogans of environmental protection, under slogans of climate hysteria, of climate protection, in fact certain companies, in this case a german coalition, are lobbying to change the rules and to take business away from the countries in central and eastern europe where companies operating in the refrigeration, heating, in these and all areas will now have to make huge changes and will lose their jobs.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, reducing emissions of fluorinated gases in europe is the right thing to do.
some fluorinated gases can persist in the atmosphere for thousands of years and have a greater global warming potential than carbon dioxide.
in doing so, the european union's climate and energy security objectives can be maintained, but should go hand in hand with realistic and effective reductions in f-gases.
madam president, these gases have a huge global warming impact and need to be phased out as soon as possible.
the environmental committee report explicitly provides a repowereu reserve for heat pumps, which means that the commission will be able to give additional quotas to heat pump manufacturers if any shortages arise that might derail heat pump installation targets.
madam president, i welcome the measures to tackle the depletion of the ozone and i voted for the file.
but while that’s all well and good, there is a huge contradiction between our statements here and the fact that the biggest methane emission ever, with huge consequences for the ozone, took place last september with the blowing-up of the nord stream pipelines – a devastating act of sabotage on eu infrastructure.
if we want to protect the ozone, we have to have some consistency in our policies.
madam president, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on substances that deplete the ozone layer because the protocol describing them and subsequent decisions at world level create a legal obligation for the union and its member states to set a timetable for phasing out the production and consumption of substances that deplete the ozone layer.
i believe that the commission's proposal has left some gaps which have been largely filled by my colleagues from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
mr president, these legislative files are supposed to contribute to the eu’s goal of reducing its overall emissions by at least 55% by 2030. firstly, that 55% reduction target is far too low, given the eu’s historical contribution to global rising temperatures and the eu’s capacity to reduce its emissions.
the final outcome of the emission trading system process is unfit to contribute towards the eu’s goal of reducing its overall emissions by at least 55% by 2030, and is way off the mark for what is required to keep temperature rises within the relatively safe zone of 1.5°c.
the ets has failed to deliver any meaningful reductions in industrial emissions from sectors such as steel, cement and chemicals.
this is mainly due to the billions of free pollution permits given to energy—intensive industries under the scheme – and now we’re repeating the same mistake again.
mr president, people and young people in particular are protesting against the impact of climate change on their lives, against the worsening of these consequences.
our commitment of fifty-five percent after accounting for the better land use through the climate package that we're bringing into being here actually amounts to fifty-seven percent.
we're investing in energy efficiency, we're investing in renewable energy, we're investing in air and sea transport.
we have to mention them here, but we're dealing with them through the social climate fund, which we also set up.
i think it's important to say that the single most important moment for our future is sustainability.
and that is climate neutrality.
so much so that they are now creating a fund to mitigate the impact of this path on people, a so-called social and climate fund which, in addition to being insufficient and with a small range of beneficiaries, penalizes portugal in particular, unjustifiably discriminating against a country of cohesion.
we have said it before and we will say it again: today's environmental problems require a regulatory approach, as opposed to market instruments, which sets reduction targets in accordance with fair and effective criteria, in accordance with the principle of common but differentiated responsibility.
mr president, we are talking about fit for 55 against the backdrop of the revision of the european emissions trading scheme for the aviation sector.
we all know that the biggest question in this area has always been the issue of long haul flights accounting for 6% of flights from the eea, but responsible for about half of the co2 and nox emissions.
yet under the new eu legislation, these flights are going to continue to be covered by the much cheaper un corsia offset scheme, rather than our european emissions trading scheme.
choosing between a habitable environment or airline profits should never be a difficult choice.
that’s why it was so disappointing to see ireland argue last week against the case taken by the swiss climate seniors and claim that the convention does not guarantee a right to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment.
ireland was the second country worldwide to declare a climate emergency back in 2019, yet we had the highest emissions per capita in the eu in the second half of last year.
we are playing an active role in this devastating climate emergency which claimed the lives of 15 000 people in the eu in 2022. it’s about time the irish government did a bit more than talk about climate action.
the next item is a short presentation of the report by alexander bernhuber on sustainable carbon cycles (2022/2053(ini)) (a9-0066/2023).
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for a very good report on this point, because it is really about finding sustainable solutions and new sources of funding for carbon storage.
we certainly need to better reward land managers for carbon storage and biodiversity conservation in terms of the topics we're going to be addressing.
mr president, we’re asking farmers to cut methane and other emissions in the agricultural sector, but crucially also to draw carbon out of the atmosphere by sequestering it in soils.
we really need to urgently get on with this and give farmers the right tools and finance to transition to sustainable forms of agriculture.
methane, a greenhouse gas 80 times more powerful than carbon dioxide, with the latest un data estimates of between 75 000 and 230 000 metric tonnes of it released in the nord stream 2 economic sabotage and environmental terrorism.
mr president, we need to be very careful with how we set up carbon farming.
in ireland, we have a target of 25% emissions reductions for the agricultural sector by 2030. it would be a total disaster if we had farmers selling off carbon credits, absorbing their decarbonisation efforts and handing them over to big businesses to greenwash their activities.
farmers need finance for carbon removals.
there are ways we can get private finance into carbon farming without damaging farmers and giving dirty industries a free pass, such as a contribution claim model.
to reach climate neutrality in 2050 we need deep and drastic emission cuts, but it is impossible to bring all our emissions down to zero.
we will need carbon removals as well.
we will have to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, store it through technology or natural carbon sinks.
the international panel on climate change points towards the decreasing likelihood of limiting global warming to 1.5°c unless rapid reductions of greenhouse gas emissions occur.
the international panel on climate change report clearly states that the deployment of carbon dioxide removal to counterbalance hard—to—abate residual emissions is unavoidable if net zero co2 or greenhouse gas emissions are to be achieved.
carbon removals will play a critical role in helping to meet our climate neutrality target, but it cannot be sustainable for drastically reducing emissions, which must remain a priority.
recognising the growing importance of carbon removals, the commission adopted the communication on sustainable carbon cycles, which is the subject of the report that we are discussing today.
the communication sets out three pillars to establish sustainable and climate—resilient carbon cycles.
first and foremost, we need to drastically reduce our reliance on carbon, for instance, by improving the efficiency of our buildings, transport modes and industries, by reducing our primary resource consumption and moving to a circular economy and scaling up renewable energy.
the second pillar is about the circularity of carbon.
we need to recycle carbon from waste streams and emissions from sustainable sources of biomass or directly from the atmosphere to use it in the sectors of the economy that will inevitably remain carbon dependent.
the third pillar is carbon removals.
we need to upscale carbon removal solutions that capture co2 from the atmosphere and store it for the long term.
the communication established a roadmap to promote both industrial carbon removal technologies and carbon farming practices.
industrial carbon removal technologies will support the european union’s green tech leadership and create innovative business opportunities.
carbon farming will incentivise our farmers, foresters and other land managers to store carbon in soil, trees, shrubs, wetlands and in peatlands, to provide them with a new source of income in return.
in addition, practices such as tree restoration or enhanced agricultural soil management have great co-benefits for nature and the sustainability of food supply.
however, to build such new business models for industrial carbon removals or carbon farming, carbon removals need to be credible.
therefore, we need to establish a framework for the reliable certification of carbon removals.
the commission proposed last year a voluntary eu—wide certification framework as a tool to reliably monitor, report and verify high—quality carbon removals that deliver unambiguous climate benefits.
quantifying and verifying carbon removals in a robust and transparent way is a crucial first step before the possible future integration into eu climate policy post 2030. in addition, we need to fight greenwashing and ensure that the growing corporate commitments on climate neutrality result in real climate benefit.
there is also significant european funding supporting the development and deployment of carbon removals available.
common agricultural policy funds can be used to support farmers that invest in carbon farming practices, and the eu innovation fund uses the revenue from the eu—ets to finance carbon removal projects.
there are also already numerous life projects dedicated to carbon farming and funding under horizon europe, including under the eu mission ‘a soil deal for europe’, under which substantial funds are being channelled to further research and testing of carbon farming practices on the ground.
beyond carbon farming, biodiversity preservation and increase is also critical to foster our carbon removals.
science is clear: more biodiverse forests are also those that remove more carbon, being also more productive and multifunctional.
healthy wetlands and peatlands are also key for climate change, mitigation and adaptation.
in that sense, nature restoration as well as the implementation of the kunming—montreal global biodiversity framework agreement are also vital.
it is essential that we transform industry and further enhance the growth of carbon removals.
that is why the commission is preparing a communication on industrial carbon management as a direct follow—up to the communication on sustainable carbon cycles that we discussed today.
we should fully reap the potential of carbon removals.
in the us, for example, we see unprecedented levels of investment and funding for carbon removals.
the net zero industry act already provides for a simplified regulatory environment for ccs investment and sets a 50 million tonne target for operating permanent co2 storage capacity annually by 2030. the communication on industrial carbon management will look at the longer term to identify the needs in infrastructure development, investment and regulation.
it will propose a roadmap to ensure that industrial carbon management can fully support the achievement of a climate—neutral european union by 2050. let me conclude by thanking you once again for your work on this file and by expressing our wish for swift progress on the commission’s proposal for a regulation on a carbon removal certification framework.
this lays an important foundation for realising the full benefits of carbon removals.
with this report on sustainable carbon cycles, we are asking parliament to provide a robust framework for carbon credits.
techniques such as carbon agriculture can help us to make agricultural land in the european union an asset in the fight against climate change.
with this proposal of so-called "carbon credits", we can work on a certification for carbon storage in, among other things, agricultural land that works for the farmer on the field.
only if we succeed in doing so and thereby create an incentive to apply techniques that capture more carbon from the air will this proposal bring benefits to nature and farmers.
the commission welcomes the report, and specifically its call on the commission to propose a strategic approach which connects the dots and assesses how better egovernment contributes to an improved business environment, while reducing costs for governments.
these initiatives will help create the right environment to stimulate investments and reduce the costs and delays for the deployment of very high capacity networks.
while the changing security environment has caused the eu to strengthen its military instruments in europe and abroad, and justly so, it is also crucial that the eu sends the message that we also want to want to boost our non-military security support and promote sustainable peace in our neighbourhood and globally.
the changing security environment has increased the need for civilian crisis management and what is required of the missions.
all this shows that the demand for civilian crisis management is growing, and as the security environment around europe and beyond deteriorates, there is no time to rest on our laurels.
the czech republic also fails to transpose a number of european regulations, especially in the energy sector.
madam president, energy security comes from the guarantee that we can produce enough in the european union, but equally that we can store it as well.
when we look at our move towards renewables, we have to ensure that in terms of production of electricity, we also have the ability to store electricity in other forms of energy, and that requires a lot of investment in innovation and creating new technologies, and the european union has to play a lead role in that specific area of ensuring that there is huge investment in the areas of storage.
so we do have to address the issue of energy storage in batteries, a smart grid, we also have to address the issue of the lack of investment in the area of hydrogen.
and hydrogen, in my view, is a key component in converting renewables into energy when we need it in times of fluctuation of production because of the vagaries of renewables themselves – mainly wind and solar.
but overall we are on the right path, but we need strategic investment from a european perspective to guarantee security through energy storage.
madam president, the journalistic investigation "the forever pollution project" has revealed the frightening extent of contamination by pfas substances, which are synthetically produced, are toxic and persistent substances that have a multitude of applications.
reducing exposure to increasing concentrations of persistent pollutants is in line with the objectives of the european green deal and the sustainable chemicals strategy 2020. the proposal by some member states to restrict some 10 000 pfas substances is therefore a step in the right direction in the search for viable, safe and sustainable alternatives.
and that is why it is important that the commission takes up this challenge and acts now to safeguard health and protect the environment.
pfas – most persistent human-made chemicals called forever chemicals for one reason: they remain in the environment forever.
the risks that these chemicals pose to human health and our environment are of utmost concern.
dangerous chemicals must be banned from situations that are harmful to human health and the environment.
chemistry and innovative chemicals will also play an important role in the climate transition.
madam president, as we have said, scientific studies on the effects of pfas on our health and the environment are piling up, and each one is more worrying than the last.
we know that today, 75,000 tons of pfas are released into our environment every year.
banning uses is one thing; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, plastic has become so cheap to produce, it has invaded every part of our lives, our seas, our soils, our environment.
we now have a plastic waste problem so massive that everyone except those responsible for it has to pay to clean it up.
it does not matter that these toxic hazardous chemicals do not break down, but instead remain in our environment and even in our blood forever.
madam president, forever pollutants, pfas toxins are a real concern both to people and our environment.
not just in terms of strengthening legislation itself, but we also need to expand our capacity around evidence, around science, testing, sampling and analysing to ensure that we can detect the immediate impacts that these particular forever pollutants are having on the health of people and the broader environment.
soil health, water health, food health and the health of wildlife habitats are consistently being degraded by the presence of pfas toxins in our environment.
however, nitrogen dioxide emissions, largely produced by diesel vehicles, kill 64 000 people every year.
the icct tells us 16 million cars on european roads still carry pollution—cheating devices, even though they are banned in the eu.
culture, knowledge and skills are the only tools that can enable the afghan people to rise from the economic and environmental crisis and the food emergency that holds the country hostage, and the contribution of women, again, is crucial.
madam president, one of the tricks used to greenwash european capitalism is that so much of our environmental damage is outsourced to the rest of the world.
we talk big about being sustainable within our borders, but we have to examine our supply chains and our global footprint.
consumption here depends on extraction far away, and many of the products produced outside the eu are harmful, they drive deforestation, biodiversity loss, exploitative work practices and human rights abuses.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in its latest report, the ipcc denounces the inability of world leaders to limit global warming to + 1.5 °c, the target set by the 2015 paris agreement.
europe does not have to shoulder all the world's climate sins alone.
so this morning we’ve heard a stream of political leaders taking the stand, all calling for urgent action on climate change and biodiversity loss.
yet in the agricultural committee basic legislation to cut pesticide use and save pollinators is blocked at every turn, in the fisheries committee there’s pushback against the idea of ending bottom trawling in marine—protected areas, and even in the environment committee there’s pushback against the corporations who are using plastic and plastic packaging all around the place and are not cleaning up their mess.
so this house must stop the spin and genuinely speed up urgent climate and biodiversity action.
madam president, it really is beyond depressing to talk about climate crisis and how reluctant politicians are to do something equal to the challenge.
the ipcc report really is the final plea for us to get our act together and redeem ourselves, and while we’re at it, we shouldn’t forget that the path of diplomacy is actually climate action.
let’s have pens and conference rooms instead of bombs and jet fuel, because unless we take on board the climate impact of war, we’re really on a hiding to nothing.
we are witnessing the slow death of the green deal because of political cowardice, a death which has only been accelerated by the epp group, who seem to be on a rampage to guillotine the little bit of climate ambition that’s left.
they might be surprised to learn that climate change is threatening our food security.
and just lastly, commissioner, i thought your speech this morning on the environment was excellent and fair play to you.
our citizens must understand and feel that their concerns and vulnerabilities in the present climate are understood and dealt with.
we need a framework that is simpler, more risk-based, and with an increased focus on the medium-term that will help implementation and enforcement, and we must promote investment in europe and, of course, debt sustainability.
the proposal states as follows on page four: ‘the green and digital transitions, the need to ensure energy security as well as social and economic resilience, and to build up defence capabilities, will require sustained high levels of investment in the years to come.’ it seems the hawks and brussels have used the war in ukraine to incorporate defence spending into the new fiscal rules.
the realisation of partnerships between equals for freedom, peace and sustainable development is a path of hope for africa, the caribbean and the pacific, for the european union and for humanity as a whole.
and finally, we must support inclusive mediation initiatives on sustainable peace and rapid transition to democracy.
chinese corrosive capital continues to cause environmental damages, undermines good governance, and even the eu acquis passed down through the enlargement process.
it is absolutely crucial for the european union to combine a sustainable alternative to chinese investment with the necessary political commitment to serbia’s – and the region’s – democracy and eu membership.
on the economic front, the eu and kosovo are facing common challenges: energy and other commodities, inflation and concerns about the future.
the energy sector remains also a cause for concern, not only for kosovo, but for many of our partners in the western balkans.
to help the region deal with the energy crisis, the commission has put forward a eur 1 billion energy support package for the entire western balkans.
in this context, we welcome kosovo’s adoption of its energy strategy for the next ten years.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, what we are discussing today is an essential tool for remedying the annual fragmentation that is plaguing the european defence market, which, according to the latest figures, is causing an unacceptable waste of resources and inefficiencies estimated at between 26 and 130 billion euros per year.
the next item is the debate on the report by milan brglez, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on surface water and groundwater pollutants (com(2022)0540 – c9-0361/2022 – 2022/0344(cod)) (a9-0238/2023).
pollution is a major pressure on water and biodiversity.
this debate on a key deliverable in the zero-pollution package is therefore very timely.
the proposal is based on the latest scientific knowledge, including advice from the scientific committee on health, environmental and emerging risks.
we know a lot about pollution, but in some cases not enough.
it also strengthens transboundary cooperation when a pollution event affects several member states.
we need a more dynamic decision-making system to protect the environment and human health from emerging risks.
– madam president, of course, we cannot be blind in front of the effects of the human activity in our ecosystem.
i think it is essential that companies and private operators should be held responsible for the pollution they cause.
environmental crimes should be investigated more extensively across the eu and polluters should be made to pay for their actions.
clean water is vital to our health and our environment.
therefore, industry, and particularly the mining industry, must comply with strict environmental criteria in order to avoid any pollution of water bodies or groundwater.
we need to promote responsible waste management and invest in advanced water treatment technologies.
by protecting our water resources, we ensure a cleaner and healthier environment for future generations.
we need to find sustainable solutions to drought and flooding while protecting our drinking water sources.
we know that pfas pose enormous health and environmental risks and that big corporations have lied to us for decades about their dangers.
now, the big culprit for the pollution of our rivers and lakes is, of course, the increasing nitrate concentrations, runoffs from dairy farms is ruining our ground and surface water and it’s got to be addressed head on, as this is ultimately the source of our drinking water and many sectors of our society, including agriculture, rely on clean groundwater.
agriculture and the environment are not opposites, they go hand in hand.
while we welcome the push for transparency and accountability, the european parliament will have a lot of work to do to gain the trust of european citizens – from environmental laws watered down to appease big business, to senseless military spending lining the pockets of the arms manufacturers while europeans grapple with historic levels of inflation, yielding to lobby interests is just business as usual for the european parliament.
the abandonment of clean, cheap and efficient energy in favour of intermittent, expensive energy, which makes us dependent on china and requires the activation of coal-fired power stations.
there is only one choice: to ensure that our people have abundant, cheap, carbon-free energy to support our industry, to support the purchasing power of households and to ensure the future of our children.
we need an ambitious plan to build new generation nuclear power stations throughout europe, on the model of the messmer plan which gave france energy sovereignty a few decades ago.
the renewable energy directive is a real success.
we're finally getting more renewable energy.
and, contrary to what my two previous speakers have just said, the future does not belong to radiant nuclear energy, which is expensive and dangerous, where we do not know how to dispose of nuclear waste, but it belongs to the sun, it belongs to solar energy and it is therefore really a future for the young generation.
and that is what we are doing with this renewable energy directive.
what we cannot call progress is that we describe woody biomass as a future energy source in this renewable energy directive.
this summer, we're seeing our forests burn down because of the climate crisis.
we're destroying our carbon stores with this.
but otherwise the renewable energy directive is a real way forward.
flooding our landscapes and coasts with wind power will destroy our environment.
it is sad that the eu and the climate movement have completely abandoned the old ideals of nature conservation and species protection.
the truth is that renewable energy will only make us more and more dependent on china.
mr president, commissioner simson, severe natural disasters adding up to human and natural tragedies during this summer, around europe and especially in my home country, greece have highlighted the need to erase the eu emissions when it comes to the share of renewables in energy consumption to tackle the climate crisis and energy security.
that is why here today we are doing a very important debate, because finally we set a comprehensive framework for the deployment of rates across the eu, because we agreed an 42.5% of renewables binding target by 2030 on final energy consumption, following the will of 85% of the european people asking for the eu to invest massively into renewable energies.
it is worth mentioning that high value environmental areas, such as natura 2000 sites, will be excluded from these acceleration areas.
it will be important also to mention that the target of 42% of hydrogen used in industry must be produced from wind, hydro and solar energy.
it is also the cross-border… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, renewable energy and renewable energy sources are certainly necessary to protect the environment.
but what we have to stress is that there has to be flexibility and it is good that it is a directive and not a regulation, because, i mean for the colleagues who argued that biomass should not be included and that it should be wind energy only, we do not have the same resources in all the member states.
there is no wind in romania like in the netherlands, we don't have the same solar energy, so it's good that they have been included, that the scope of renewable energy has been expanded.
mr president, so, this is the latest revision of the renewable energy directive – the establishment of common rules and targets for the development of renewable energy across all sectors of the economy.
now, the lower-than-expected target for the eu share of renewable energy, and the inclusion of low-carbon fuels and non-renewable categories in the renewable energy directive, really risks jeopardising europe’s energy transition by withdrawing crucial resources and funds for the deployment of renewable energy.
and, as colleagues have said, for the transport sector, the perpetuation of the false climate solution of biofuels is going to continue to waste land that could feed millions.
mr president, despite the many revisions of the renewable energy directive, it still encourages member states to burn their own forests to meet the directive’s targets.
he told me that in ireland, 42 % of all sitka spruce grown is harvested for energy – that’s a quarter of all irish forests.
the minister specifically told me that this 42 % makes an important contribution to ireland’s renewable energy targets.
the revision of the directive gives member states considerable decision-making power in relation to key sustainability criteria.
but we know from the irish example that many member states will simply ignore the clear scientific evidence that burning biomass is a disaster for the climate.
mr president, i have heard many times in this chamber, and from other european and national leaders, that the protection of the environment and nature is a priority for the union and its member states.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
this requires the implementation of policies of the best possible environmental protection and of a more effective protection policy.
such policies magnify the effects of climate change.
mr president, dear commissioner simson, allow me to start by quoting mario draghi: ‘where we need to get our act together is energy.
we are going nowhere paying energy twice or three times what it costs in other parts of the world.’ by speeding up all the relative efforts in regard to the implementation of our repowereu plan, with all the emerging legislative measures, we have tried to decrease prices and give some relief to households.
at the same time, the eu needs to continue to ensure affordable and accessible energy for households, decreasing the numbers in regard to energy poverty, while at the same time enhancing the industrial and economic competitiveness of its industries with step, with net zero act and facilitating new solid investments.
when we discuss further actions to russia in regards to the import of lng, we have to consider that this kind of sanctions raise critical issues of security of supply, while at the same time jeopardising the fluctuation of the energy prices among member states.
in order to erase our dependence from putin, we need more renewable, fast deployment, more energy efficiency projects, more renewable fuels as fast as possible.
mr president, mr commissioner, as we look at the progress made in the european energy union, we can be pleased with the many positive steps taken in this regard.
in particular, the fact that emissions have decreased by more than 32% since 1990 and at the same time the eu's gdp has increased by 67% shows that sustainable growth is possible and we can cut emissions.
the european union has also succeeded in eliminating the very high dependence on russia for energy.
we must stop all energy purchases from russia and bring all energy activities under sanctions.
the next time the commission prepares this package of 12 rescue measures, it must be extended to the whole of energy production.
i agree with the conclusions of the communication that short-term measures to mitigate the energy crisis have been successful.
we have reduced our dependence on russia, diversified our supply, increased our stocks, and increased production of renewable energy.
on the other hand, we have a reduction in energy consumption, which is partly due to energy efficiency measures, but also unfortunately because people are having difficulty paying the price of expensive heating gas.
i welcome your speech yesterday at the nuclear energy forum support for nuclear energy as well as small modular reactors i am preparing a report on this point.
and the long-term solution i see is that we really respect the rule of technological neutrality and implement measures for 10, 20 years to come, because energy is not planned for two or three years, but planning is measured in decades.
mr president, one of the primary objectives of the energy union was to provide clean and affordable energy for the people of europe.
yet, irish consumers pay annual energy bills that are about eur 800 more than the average in the eu.
the eu has pushed the privatisation and liberalisation of the energy sector for decades, promising it would lead to greater efficiency, lower prices and a decarbonised economy.
the pace of decarbonisation is far too slow and the concept of marginal pricing means consumers pay gas prices for renewable energy anyway.
they’ve just killed 4 000 children ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, every year that passes brings us closer to the deadline set by the paris agreement necessary to limit the climate catastrophe.
and yet a new study has shown that the carbon budget today is less than half of what we thought it was in 2020. so if we continue at the present emissions rates, we have only six years to remain within the 1.5 degree limit, and it is fossil fuels that are at the root of this problem.
yet the eighth state of the union report states that fossil fuel subsidies in the eu have doubled in 2022, supposedly on the basis of supporting consumer demand for energy.
three european banks are the top banks financing these companies and exploiting carbon bombs.
for us as the epp group, it is clear that we must prove that wages and growth go up and emissions and environmental impact go down together.
and it is also clear to me that environmental protection, climate protection, we will only achieve with industry as a partner and not with industry as an adversary.
the epp is on a different course: industry as a partner for climate and environmental protection.
it’s estimated that pollution from road transport causes 70 000 premature deaths every year in the eu, as the commissioner herself highlighted.
a report by the international council on clean transportation showed that china’s emissions limit values are nearly twice as stringent as the euro 7 proposal, and the us limits are nearly three times as stringent.
i am pleased that this parliament supports the third of these options, that of increasing own resources, and that it does so with these three tax instruments: an increase in the percentage of what is collected on european markets in terms of carbon emissions, carbon adjustment mechanisms at the borders and a business-based own resource.
madam president, europe wants to serve as a stronghold for citizens against the economic, social and climate crises and, as we see every day, the budgetary issue is central to these struggles.
more and more challenges that cannot mean more taxes on citizens and, here, the next own resources, in addition to the objective we have set in terms of the environment, in terms of the climate, should also contribute to fiscal justice and to, and i conclude, madam president, the objective of combating tax fraud, tax evasion and tax evasion.
in conclusion, i note the importance of finding a fair balance between sustainability of financing and ensuring that each member state carries a reasonable burden.
the new resources which the eu will be able to use for this purpose will come from the emissions trading system, the carbon border correction mechanism and a greater contribution from multinational technology companies.
this is an environmental political bubble in brussels that once again shows that the people of brussels have lost touch with reality and that what they are doing is only directed against the interests of consumers.
i have voted against euro 7 as an opportunity to reduce the impact of road transport emissions on air pollution and our health.
every year in the european union 70 000 people die prematurely from car emissions, 140 per day in italy.
the industry and most of this house have tried to make us believe that carmakers do not have the resources to invest in reducing pollution caused by their combustion engine vehicles and that the investment will result in unsustainable price increases for buyers.
on the contrary, with fewer polluting cars we could save over 100 billion public resources at the expense of the environment and health and, most importantly, could save thousands of lives.
i voted for this proposal as it seeks to update the euro emission standards to introduce stricter air pollutant emission limits for internal combustion engine vehicles sold in the eu, with a view to meeting the european green deal's zero pollution ambition very important for the environment and for people's health while at the same time keeping vehicles affordable for consumers and, very importantly, also promoting europe's competitiveness.
in line with my previous position on the regulation on co2 standards for cars and vans, i did not support the inclusion of carbon-neutral fuels and biofuels in the legislation.
madam president, i supported this proposal because i think it has found a reasonable compromise between addressing the impact of the automotive industry and traffic on human health and the environment and, on the other hand, the competitiveness of our automotive industry as such.
even though emissions are constantly decreasing for individual cars, they are constantly increasing due to the increase in total car volume and production.
we also standardized testing for cars to introduce emissions, or to control emissions as such.
that is why i did not endorse this proposal, because it does not seem to me entirely responsible that we should put this indirect pressure on tax increases in the european union, especially at this time when we are dealing with energy price increases, etc.
of course, everyone must have the right to safety, education and a healthy environment in which to grow and thrive.
and the second one says that the family is the best environment for the child, and that's why the family deserves support too.
madam president, in the aftermath of cop27, where progress and setbacks were laid bare, our attention is now sharply focused on the imminent cop28 and the pressing matter of climate finance.
first and foremost, the pivotal role played by the european union in un climate talks must be recognised and persist in the upcoming discussions in dubai.
we are emphasising the urgent need for increased climate financing.
such financing is not just an investment in environmental resilience, it is a fundamental step towards achieving social and economic stability.
secondly, trade has too often been the missing link when responding to the climate crisis.
we are once again on the brink of a global climate change policy.
last year, 32 million people fled the effects of the climate crisis, and there will be more.
we need a breakthrough in the international compensation fund for the poorest of the poor who are suffering from the climate crisis.
mr wopke, i am pleased that you are here today and that you have given us a very clear statement in your hearings to support this climate fund, this compensation fund.
madam president, dear colleagues, commissioner, cop28 is a great opportunity for the eu to enhance and reinforce its leadership towards the climate neutrality until 2050. we are fulfilling our commitments, and the latest concrete example is the recent agreement between the parliament and the council on the eu regulation to reduce the energy sector’s methane emissions in europe and in our global supply chain.
it is important to collectively deliver and address our climate goals in order to protect our planet, our society and our economies.
only for the european economic area, the so-called climate gap, the bill we pay in order to address the consequences of natural disasters is eur 12 billion annually after 2020. we are going to see all major emitters in the world to reduce their emissions, as agreed in the former cops.
this applies particularly to china, whose per-capita co2 emissions are already higher than the eu.
we also have to underline the need to support the global energy transition at cop28 by pushing to end fossil fuel subsidies by 2027 and to phase out fossil fuels altogether.
towards this effort, all actors have to scale up their efforts to mobilise financing from all sources to support climate action and look for effective pathways to facilitate, to direct access to climate finance to local and regional authorities.
the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, has said that climate change is an existential challenge that threatens our present and the future of future generations.
madam president, cop conferences are now mostly theatres of climate colonialism, led mainly by corporations, powerful governments of the global north and elites, where we see a performance of diversion and delay with little or no substance, repeated annually.
we will never tackle the climate crisis if we don’t tackle inequality.
oxfam’s ‘climate equality: a planet for the 99%’ report this week says the richest 1% of humanity is responsible for more carbon emissions than the poorest 66%.
this is the great carbon divide.
of course there needs to be a dedicated space for multilateralism, but cop isn’t working, and one of the key reasons for that is that the global north has failed in its responsibility towards those areas of the world that are most affected by climate change.
and even of the monies that were delivered upon, 71% of that public climate finance was in the form of loans.
last year, pakistan was at the front line in terms of the climate crisis, with floods displacing 33 million people.
i am speaking to this house, ladies and gentlemen, in the knowledge that europe's positions on environmental policies are divergent but the objective which we must pursue through our political action is to return a more sustainable planet to the new generations.
the ets directive could teach us something, but i also think that the 'net zero emissions industries' initiative could be a concrete response to the risk of a strong industrial relocation overseas, due to the parallel us ira law which provides for government funding doping for companies dealing with green energy.
but the challenge today and it is a european challenge and only at this level can we play and win is the challenge of maintaining this competitiveness through the long transition to sustainability of our production machinery, avoiding falling into new dependencies (batteries, raw materials, chips) and also avoiding falling into the trap of those who would like us, as a european system, to be in a position of inferiority to the global economic system.
environment, technology, research and human capital, as colleague lina gálvez pointed out, that is to say, the education and the idea of academia, are a positive cycle and we hope that there will be a great deal of commitment to this innovation.
it is good to have an advanced technological framework, it is good to have an environmental policy but what is lacking are the resources and the promised sovereign wealth fund should be the right way forward.
madam president, at the basis of many technologies reducing carbon emissions, we find semiconductors, chips.
better, faster chips, better system designs – these are often the main drivers of reducing co2 emissions.
so we can't choose which technology is green and which is low-carbon, but instead we use the term low-carbon and in this way we give our place to nuclear energy, which fortunately has found its place in this act as well.
so i think we need to rely on innovation, research, technology, of course, with low emissions, but we can't stay dependent on third countries.
madam president, the net zero industry act is presented as europe’s answer to the inflation reduction act, the usd 360 billion so-called clean-technology investment initiative launched by the us last year, which completely caught the eu off guard, enacted as it was when europe was on its knees from the repercussions and the energy crisis triggered by the sanctions on russia, and raising the prospect of wide industrial relocation to the us.
but the question that has to be asked here is: does this initiative genuinely contribute to environmental protection and decent jobs, or is it, as it would appear, just a con to really transfer public money into private hands with zero accountability?
and with this new law, it will be easier, more cost-effective and more sustainable to repair broken products.
no more unnecessary administration, because by repairing more, we ensure that products last longer and reduce waste.
we're all saving a lot of money, we're looking after the environment, and we're encouraging businesses to deal with products more sustainably.
it's a waste of the planet's resources, and it's a burden on our environment, it's a challenge to our wallets, and we end up buying new too often instead of getting repaired.
that's good news for our portfolios, but also good news for the environment.
madam president, 35 million tonnes of waste, i do not know if we can imagine.
in addition to these 35 million tonnes of unrepaired objects, there is the environmental cost.
this represents no less than 30 million tonnes of wasted resources and an additional 261 million tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions for the european union alone.
that's why i'm going to be very supportive and i hope this report will be passed tomorrow, because it brings something very good, on the one hand for consumers, on the other hand, to reduce waste, because we all know how much waste has increased from all products.
madam president, to achieve the ecological transition, it is essential to transform our single market.
each consumer must be able to choose to get his goods repaired so that we can talk about a truly sustainable market.
waste is expensive and produces a lot of waste, so we must encourage repair.
with this proposal, we are putting in place effective solutions for consumers and sustainable production.
according to the european commission, we produce 35 million tonnes of waste from premature disposal of goods.
to protect families and the environment we must improve the guarantee system for these products, promote independent repair points and, thirdly, ensure that spare parts arrive quickly and affordably.
with the approval of this report, we are taking a step further in the right to repair so that the environment and our pockets are also aware of it.
mr president, reliability is a key aspect of sustainability.
supporting the facilitation of the repair of goods contributes to reducing waste, minimizing the depletion of resources and ultimately to mitigating our impact on the environment.
by extending product life through repairs, we reduce demand for new production, helping to save raw materials and energy.
global waste is due to grow by 70% at today’s levels by 2050 unless we act urgently.
to become climate neutral, deep emission cuts will always be at the core of our efforts, and i want you to know that there is no misunderstanding whatsoever on that first principle.
with your support for the ‘fit for 55’ package, you have already set the right pathway to reduce greenhouse gases as far as we can.
analysis shows that it is impossible to bring all our emissions completely, totally to zero.
and that means that carbon removals, that is to say, the absorption and storage of co2 in nature or industrial solutions, simply will have to be a part of the solution space in our journey to climate neutrality.
carbon removals will play a key role in the commission’s upcoming analysis of where the 2040 climate target could and should be.
in view of the challenge ahead, we will need to mobilise considerable investment in industrial carbon removal technologies, in carbon farming, such as peatland restoration or cover crops, and in carbon storage in long-lasting products, such as wooden buildings and, of course, in construction.
so it is truly excellent that you are about to vote on the first-ever european framework for carbon removal certification.
this tool will give farmers, foresters, companies a business case to invest in and deploy carbon removals.
with this framework, they can certify high-quality carbon removals that have robust climate and environmental benefits, and earn good money with it.
for example, by selling their certificates to banks that are keen to have a portfolio that is truly sustainable.
first, we agree that for carbon removals to work, we must fight greenwashing and instead create trust with transparent, high-quality carbon removals.
second, i see move in parliament to include emission reductions from livestock production in the carbon farming space.
if you would vote for it, let’s make sure that there is a clear distinction between emission reductions and carbon removals.
third, i see various proposals that task us, the commission, to follow up with work to improve the deployment and tracking of carbon removal products.
there are ideas in this esteemed parliament to have a europe-wide registry of certified carbon removals, or for the commission to come up with technical criteria to make carbon removals work.
so let’s go ahead and empower our rural communities and our industry to what is effectively a double win, for the climate and for business.
and with that win-win, the market can start a race to the top rather than to the bottom, and towards the carbon removals that our continent and the world so desperately need.
we need negative emissions, and we need them as soon as possible.
and this legislation is a very important step in getting us to negative emissions faster.
we will first see that private capital flows into these markets because there is a clearer framework now, and i also see this as an income opportunity for farmers who are farming carbon additional sources of income.
we must therefore start promoting this technology as quickly as possible, and i think that at least this technology should be included in european emissions trading as soon as possible.
so a clear signal: we need the negative emissions as soon as possible, and we need incentives for everyone who invests in this area.
i am very sure that this law, if we vote on it, will create a good framework for carbon regulation in the european union.
the world climate council also says that without negative emissions, our climate targets cannot be achieved even if we completely decarbonise energy production, if we completely transform the industry.
we will always have areas where emissions continue to occur, and that is why negative emissions are so important both technological and natural emissions.
and at the same time, we've had to see in the last few years that with the extraction of carbon, with the offsetting, there's been an incredible amount of scum, a lot of greenwashing.
the collapse of the verra dealership clearly shows that there is a pressing need for strict and good rules which we are proposing from the environment committee.
we are creating a standard on which companies, engineers, but especially our farmers can establish sustainable business models, and with this standard we also create trust.
i think we need to make sure that with every withdrawal, the restoration of biodiversity is actively supported.
all emissions, including those from land use, must be included so that the demand for biomass does not increase further.
– mr president, commissioner, colleagues, to achieve our climate targets, we need three things: we need drastic cuts in emissions; we need drastic increase of carbon removals; and we need viable businesses and farmers that can remove and sequester carbon from the atmosphere.
these two final points have so far been neglected a lot in the eu climate agenda, but that ends now.
as far as i know, this is the world’s first law in certifying carbon removals – with this proposal, with clear business opportunities for the companies and farmers who are doing the right things.
we are increasing the climate integrity as well as creating competitiveness for our companies.
this is only certifying the carbon removals.
the next steps is creating the market, boosting the market, stimulating the carbon removals that we much need in order to fulfil our climate agenda.
– mr president, the vote in the environment committee significantly improves the commission’s proposal, but that was a low bar.
this is still far from being a good climate instrument.
it could – and should – be used to facilitate a separate eu carbon removal target, which would facilitate a hugely significant move away from the net-zero basis of eu climate policy.
carbon removals should be a public good.
this is a question of climate justice.
removals will be a very limited resource in the near future, and what constitutes so-called unavoidable emissions should not be left to the markets and to those who can pay the most to decide.
we have set ourselves an important goal: we want to become climate neutral in the european union in about 25 years.
storing carbon in our soil can be an important component of this project, and it can become a real win-win situation, because every tonne of carbon that is absorbed from the air and stored as humus in the soil is a win-win for our climate.
and eventually, carbon farming can also become a business model in agriculture.
agriculture and forestry are a very important part of the solution to the climate crisis.
wherever plants grow, where photosynthesis takes place, carbon is stored and oxygen is produced.
we are taking an important step with this new regulation to create an incentive for farmers to make their contribution to climate protection even more efficient than before.
it represents a win-win, good for the environment and good for agriculture and carbon farming, with the potential to lock carbon into our soils, deliver on carbon capture, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, promote sustainable practices, while at the same time recognising and rewarding the effort of farmers.
we must ensure that the carbon certification framework is of the highest standard, that it has robust methodologies, ensures additionality, effective monitoring, reporting and verification in order to deliver the highest possible value for the market, for what would be genuine, true carbon credits.
all the speakers here agreed that it is necessary to adjust carbon absorption, that it is not only possible to adjust the emissions themselves that are and will be released, but if we want to be neutral, we must also address the existing carbon.
and without solving the existing carbon absorption, we really can't get to the commitments contained in, for example, the paris agreement.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to welcome this text which will allow us to appreciate all the efforts that producers have made and will make even more to make the transition to the environment.
the carbon certification mechanism presents a double opportunity.
they are also key players in climate change and that is why we need to accompany them.
but of course, we must be careful not only in terms of administrative burdens but also in terms of economic costs, since the remuneration of the certificates, the cost of carbon, will really enable farmers to get the most out of it.
mr president, what we risk doing with this eu certification process for carbon removals is creating a system that actually promotes greenwashing, instead of actually stopping it.
if we call everything we like a carbon removal and given an eu certificate of approval, then we will end up with a certification process that has absolutely no integrity.
i mean, we all want farmers to be rewarded for storing carbon through good agricultural practices.
but if we set up a system where we count everything from planting to grazing as a carbon removal activity, well, we are just going to have a junk certification process.
so let us certify real carbon removals, like the peatlands rewetting, agroforestry, so that we can promote no-regret, biodiversity-positive solutions.
otherwise we are only fooling ourselves, and we cannot cheat the climate – we are the only losers if we try and do that.
madam president, the science is clear that the climate and biodiversity crises are the biggest threats to global food security.
the main objective of the proposal is not to even ban pesticides, but to replace them with safe and sustainable alternatives.
but the majority in the environment committee has reinforced the commission's ambitious proposal in some areas, for example on the 2035 target.
it is not a point at all to emphasize and repeatedly demand a technology that we know we do not have enough of, and now even with the carbon correction factor, that the control over the achievement of climate targets is taken away from the vehicle manufacturers and given to the oil companies.
and no wonder the big manufacturers are against your idea of the carbon correction factor.
the manufacturers, including the unions, are quite clear: there is a solution for climate-neutral transport, even for trucks.
mr president, dear commissioner, the future for trucks and buses is electric, for better air quality in our towns and cities, and lower emissions.
every year 70 000 europeans die prematurely due to pollution from road transport.
it’s nonsensical to waste precious e-fuels on road transport.
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, you see today a really proud chair of the international trade committee because, in this global world of fragmentation, of a lot of troubled waters, we managed to agree on the most progressive and sustainable trade agreement of the european union ever.
for the first time, binding environmental measures and respect for indigenous peoples are included in this agreement.
i mean, it's been years since we talked on all the benches about the green deal, we absolutely want to reconcile climate and economic development, and we're all just complaining that we've finally signed an agreement with a country about 20,000 kilometres away.
this agreement with new zealand is a good example of how trade policy is changing, which now requires compliance with social and environmental standards.
it is also an extensive livestock farm necessary for rural areas and to take care of the environment.
– madam president, honourable members, there are probably two main topics which were discussed during today’s plenary concerning sustainability and agricultural sensitivity.
regarding our sustainability agenda, i think the situation is very clear.
sustainable trade has taken centre stage in the trade policy these days.
the commission has already made a number of proposals for a new directive on the protection of the environment.
the vote will be delivered tomorrow, wednesday 22 november 2023.
the following table sets out the report by frédérique ries on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on packaging and packaging waste, amending regulation (eu) 2019/1020 and directive (eu) 2019/904 and repealing directive 94/62/ec (com(2022) 0677 - c9-0400/2022 - 2022/0396(cod)) (a9-0319/2023)
deputising for the rapporteur.
the regulation of packaging and packaging waste has undoubtedly been one of the most hotly debated pieces in legislation in brussels in recent months, both in terms of profound paradigm shifts it proposes and the intensity of lobbying by the interested stakeholders.
the legislation is essential for the competitiveness of the european packaging sector, and stakes are high because, while packaging is essential for components of products, making them suitable for the transport and safe use, it is also an increasingly important source of waste.
with a report adopted in envi by a large majority, the rapporteur, frédérique ries, whom i represent today, has succeeded in aligning environmental ambitions with industrial reality.
in addition, as one of the rapporteurs’ main priorities, the report has added health dimensions to the environmental aspects of the dossier, with the addition of a ban on pfas chemicals, the forever pollutants, and bisphenol a in food packaging.
the committee on industry, research and energy adopted a resolution on the proposal for a council regulation (eec) on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the european economic community on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of moldova on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of moldova on the one hand, and the republic of moldova on the other.
we are positive and unhesitatingly share the purpose of this regulation reducing packaging waste and also the majority of the provisions contained therein.
what we have tried to change, with the opinion voted by a large majority in the itre, is an effort to reconcile the ambitious objectives proposed by the commission, and to share in part with reality, with the opinions, the observations of reality, the state of the art and even the great positive things that are there, so as not to penalize those who have done a great deal of work over the years to improve the quality of packaging, to put ever more sustainable packaging on the market and who have invested in recycling through research, investment and innovation.
– madam president, honourable members, thank you for this opportunity to address you today ahead of a vote that is crucial for our environment, our single market, our industries, and our citizens.
dear members of parliament, what we have on the table is a set of ambitious rules to take packaging on board our transition to climate neutrality and clean circular economy.
if we are to reverse the ever-growing amounts of waste and increase resource efficiency in the packaging sector, then we have to be ready for a change.
the measures we propose will deliver cost savings to consumers and benefits for the environment.
some of you call for additional flexibility, in particular on re-use targets, mandatory deposit and return systems and waste prevention in general.
the latest data on packaging waste showed that we have broken a new sad record.
between 2010 and 2021, our packaging waste grew by more than 24%, faster than gdp and even faster than recycling capacities.
in 2021 alone, we saw the highest increase in decade by 6% compared to 2020. this surge in packaging waste is a clear sign of persisting wasteful trends in resource use.
driven by single use in the eu, we now generate almost 190 kg of packaging waste per person every year.
the absolute volume of packaging waste for recycling will surely need to increase but the trends are clearly showing – and please note it – recycling is not enough.
losses are inevitable at every stage of recycling change, and primary materials are constantly needed to complement what comes from the recycling waste.
we must do more to reduce the degeneration of packaging waste, more to replace single-use packaging with sustainable solutions and help to roll out, reuse or refill systems.
we all want a more sustainable europe, where there is less packaging, but we cannot forget that this same europe has for years called for and supported research and innovation on recycling, has raised awareness, stressed and trained citizens on the differentiated and today suddenly changes direction, proposing a reuse system, without regard to the extraordinary results achieved in recycling, which can and must remain a parallel path to continue to achieve credible environmental, social and economic sustainability.
packaging is not only a problem but in many cases a guarantee: we think of the world of food, where we can consume fresh, healthy and, above all, safe food, helping to reduce waste.
i call on everyone to show common sense, to show a europe where political choices and environmental strategies are consistent, credible and, above all, pragmatic in the interests of citizens.
we have a large amount of packaging waste in europe today which certainly does not justify regulatory intervention like the one we are discussing, also because the vast majority of packaging waste is already perfectly integrated into the recycling chain.
the risk we face is that this regulation, which is so cumbersome and so difficult, will apply to less than 2% of the total waste produced.
you see, therefore, that it is not justified and serious to spend so many months on discipline in a sector where, for safety reasons, especially in the food and health sectors, the results achieved by the european union are already many and very high, very interesting, very sustainable.
– madam president, colleagues, it shouldn’t be a surprise to you that the junk food barons are not a reliable source of environmental advice, that lobbyists for plastic corporations are not authorities on sustainability.
yet, here we are, debating whether we should or should not tackle the mountain of packaging waste piling up in our towns and cities, all because of the corporate embrace of throwaway single-use culture.
if your single-use plastic cup is recycled into a single-use plastic bag, it is not sustainable.
if your plastic junk is swapped for cardboard junk, it is not sustainable.
if we continue to generate levels of waste at current rates, that is, by definition, unsustainable.
it's good that we all want to fight to reduce packaging waste, but let's not forget that packaging or the amount of packaging is directly proportional to the amount of fruit, the amount of food that the population consumes.
they simply become general waste.
even if this waste source was managed correctly, it’s only in use for an average of 13 minutes.’ considering the impact associated with deforestation, water stress, manufacturing, transportation and waste management, she said, ‘i don’t think its use justifies its existence.’ she said, ‘i would argue that watering down goals and policies sends the wrong message to people about political priorities and the true global risk of climate change.’ however, yet again, the epp have joined forces with the far right to do exactly that: to water down ambition at the behest of the private packaging industry.
a green deal that sounds nice, but in reality, it causes europe to lose its competitiveness completely, that we are actually developing an energy and business sector with e-mobility, the nuclear economy, which is political folly where you decide with a majority that insects can be added to our food.
italy's largest refinery, to escape control of a russian company, has ended up in control of an energy group controlled by a french-israeli billionaire who has been convicted of fraud in romania and switzerland.
all researchers deserve fair wages and a dignified working environment.
looking down, he saw life in the face of climate devastation and described it as ‘the strongest feelings of grief i have ever had’.
we do not have time to waste colonising our solar system.
it is a bonanza for the arms industry, whose money is obviously well spent wearing out the carpets in the commission and parliament in brussels, but a disaster for humankind, who need there to be a multilateral collaboration and a peaceful operating theatre in space in order to navigate the central threat to life on earth, the climate crisis.
madam president, this report on humanitarian aid strategy talks about increasing aid, preventive measures on conflict and the climate crisis, and ensuring sanctions do not hinder aid provision.
another report, heightened by the green alarm, which focuses on climate change without taking into account that europe as a continent is actually the least polluting.
and by the way, those of you who talk about green energy, let's see now how much electricity is produced by these coals and how much is produced by the feathers.
it employs 12,000 people and is the backbone of the region's economy and energy.
it’s very hard to have any fate at all in the revised initiative’s ability to halt pollinator decline after what happened in this chamber yesterday with the sustainable use of pesticides regulation vote.
there were 65 votes in favour of this report in the environment committee, 1 vote against and 3 abstentions.
covid-19, the war in ukraine and the resulting cost of living crisis have exasperated pre-existing structural challenges such as climate change, an ageing population and rising inequality.
madam president, the promotion of the nuclear industry this report proposes would be a waste of money, and it would do little to address the climate crisis.
they fail to address the persistent nuclear waste problem, and introduce new risks in terms of the proliferation of nuclear materials.
the ipcc ar6 report from march this year is absolutely clear that nuclear power is one of the two least effective mitigation options, alongside carbon capture and storage.
our focus should be on what we already know works to rapidly reduce emissions: energy efficiency and renewables.
the eu’s energy transition and climate policy framework.
we are currently completing the analysis on the upcoming 2040 climate target communication, but it is clear that we need all available technologies to play their role to the maximum in order to meet our climate objectives.
our utmost priority will remain that the new smr designs are developed in a way to ensure the highest standards of nuclear safety, radiation protection for workers and citizens, responsible management of radioactive waste and spent fuel, and the reliable non-proliferation regime.
this includes the electricity market design reform and the hydrogen and decarbonised gas market package to strengthen the business case of clean energy investments, and the net zero industry act for the european ecosystem for cleantech.
in energy, i personally always swear by the principle of in-in, which is all the sources of electricity that are replenished.
but we know that electricity today needs to be accessible, that it needs to be low-carbon and competitive, and that we need to have an energy mix that meets every need, regardless of the weather.
nuclear energy has been on the sidelines in europe in recent years, mostly for ideological reasons, and technology development has been stalled in many countries as well.
i also expect nuclear power, including small government reactors, to have conditions similar or identical to those of renewable energy.
it would be rather strange if we had to close nuclear power plants in france because we didn't get a certain percentage of renewable energy here in the european union.
i believe that the european investment bank will also classify and finance nuclear energy in a similar way to other low-carbon sources.
it is a clear fact that the european commission's failed sanctions policy and supply difficulties have led to a serious energy crisis which undermines the competitiveness of the european economy and industry in the long term.
in this situation, the long-term solution could be nuclear energy, which is a clean, stable and green energy source.
this may be the first resolution in 10 years to recognize the strategic importance of nuclear energy and the european nuclear supply chain.
finally, it should be noted that the report could be a milestone in the path towards breaking with the green anti-nuclear ideology that is plunging europe into an energy crisis.
however, for this to happen and for europe to finally pursue a sound energy policy, a change is needed in brussels.
the existing driving and resting time rules already have the potential to ensure a decent work environment for these drivers, and there is no reason to revise them.
based on a detailed impact assessment, the commission proposal aimed to stimulate healthier products by decreasing their sugar content, and also to promote healthier and more sustainable diets by improving the labelling of products, thereby empowering consumers to put greater knowledge behind their food choices.
you can count on the commission to do its part, so that we can close this file and open a new chapter for healthier and more sustainable diets for our citizens.
our dependence on these resources must be balanced by a clear understanding of the environmental and social impacts of their extraction and production, both on our continent and especially in the major producers outside the eu.
in this context, the tripartite agreement sets out measures aimed at ensuring both sustainable management of these resources and the promotion of new sustainable mining and production practices.
this agreement therefore offers us the opportunity to strengthen the strategic autonomy of our continent and to continue the transition to a net-zero-emission economy by 2050, but, commissioner, to combat real environmental and social disasters in extractive mines outside the eu.
we know that in europe we can produce, process and recycle these raw materials in a responsible way, both from an environmental and labour point of view.
it is equally important to invest more in research and product development in this sector and to seek to find replacement, sustainable raw materials and to actively engage in partnerships with like-minded countries in order to ensure that under all circumstances we have the capacity to operate.
instead, with the critical raw materials act, the eu is preparing to write a blank cheque for the mining and arms industries while pretending this is climate action.
these minerals have very little to do with the energy transition, but they are crucial for the arms industry and the f-22 stealth bomber contains 39% titanium.
yes, on trade, yes, on climate, but also on human rights and international security.
this will be the final nail in the coffin for eu industry and for essential cooperation on essential matters like climate change.
but on the other hand, there is of course also the interest of the whole system to not allow waste by not showing up in the system of dates that have been perceived.
the commission has already made a number of proposals for a new directive on the protection of the environment.
so issues like protecting critical infrastructure, media, online networks, information security, energy security and closing legal loopholes are being used by actors who exploit those loopholes in our security systems.
the weaponisation of knowledge, scientific research and technological advances is a real threat to the major challenges facing us – climate change, new health crisis and digitalisation require a different type of cooperative approach.
mr president, mr commissioner, the russian aggression is of course the worst loss of human life, the suffering of people, but the pollution of the environment, the destruction of water resources, the destruction of soil, it is a loss not only for this generation but also for future generations.
devastating environmental consequences: a 12-month interim assessment calculated emissions equivalent to the total annual greenhouse gas output of belgium, and that is before you look at fracked gas imports, energy costs by the fossil fuel companies and nord stream 2 – a calamity from start to finish.
mr president, it is difficult to take your concern for the environmental consequences of the war in ukraine seriously.
how can the same people who voted to pour tens of billions in arms into keeping a nato proxy war going, now pretend to care about the environmental consequences?
did you care about the environmental impact of the wars of yugoslavia, afghanistan, iraq, libya, yemen or even gaza today?
do you care about the environmental impact of the brutal sanctions regimes in place against venezuela, syria, iran, zimbabwe, yemen?
whatever about the environment?
show me the campaign to bring accountability for the environmental crimes of nato.
people that care about the environment don’t promote war.
the eu has supported initiatives as outlined by the commissioner, like the affordable housing, energy efficiency and urban development and more is needed, specifically targeting our young people.
expand the windfall tax to target profiteering that is driving rent increases, and deliver an eu renovation fund to reduce energy bills.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me reiterate a concept that remains our polar star and which president meloni clearly expressed at the dubai conference: the european union and the world need an ecological transition, not an ideological one.
our idea is that if we want to be credible in the face of the environmental imbalance affecting future generations and if we want environmental sustainability that does not compromise the economic and social sphere, we cannot give up a technological neutrality approach that is free of radicalism and aims to strengthen markets.
cop28 must be a turning point; we share reasonable and concrete policies and actions, such as implementing renewable energy generation capacity and increasing the overall rate of improvement in energy efficiency.
the transition from fossil fuels, as set out in the recent resolution, must be accompanied, in our view, by an energy and climate plan focused on biofuels, nuclear and hydrogen.
the model we suggest is the italian government's mattei plan, in which energy is one of the pillars of the development of the continent.
while personally disappointed not to be there, it sets a clear direction for a sustainable future.
the agreement signifies a substantial step forward for countries committed to addressing the climate crisis.
in particular, it includes calls for the tripling of renewable energy capacity globally by 2030. there are many other positive aspects of the outcome.
mr president, colleagues, global warming is accelerating at speed.
we knew climate change was coming, and the dinosaurs in the oil companies knew too.
i mean, can we really celebrate this when, even with the newly submitted revised climate targets, we’re still on our way to a world of over three degrees?
and it might be surprising for people outside of here to know that the eu’s relations with china in the field of climate change have been absolutely excellent cooperation, far better than the yo-yo approach of the us.
we need to become a bridge-builder, not just in the area of climate change, but also in the area of peace and anti-war because you can’t protect the environment if you support war.
what we need is an energy transition that’s planned and fair.
we need a decarbonised energy system that actually benefits ordinary people.
with wind turbines going up, people need to see their energy bills go down.
ireland, like the rest of europe, saw a drastic increase in energy bills last year because of the whims of our liberalised energy market.
we need to stop the price roller coaster and instead rapidly roll out energy infrastructure which local communities can see they’re benefiting.
they’ve had illegal practices by the management company using its monopoly power to overcharge and disconnect them in terms of energy supplies, without any consumer protection – protection which is guaranteed to them in eu law that they would have a direct connection to the electricity and energy supply.