this is why the summit, which will bring together leaders from both regions of the world in brussels this year after eight years of waiting, must relaunch the relations between the two regions that are needed to advance the cause of sustainability and social justice at the global level.
the moves of our global competitors advise us to complete outstanding agreements, such as mercosur, and open new chapters of cooperation, with mechanisms such as the global gateway in digitalization, energy, transport and governance.
this relationship must be developed on an equal footing and based on mutual respect, with agendas that go beyond trade and investment and include fundamental issues such as the fight against climate change and social inequalities, the defence of human rights, shared development, the protection of nature and biodiversity, feminism, the defence of democratic institutions, the fight against organised crime or respect for indigenous peoples and self-determination.
there is no doubt that the european union needs to strengthen its relations with latin america and the caribbean in order to strengthen our model of democracy based on principles and values, which is more important today than ever, as we have just seen in the events in brazil, to strengthen our economic and trade relations based on fair, responsible, sustainable trade, protecting the rights of individuals and, of course, to face the great challenges of today.
we can't waste any more time.
i hope that the increased commitment of the lula government to the fight against climate change will favour the mercosur agreement.
one thing is clear: the green and digital transitions will be just and sustainable only if enough countries around the globe join us in this endeavour.
this legislation creates a $370 billion package of subsidies and tax credits to develop an ecosystem of advanced technologies to foster the climate transition and to promote american leadership in these sectors.
our european model consists of a social market economy that implies for very good reasons higher labour and environmental costs, and the current energy crisis means that we have to face high energy costs for the foreseeable future.
if we believe in the strategic autonomy of the european union, if we believe that it makes sense to socialise the financial means needed to invest in tomorrow's digital and climate technologies, we must also have the ambition, i believe, to socialise the benefits and take into account the interest of investing in equity capital.
on the energy front, you have been able to follow the debates - i think we have made good progress since our last meeting in this parliament - on the council's ability, after a proposal from the commission, to agree on a ceiling for the price of gas.
progress has also been made in terms of energy efficiency, but it is clear that this subject will continue to be a major concern for us, especially when the commission makes the proposal on the reform of the electricity market, which is also an extremely important subject.
on the one hand, the energy issue: guaranteeing sovereignty, also guaranteeing that the climate challenge is taken into account and the need to guarantee support for our families, the competitiveness of companies, the first element.
and most importantly, we managed to double the amount of additional renewable energy that was coming to our market during the last year.
and here, the joint energy platform is up and running.
because not only are our energy systems at a crossroads: the competitiveness of the whole of our economy needs to be maintained and this transformational task is huge.
the international energy agency estimates that the market for mass—manufactured clean energy tech will be worth around usd 650 billion a year – a year!
we need to create a regulatory environment that allows us to scale up fast and to create conducive conditions for the clean—tech industry.
last year we have managed to reduce our dependency on russian gas, on russian energy.
we have taken first measures to reduce prices of energy in europe, and this year, with the measures announced by the president, with the measures that we are going to do together, buying together, storing together, we are going to make sure that prices remain predictable, controllable, no more price—hikes in the future.
we reject the narratives of fear, and we want to finally advance on finding sustainable solutions based on solidarity and the individual right of asylum.
maybe in 2022, then, the late rallying of the united states to the climate emergency would have made us happy and we would have waited for it with a firm footing, because by then we would have been so far ahead that the competitiveness of our economy would not have been at risk.
and i want to see proof of this in the fact that the energy war being waged by the russian president has produced energy savings that even the president of the commission could not have imagined: when you said minus 15%, we did better than that.
in other words, to respond to covid, we found collective energy on the basis of a commission plan and with unanimous agreement in the council, which was still not easy to obtain.
as regards energy, which is the most pressing issue, i share in part what president van der leyen said: it is true that the european union has moved along in these difficult months, but perhaps the result and the situation, which is less bad than we expected this winter, are not so much due to the efficiency of the measures put in place, but rather to exogenous and favourable conditions, which are not dependent on it.
this should be a reason to encourage us to work more concretely on two lines: the first is energy independence, which is still far from being achieved, and the second is the evaluation of a green transition, which must be pragmatic and not ideological.
and as far as russia is concerned, it is true that the measures have been quite effective, but it is also true that russian energy products, bypassing the sanctions, continue to arrive in europe in a significant way.
so we need to see real solidarity: rent freezes; pay rises; a ban on energy disconnections; concrete economic and social support for all workers and families.
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, on the current energy crisis, we as the five star movement would have preferred more courage and more ambition on the part of this union.
the gas price ceiling is difficult to achieve and the necessary investments to replace gas with a mix of policies based on renewables and energy savings are lacking.
a recovery based on energy.
madam president, the ongoing energy crisis, inflation, the american inflation reduction act – all this is casting a large shadow over our economies.
it is an essential element, it must be strengthened absolutely and its powers can also be increased, i think, for example, the question of environmental crimes.
it is a sustainable, more selective and less polluting fishery, carried out with the sacrifices and passion of our fishermen, strong and proud men and women, who guarantee us healthy and quality products.
their value and strategic role at economic, environmental and social levels must be recognised, given the employment and growth impact of coastal lagoon communities.
such tax breaks for fossil fuels are not only disastrous for the oceans, but also for the climate.
this segment is key to promoting more sustainable management of marine resources.
and that requires improving the position of fishermen in the value chain so that they receive an income consistent with their activity and contribution to the european union's diet, which they enrich with sustainable, quality and guaranteed products.
my country, galicia, is a seafaring people, where men and women work in small-scale fishing and catch shellfish, shellfish, and in mussel farming, which feeds many families, has a low environmental impact, uses sustainable fishing gear and respects the biological cycles of the different species.
the future of small-scale, coastal and artisanal fishing depends not only on long-term, sustainable measures but also on immediate, meaningful and public measures.
it is against these directives, which impose a deadly european centralism and pseudo-ecological dogmatic summonses, that our fishermen must fight to survive.
and yes, ladies and gentlemen, we must already, in the midst of the energy and inflationary crisis, make the exemption from fuel taxes for the fisheries sector permanent.
fisheries are at a critical juncture and it is up to the european institutions and the member states to put in place a system that combines environmental and economic sustainability, while safeguarding the activities of all.
as in 2009, the legal framework for the establishment of european works councils needs to be adapted to the changing legislative, economic and social environment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a revision of the energy performance of buildings directive requires that new buildings be zero emission by 2030 and existing buildings by 2050, with intermediate steps for residential buildings, which must reach energy class e in 2030 and d in 2033. according to these criteria, more than 9 million out of 12 million buildings in italy would be out of order, with the consequence that italians would be required to urgently renovate two out of three houses, with negative repercussions on the country's economy.
the next item is the report by mr jan huiteman, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive on co2 emission standards for passenger cars and vans (com (2021) 0556 - c9-0322/2021 - 2021/0197 (cod)) (a9-0150/2022).
the european parliament is committed to achieving the paris climate targets and the objectives of the european green deal.
in addition to the climate, the european parliament attaches great importance to consumers and workers in the automotive sector.
a climate-friendly and affordable alternative is therefore of great importance.
it is an important climate measure and will reduce our dependence on fossil fuels from third countries.
they have negotiated a text on behalf of parliament which strikes a fantastic balance between the interests of industry, the interests of the climate and the interests of workers in particular.
we need to skill and reskill our workforce to have a sustainable job in the car industry of the future.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, with a lot of work and intelligence, we have reached a historic agreement that reconciles the car and the climate.
we are at the very heart of great ecological theories, we are doing ecological planning.
i would remind you that transport accounts for a quarter of the european union's co2 emissions.
light vehicles alone are responsible for about 10% of emissions in the eu.
so, no choice: the automotive industry must play its part and do its part to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. but if the automotive industry is playing along, this time we'll have to go along.
they have nothing ecological and they have nothing affordable.
then we move on to the heavyweights: same effects on the climate, same mechanism.
the european parliament will be able to look at it today, as the commission prepares to present its roadmap on co2 emissions from trucks.
this is the meaning of our fight for the climate, this is what the scientists ask us, this is our responsibility to the future generations, who are in the street, who are walking and asking us to act.
and this file is crucial; it’s crucial to reach climate neutrality.
and i just want to remind my colleagues who are now complaining: in 2020 they all signed up to climate emergency, in 2021 they all signed up to a climate law where climate neutrality is enshrined in our law now.
and that is also why we as greens, who always have shown that competitiveness, innovation and climate action go hand in hand.
also, the trucks should go to zero emissions if we want to take the climate neutrality serious, because trucks are still the easier to abate sector if you look at airplanes and ships.
so please, commission, step up your game on trucks so that we can really deliver on climate neutrality and innovation on this very important sector within europe.
we are all in favour of reducing emissions, of course, but we, as the ecr group, have some problems.
if we talk about environmental issues – and again i go back to the measurement on the tailpipe – i’ve seen mining operations in africa and in a lot of countries and i can assure you that the impact on the environment is horrible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the obsessive pursuit of climate neutrality is likely to create a real social tragedy.
i want to express my deep concern in this house that, in the face of premature political assessments, the economic, industrial, social and environmental costs of the transition have been underestimated.
once again, if we do not reverse course and tackle the issue of climate neutrality with some healthy realism, it will be households and businesses that will pay the price for the shortsightedness of european bureaucrats.
we are working, commissioner, to reduce pollution, it is right to do so, but not in this way.
in addition to the humanitarian crisis, i would also like to mention the biodiversity crisis.
unfortunately, the ecb seems to be more interested in climate policy than in skyrocketing inflation.
i would like to convey this message to mrs lagarde: you focus on fighting inflation, you leave climate policy to politicians, and you let countries sort out their own budgets.
however, we know that inflation is mainly driven by fossil fuel prices, by corporate windfall profits, as the ecb itself has pointed out, and is the consequence of decades of delay in the ecological transition.
the ecb itself has acknowledged that the rate hike cannot bring down energy prices, but instead will negatively affect the borrowing costs of firms and households, including mortgages, investments in energy efficiency and the boost also, why not, of renewables.
the current inflation can only be addressed by accelerating the energy transition once and for all.
the best way to fight inflation is not to punish households more, but to accelerate the ecological transition.
other objectives, including those in the field of climate policy, are subordinate to the objective of price stability.
sanctions against russia have sent energy and food prices, which are already rising, skyrocketing.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, as well as president lagarde for her work, particularly in the ecb’s interest in the energy performance of buildings directive (epbd) for which i am rapporteur.
inflation driven by high energy costs demonstrates the need for the ecb to further incentivise renovations in order to fulfil its price stability mandate.
in my view, the epbd is as much about assets and investment protection as it is climate change, as low epc—rated buildings will be less valuable.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president lagarde, commissioner mcguinness, in commenting on the ecb's 2022 report, it is necessary to point out that the current increase in inflation is due to the sudden rise in energy and commodity prices, not only because of the war, but even earlier because of previous choices on green policies, which are not sustainable for the maintenance of the previous european industrial capacity.
the ecb's action can correct neither the causes nor the structural effects of this inflation, but can only achieve the irreversibility of widespread deindustrialization, by adding to an unresolved supply-side problem also a demand crisis, related to increased unemployment and job insecurity, which are already affecting, with the reduction of real wages, the essential living standards, with expensive energy and the increase in the cost of financing for businesses and households.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner mcguinness, we have already seen in the 'fit for 55' package of proposals that the ideological approach to the energy transition so far is creating potentially devastating distortions, particularly in terms of increasing costs for firms and households already affected by the pandemic and war.
to this end, i therefore believe it is appropriate and urgent to prepare a study on the real level of dependence of our economy on chinese supply chains, in particular in the renewable energy, metals, electronics and pharmaceutical sectors.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am glad that this debate is taking place, because finally on the question of rare earths the whole of the shortcomings of european energy policy will be revealed, as will the hypocrisy of the commission and the stupidity with which you claim to save the world without realizing that you are massacring it by imposing on us a model of sustainability which is not sustainable at all.
and that's because while you force us to buy electric cars, which contain from nine to eleven kilos of rare earths, which in their production cycle consume, according to researchers at the university of california, three to four times the energy needed for a car with a combustion engine, you don't consider the consequences of these choices.
for example, the environmental consequences.
moreover, supporting the change in our energy model already requires doubling the production of rare earths every 15 years or so, and over the next 30 years more minerals will need to be extracted than have been extracted by mankind in the last 70,000 years, and some may already be exhausted in the next four or five years.
the reality is that you base your environmental ideologies on lies and omissions.
yes, because germany, sweden, france and many other european countries have deposits of rare earths, but they don't mine them because they pollute, and so they decided to relocate the environmental impact and pollution from mining to poor countries, ready to sacrifice their environment to get rich, without considering that the consequences, however, we will all pay.
on rare earths, which are always too little talked about, the end of european leadership will probably be consummated, but some will be happy because, even if we have a poorer continent, we will have achieved climate neutrality, but again on the skin of citizens who can do nothing about it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cycling mobility brings many environmental and social benefits and makes an important contribution to europe's economic growth.
the european union must rely on its farmers and give them all the tools to create a sustainable value chain.
in addition, we have called for the regional deployment of small and medium-scale biogas plants dedicated to the production of fertilisers, particularly digestate and energy, to be increased.
this resolution brings some common sense to the european parliament on agriculture and its environmental commitments.
first, the use of new digital spraying technologies which can reduce the amount of fertiliser by up to 90%, while maintaining its efficiency, resulting in cost savings and reduced pollution.
secondly, the promotion and development of organic fertilisers from agricultural waste, which we should strongly support, because in this way our producers would be part of the production chain in the microbiological processes to produce natural fertilisers and would have a new chance to offer healthy products at affordable prices.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
if we want to help the sector, we must also reduce the bureaucratic procedures for obtaining aid which cause so many delays and so much economic and environmental damage.
the resolution we are about to vote on is an important and positive one, and i believe that all the groups will support it, and it puts agriculture back in the centre of the debate in relation to the environmental pressures which have been strongly felt in this sector in recent years.
we need energy plans, we need economic support, we need the ability to give our agriculture a competitive framework, which unfortunately is worldwide and which has to face competition from those who are not subject to a system of rules like ours.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, under the pretext of protecting the environment, the european left has finally succeeded in inventing a hidden asset on the home of the italians, going to attack the shelter par excellence, the fruit of the work and sacrifices of a lifetime.
this is a rule which is not applicable to our country, where 75% of buildings are in an energy class below d, and to restructure the frames, according to the data of the ance manufacturers, it would take 630 years instead of the 7 granted by the directive.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, italy has given 110% of its fiscal resources to make the energy leap and in two years they have built less than 500 000 apartments.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's environmental plan is still a disaster.
globally, 33 percent of the total global emissions of harmful gases are the fault of china: alone and i say, alone!
has not yet reached its peak emissions.
the eu was one of the most exposed advanced economies to downward risks, given its proximity to ukraine and also the heavy reliance on energy imports, particularly on gas from russia.
the impact of high energy prices and the subsequent inflation led to the erosion of household purchasing power and industry competitiveness, in particular that of smes.
so, on the one hand, we all know that the low and stable inflation rate will be an important condition for long—term sustainable economic growth and so it is important to intervene on inflation.
so investment in renewables and energy efficiency, for example, could also suffer, although these are precisely the investments required to reduce reliance on imported fossil fuels and structurally limit inflation driven by energy prices.
so in this regard, we need adequate and coordinated fiscal, structural and regulatory policies that complement the ecb’s monetary policy actions in order to support household incomes and provide targeted and temporary support to companies suffering from supply bottlenecks and high energy costs.
and in the transatlantic dialogue, we know that for our biggest and most important ally, the united states, it has become a matter of national security, the concept that whoever is leading the enabling and emerging technologies, from energy to biomedical sciences, from artificial intelligence to quantum computing, will emerge as a world leader and will be able to wield soft power and hard power better than anyone else.
our principles and values are not for sale, and there should be no quantities of energy resources that can call that certainty into question, otherwise what would be left of our union?
as azerbaijan is a strategic supplier of fossil fuel energy, it is essential that eu and azerbaijan work on enhanced cooperation outside the energy sector.
it is vital that azerbaijan and armenia come to a timely agreement on a sustainable peace treaty while respecting the principles of the helsinki final act.
therefore, we have an interest in continuing our good cooperation – particularly when it comes to energy – cooperation on reforms, trade and investments.
we firmly believe that the rule of law, human rights and democratic institutions are the fundamentals of an independent, stable and prosperous country, and the condition for a constructive business environment.
our cooperation with azerbaijan in the energy sector has intensified.
a memorandum of understanding on a strategic partnership in the field of energy was signed in july last year in baku.
as you also acknowledged in the report, this cooperation is more important than ever for ensuring diversification of europe’s energy supplies, bringing new, reliable sources of energy to europe.
connectivity and energy are key elements of the economic and investment plan, which aims to mobilise up to eur 2 billion of public and private investments in azerbaijan.
we strongly condemn the recent military aggression by azerbaijan on the sovereign territory of armenia in september 2022. azerbaijan is a strategic partner for the european union's energy independence.
i can assure you that our intensified energy cooperation with azerbaijan does not sideline our continuous efforts to advocate for human rights and the rule of law in our dialogue with azerbaijan.
madam president, i voted against the report with conviction because the mandatory annual reductions in greenhouse gas emissions that are binding on member states, the so-called 'effort-sharing regulation', are nothing more than so-called 'green extremism'.
existing legislation sets binding national greenhouse gas targets for each of the 27 member states of the european union, which together amount to a 30% reduction in emissions by 2030. the base year is 2005. the proposal that is being voted on raises that figure to 40% once again.
this shared effort provision applies to greenhouse gas emissions from sectors not covered by the eu emissions trading system, such as petrol and diesel used in road transport or heating fuels and fertilisers, where appropriate.
in order to reduce emissions in those sectors for the period 2021 to 2030, the regulation sets binding national targets and establishes annual emission allocations for each member state.
as part of the package of measures developed for target 55, this regulation covers greenhouse gas emissions resulting from direct human activities in land use.
this is an important area with a high potential to contribute to the mitigation of emissions in the eu.
the revision of the regulation aims to promote the treatment of forests and soils in such a way that they absorb the maximum greenhouse gases.
madam president, the process of improving the energy efficiency of buildings is undoubtedly important.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has today adopted a revision of the energy performance of buildings directive and i would like to explain why i did not vote in favour of this proposal.
of course i am in favour of energy savings, but i am convinced that the member states are capable of dealing with this requirement on their own behalf in the interests of their citizens, because we all want to save energy.
in addition, there is already legislation outside the directive dealing with energy efficiency improvements, including carbon pricing or an approved energy efficiency directive.
the european union is supposed to help member states cope with the challenges of emissions reduction and better functioning.
just one example to illustrate the challenge: the eu’s energy trade deficit in 2022 represented some 4% of our gdp, compared with 1.7% in 2021, while the united states has seen its surplus increase threefold during the same period.
energy exports in united states have increased by 60% in 2022. last december, the european council asked the commission to present ways of helping our industry drive forward our green and digital transition, especially in the context of more targeted state interventions, including by the united states.
both of them are simultaneously a climate strategy and a strategy for investment and growth.
only on carbon pricing – a very important instrument – the united states system is still much more limited than ours.
you can see exemplary european companies there doing just that: diversifying and strengthening our supply chains, for instance, sourcing low-carbon nickel to produce batteries here in the european union.
it guarantees that raw materials are mined with the highest standards for the environment and for workers.
honourable members, with the war on our doorstep, with volatile energy prices and massive clean—tech investments worldwide, europe has to up its game.
high energy prices, the rise in the cost of food, with a food cpi already above 18%, and the unaffordable price of housing are shaking the future of europeans.
there is no better solution than to accelerate the ecological transition and energy autonomy.
because the european green deal, we can say that it is a climate project, yes, of course, because the climate issue is a matter of survival.
so to slack off now, as we feel with cars or the energy performance of buildings, well, to slack off is actually to sabotage our economy.
and while it is good news that we have achieved independence from russian gas and oil in a short time, we do not think it is good news to shift our energy dependence to china for years to come.
it is difficult, ladies and gentlemen, to be competitive when the union's policies are so zealous, for example, in the field of climate and energy.
in addition, european countries prefer to ignore certain criminal organizations, such as those involved in the trafficking of waste to the poorest countries, a trafficking closely linked to arms trafficking, often covered up by international cooperation or by associations pretending to have humanitarian aims.
our discussions focused on three topics: the war in ukraine, climate change and reform in the global financial system.
the eu and united nations also cooperate on many global issues such as climate change and, for example, we have seen recently with the historic agreement on the high seas treaty.
the 27 eu leaders also reaffirmed their commitment to the 2030 agenda and its sustainable development goals, and re-discussed the importance of reforming the global financial system to fight poverty and to make the world fairer.
the eu needs to become a powerhouse of innovation, especially in areas with tremendous growth potential like renewable and cleantech.
this is especially concerning because, according to the international energy agency, renewables will account for over 90% of global electricity expansion in the next five years.
it will create a regulatory environment that is conducive to scaling up the clean tech industry in europe, so precisely the gap that we have right now, in order to fill this gap and to really encourage scaling—up.
of course, this dependency that we have on imports threatens not only our climate and digital objectives, but also weakens our industrial base.
we as the epp always had a clear line about supporting a technological, open approach, if fuels can be part of a climate-neutral future.
it's part of this planet, and, if only for climate change, we know that we are dependent on each other.
finally, and this is new - climate change and planetary boundaries are forcing us to do this - it's regulatory convergence.
i say convergence: it does not mean instantaneous regulatory identity, but regulatory convergence, particularly in social and environmental matters.
the problem we have -- and this is where we probably have a nuance with the enthusiastic speeches, including malik's a moment ago, or manfred's a moment before -- is that all the negotiating mandates for the treaties that are being discussed have been decided, have been adopted in the world before: the world before the pandemic, the world before climate awareness, the world before the war.
and so we really have to ask ourselves the question of how far we need to revise the agreements - and mercosur is a good example - to bring them into line with the strategic, climate, social and environmental objectives of the european union.
the union must set objectives, including environmental ones, but leave it to the member states to choose how they are to be achieved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has proposed that cattle farming be included in the scope of the directive on industrial emissions.
over the period 1990-2020, italy has reduced its emissions by about a quarter, while morocco and turkey have increased their emissions by 23% and india by 21%.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of this regulation is multifaceted: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation and to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation.
these initiatives will have to be followed by other measures which may affect imports into the european union in order to better guarantee food and environmental security and social guarantees.
mr president, drought, extreme weather events and energy dependence on non-european countries are showing us that the energy transition can no longer be postponed.
it is clear that the social and environmental costs of the delays accumulated over the years are very high, and that they are being passed on to the weakest members of our society, fuelling poverty and inequality.
this shows that the energy transition is doomed to fail if we do not approach it with ambition and pragmatism.
the social climate fund is therefore needed for those households that do not have the means to make their homes more energy sustainable, but also for small businesses that are unable to reduce emissions in road transport and construction and therefore need to be accompanied by targeted policies and instruments.
i'm talking about the dramatic increase in inequality and therefore poverty and the climate and environmental emergency.
article 25 of the eu directive, the corporate sustainability due diligence directive, states the obligation for companies with more than 250 employees to assess environmental and social sustainability in the short, medium and long term.
benefit societies must be the future and it must become economically and image-wise cost-effective for every business to be 100 per cent sustainable.
even looking at what is happening in africa, which concerns us very closely, and always keeping in mind the climate and environmental emergency that china cannot ignore.
let's not waste any more time, please, let's unite and act together.
this has led to lower prices and thus to an acceptable level of energy security, thanks to high levels of gas in storage.
energy storage, important as it is, cannot replace the imports that are lacking.
a thought: the increase in lng imports in 2022 was made possible by a particular situation, with a decrease in demand from china, from south east asian markets, although the international energy agency warned that a return of purchases by china to significant levels such as those in 2021 could cause europe to face a fuel shortage, with a gap between demand and supply of 27 billion cubic meters.
madam president, the industrial and geopolitical future of europe is mainly in the field of energy.
for years it has demonized gas, a resource which has proved to be strategic and will remain so for many years to come, it has struck energy agreements with unstable and unreliable countries such as azerbaijan, and above all it has not backed down a millimeter in its mad rush towards the electric transition.
i welcome the fact that your efforts are being directed towards the parliament's essential objectives of energy security, environment, job creation and support for employment in ukraine.
i would like to draw particular attention to the importance of improving energy security.
it is necessary to ensure that the main sources of energy, energy storage, energy in-house and energy efficiency are not used in the same way.
we need funding to support energy efficiency efforts and to build homes so that they can achieve their environmental goals.
this is a defence capability that member states have decided to plan, as enshrined in the new european defence doctrine, the strategic compass, and sustainability, the continued availability of forces and adequate levels of readiness are required.
madam president, today i supported the report on sustainable carbon cycles, which does not introduce new legislation yet, but is in fact the european parliament's position on the european commission's intention to set up certain rules to incentivise and reward farmers who voluntarily engage in farming towards sustainable practices and the promotion of biodiversity.
we highlight the opportunity for farmers and forest managers to change their business model by turning carbon storage, so-called carbon agriculture, into a source of income.
in our view, carbon management should be voluntary and the rewarding of the process must be scientifically demonstrable and have a positive impact on the climate and the environment.
carbon capture is a real technological challenge.
perhaps one of the older methods that i could mention here is that if you make a very high-quality table out of wood that will last for decades, maybe even centuries, you've done a lot of work, because there's a lot of carbon trapped in that wood.
we need to use all the potential of carbon capture, both in agriculture, as my colleague has spoken about, and in the field of taking it directly from the atmosphere and putting it into products like this.
speaking of another fundamental challenge to which you have referred, the climate, in spain the popular party and the far right of vox are endangering the future of a natural jewel like doñana, and political leaders like the vice-president of my region, castilla y león, say that we should leave the children alone, who will decide when they are older whether co2 is a polluting gas or not.
finally, as regards your advocacy for the ecological transition, i have often wondered: 'but in the end, among the 27 heads of state or government, who is really the champion of the green deal?
so it is only by ensuring a european strategy based - as you have said, commissioner - on scientific evidence, coherence, synergies with the environment, labour, chemicals, water, soil and waste that we can ensure the full implementation of what the commission is proposing.
ensuring a clean environment while protecting public health is the challenge not of the next decade but of the next century.
this is a report, the one we are discussing, which calls for radical changes in the food sector, in the energy sector, in transport, even in the food sector, in order to achieve the goal of reducing emissions.
you have banned the sale of petrol cars, we have asked the member states to rebuild all their buildings, you have asked europeans not to eat meat, all in the name of the fight to cut emissions.
and all this without any consideration for the social and economic repercussions that derive from this stigma of europe as the only one to blame for global warming.
over 92% of emissions come from outside europe.
mr president, climate change is dividing the scientific community as well.
some scientists believe that climate change is part of the natural cycle of world history, while others believe that it threatens the future of the planet.
in the middle ages, nobody would have discussed co2 emissions, and environmentalists in 1200 would have all been unemployed.
the answer to the pollution of the planet is more development, not less.
the technological and energy transition can happen, but it has to happen at the right time, otherwise we risk impoverishing people and starving them to death, not from overheating.
we have the opportunity to live in balance with nature and to deal with climate change without succumbing, the solution is technology, progress, without hysteria and without catastrophism.
in the middle ages, there were no industries, there was no industrial revolution, but it is precisely thanks to the industrial revolution and, let's say, also thanks to emissions, that progress makes us live to 90 and not die at 20. unfortunately, it has contraindications, of course, the industrial revolution has pollution, but without that industrial revolution you would not be here today, we would not have come by car, we would not have returned home by plane.
i agree that there must be an ecological transition, but we must do it at the right time, not by impoverishing people, not by degrowth.
this selective austerity is creating a double injustice, both social and climate.
should it finance fossil fuels, bank bailouts, tax breaks for the richest, or, on the contrary, fight climate change, make our societies more just and resilient in the uncertain world that is ours?
secondly, we propose that the sustainability of debt should now be assessed in the light of climate risk.
in short, more public debt today for less ecological, social and financial debt tomorrow.
third, medium-term fiscal structural plans are good in terms of predictability, but in the current challenging environment, fiscal policy should have the flexibility to act as a buffer if needed in the event of disruption in other sectors of the economy.
and yes, while we recognise that different countries are in different situations and they have different paths towards debt sustainability, the overall objective needs to be for a debt to be low because only with low debt we can help in times of crisis.
credibility is measured by the economic, social and political sustainability of those rules.
and if rules are not sustainable over time, governance is not credible.
the proposals are already moving in the right direction, but frankly, i believe that something more needs to be done to guarantee an adequate level of public investment, because these investments are key to growth in private investments as well, and these will ensure the digital, environmental and social transition challenges that we have ahead of us and this is what really we need to do to meet our citizens’ expectations.
for years, there has been talk of reforming the stability pact and there was an expectation that action would be taken on its main problem, namely the thresholds, especially after the pact had to be suspended in the covid-19 pandemic precisely because they were not sustainable thresholds.
without new resources, member states could never meet the european objectives of the new green deal and the sustainable transition.
at the same time, we must be realistic and set standards that are achievable, at sustainable costs: in my region, veneto, the monitoring authorities will have to monitor more than 900 water bodies and they tell us that they need timing and methods to meet the new standards.
this government, light years away from the living room environmentalism, will always defend the pockets of italians, because environmental sustainability cannot exist without that... (the president takes the floor from the speaker).
it was not designed to meet the challenge of so many people on the move, especially in a time of mass forced displacement or when new forms of large-scale displacement linked to climate change or natural disasters appear’.
finding sustainable solutions in countries of origin, transit and destination is the only way.
in niger, i met women from host and refugee communities working together to grow crops and re-green the environment, to breed goats, to make soap.
a clear message out of the most recent un general assembly is: if we do not include refugees in the sustainable development goals, the sdgs themselves will fail.
two projects took joint second place: the european correspondent from the netherlands and the mobile climate museum from lithuania.
the european correspondent brings together young european journalists in support of european journalism, while the mobile climate museum encourages young people to adopt a more climate-friendly lifestyle.
the union has instruments and we will activate them, but this fourth natural disaster calls once again on us to reaffirm the need to secure areas at risk of a water disaster and to strengthen action to combat and adapt to the risks of climate change.
the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment.
the palestinians have the right to a stable political future with a government that has the interests of its people at heart and a vision for a sustainable economic future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment.
in order to be politically strong, the european union must be economically strong and energy independent.
in this regard, i have appreciated the passage on mitigating the effects of global warming.
it is on securing territories in the face of extreme weather events that we must concentrate our efforts, instead of focusing solely on our co2 emissions, which are now residual to the rest of the planet.
i think there is a big gap in this argument, however, the absence of energy diplomacy, because europe must not become the world's traffic-restricted zone.
we have faced several legislative overlays: the directive on energy performance in buildings, which in italy citizens have come to know as the greenhouse directive, has a very unrealistic roadmap.
we strongly support the compromise reached in the envi committee to ensure a cleaner environment, listening to the needs of industry and thus safeguarding employment.
consider another aspect: we have introduced a taxation of emissions to european companies at the legislative level with the ets and other instruments, such as cbam at the border, which will potentially create a risk of competitiveness for our companies, because our international partners have told us that these instruments will not be adopted.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard from the commissioner a long list of projects shared with the biden administration by the european union, some of which are not shared as much by the european and american peoples, such as unlimited military and financial support to the ukrainian government, without any effort to reach a negotiation, or the pursuit of climate objectives in a way and on time that has already proven unsustainable for our industrial system, from an energy and commercial point of view.
i would like to ask you to make this clear, because these strict rules are only environmental and do not take into account the needs of production, not to mention the serious risks to food security to which all europe is exposed.
first of all, on co2 standards for trucks and buses, i think it is very important to realise that trucks are responsible for 25% of greenhouse gas emissions from road transport, so this shows how big the impact of our trucks are.
this is, of course, a very crucial sector that we need to decarbonise towards 2050 in order to achieve our climate neutrality as the european union.
we need to accelerate to make sure that we can be reaching carbon neutrality by 2050. to be very honest, i was critical about the commission’s proposal and, to be very honest, i am still doubtful that with these numbers we will get to climate neutrality by 2050 in the trucks, which is one of the still easier sectors to abate than when we are talking about shipping aviation etc.
so what is now on the table is a reduction of 45% by 2030, 70% by 2035 and 90% by 2040 – that is also very important, we are talking about 90% by 2040. because in a lot of your contributions, we will probably start talking about carbon neutral fuels again, e-fuels etc.
we also have a target of zero emissions for city buses for 2030 there, with a very clear exemption until 2035 for those local governments who already invested in alternatives, because we do appreciate those activities and, of course, we do not want to cut that off by 2030. so i think all in all, a very balanced report with ambition that is very close to the commission, with consideration of an expanding of the scope, also with good definitions of carbon neutrality and carbon neutral fuels.
and for those who are saying that we still need something on the carbon correction factor because of carbon neutral fuels, read the letters being sent to us by daimler, man, volvo, scania, who are all saying: do not do this, you are putting the burden on us, you are defacto slowing down the decarbonisation of this sector.
– mr president, honourable members, things actually do get interesting when a climate debate becomes concrete, and trucks and buses and the need to make them zero emission, that is actually very tangible for our citizens.
of course, at the same time, we are discussing this challenge in a climate emergency and that asks for responsibility in all of our choices.
climate change is unfortunately happening much faster than we feared, and it is causing damage all across europe, and also all across all the corners of the world.
and we have a new sad record, with 2023 as the warmest year on record as was the same, by the way, for 2022. of course, we discuss climate files like this one with the binding goals of our european climate law in mind.
we all know the targets: we must cut greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030, and we need to reach climate neutrality by 2050. and i’m going to say it again, it is this parliament that has championed these targets for all the right reasons.
in fact, transport requires special attention because it is responsible for almost one quarter of european co2 emissions.
and interestingly enough, for a long time it was the only sector where emissions were rising.
climate policy is, you could say, security policy.
and yet, in all openness, i do not think that to include a so-called carbon correction factor in our rules is the right way forward.
i doubt that a carbon correction factor for new trucks gets us broad support for zero-emission transport.
they would face penalties if member states fall behind in existing renewable energy targets on fuels, and there is no incentive to overachieve on those targets.
buses and trucks are currently responsible for 6% of eu emissions, and we all depend on them in our daily lives for commuting to work or for full shelves in supermarkets.
and it is only together that we can reduce the emissions of the industry.
because once again, carbon neutral fuels are not to play a role, once again, there are to be artificial restrictions on electricity and hydrogen.
so, my dear bas eickhout, there are three options for the evp today: we have a broad definition of co2-neutral fuels, we have a carbon correction factor with a lid, and we only have an application for e-fuels.
we have been in the global forefront for a long time when it comes to climate and industrial policy.
continue to show the way to reduce our co2 emissions and continue to show the way for an innovative industry that can develop the green buses and trucks of the future.
today, buses and trucks emit more than 6% of the eu's total greenhouse gas emissions, and that will increase if we do nothing.
we also want 100 percent of the new buses that will be sold in cities to be zero emissions by 2030. but we are pragmatic about school buses, for example, where technology is less mature and so we give more time to school buses to adapt.
the climate crisis is urgent.
in some areas of the transition, progress is being made, but emissions from heavy transport are still increasing.
despite the paris agreement, despite a european climate law, emissions from heavy transport are still increasing.
it is therefore extremely urgent that we take ambitious decisions to ensure that heavy-duty truck manufacturers must reduce their emissions and focus on electrification.
that would be very unfortunate, because we already have enough rolling trucks on our streets that are emitting carbon dioxide and we have to reduce them extremely quickly.
– mr president, we are all in agreement with our good friend bas eickhout – but he's not listening – regarding the need to reduce co2 emissions on the heavy vehicles.
number one is the carbon correction factor, which we think is necessary to handle the wide variety of heavy vehicles.
you said no to biofuels, to renewable fuels.
it is therefore clear that behind environmental policies, industrial policies are hidden.
this is important for all of europe, both from an environmental and economic point of view.
in addition, impact assessments have been made but i think they are a little scarce, in the sense that they have not looked closely at the social, economic and in some cases even environmental aspects.
finally, the problem here is that, between the increases in transport costs and today we voted on the issue of co2 emissions from heavy goods vehicles and the increase in packaging costs, we are charging the european consumer and the european citizen with a 10% increase in supermarkets.
eliminate plastic packaging, increasing waste, compromising food safety and even protecting products in transport.
but then we talk about food waste, right?
you're a little schizophrenic because, on the one hand, you say that to combat waste, you need to pack smaller and smaller packages and then, on the other hand, you say that for salad it takes at least a pound to pack!
studies show that reuse has a greater environmental impact, because of course packaging must be transported back and forth and, in order to be reused, it must be washed, so more water, more energy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this regulation on packaging and packaging waste is part of the european green deal policies, which aim at the elimination of fossil fuels, the reduction of anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere, the change in climate, and the objectives to be achieved by the commission at all costs, including the destruction of the european industrial system which has ensured economic growth and social progress for over a century.
even the most virtuous countries in recycling waste, like italy, will be forced to change their production model in a few years to eliminate plastic, the new enemy to be broken down.
but the proposal to reuse the packaging and containers of all consumer products, including food, is economically unsustainable and harmful to the environment, given the enormous use of energy, water and detergents that would result.
all this without taking into account the increase in water, energy use, prices for businesses and consumers, and possible damage to the transport, storage and safety of certain products, especially food.
no, this is the wrong way, and with tomorrow's vote we have a duty to strike a balance between the need to reduce packaging and waste and the needs of producers.
our companies are moving ahead because they already know that environmental consideration is a competitive factor and that we must invest in the green transition to stay on the market.
they will also create a safer and more secure environment for communication between the authorities of different member states, while saving time and costs.
it will also support the effective exercise of electoral rights, the european dimension of the elections to the european parliament to promote election integrity and fair campaigning, election observation, as well as address cyber risks, hybrid threats and protection of the information environment around the election.
the exact opposite of the federalist project that has been working on for years and today: the commission has already proposed a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the text at issue aims to reduce the dependence on china for the extraction and processing of critical raw materials, which are essential for the energy transition, for digital technologies and for electronic and medical devices.
the european path to critical raw materials is also characterised by the desire to make greater investment in research and innovation, ensuring environmental protection through the promotion of circularity, recycling and greater sustainability.
europe is dependent on third countries for the import of all the rare raw materials that underlie the change in the energy model and electrification; 90% of imports come from countries outside the main eu alliance systems.
it didn't take a scientist to understand that after energy, the commodity market would be the weak link in our economy, moving us from energy dependence on russian gas to raw material dependence on china.
the text provides that, under strict conditions, researchers and companies can access anonymised health data in a secure processing environment where strict technical and safety standards are applied.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to achieve the objective of making europe economically safe, investment capacity is first necessary, and to invest, a sustainable reform of the stability pact is needed.
well, in my house, covenants are to be respected, and to do so, we need sustainable rules, not brainstorming.
to secure the economy, we also need to be more energy-savvy.
in the past five years, however, we have seen how unfortunately sometimes zealous climate and energy policies have discouraged investment in those sources that could be alternatives to the intermittent and non-programmable nature of renewable sources, which are still destined to play an important role in the energy transition.
investment and energy resources are therefore two of the elements needed to strengthen european economic security, a topic that has been overlooked for too long and emerged with great force after the pandemic and the conflict in ukraine.
they will also address ukraine's urgent military and defence needs and stress the importance of continuing and sustainable military support to ukraine, in particular through the european peace support fund, the european union military assistance mission and the direct bilateral assistance of member states.
next, as you all know, the council will also discuss post-cop28 action in the current climate emergency context.
we remember all the pain that putin has inflicted on innocent ukrainians, as well as on europeans with its energy blackmail.
the union budget had to deal with an energy crisis, with a global food crisis, with the arrival of millions of ukrainians fleeing russia’s bombs and all of this against a backdrop of rising prices and interest rates – because, of course, russia’s war had also added to the inflationary pressures of a global economy that was just recovering from the pandemic.
the european union and its member states will, by their own actions, be deprived of the means necessary both to ensure our social cohesion and to invest in our future, starting with the fight against climate change, which is the key to our collective prosperity.
it has not done so with sanctions against russia or in the fight against islamic terrorism; it's not doing that on energy and climate change.
add to that an unthinking energy transition, uncontrolled migration, rising protectionism and increasing regulatory pressure, and you have the toxic cocktail we're in right now.
the ecb's policy should be focused on price stability, not on saving high-debt countries and the climate.
the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment.
it's a waste of precious time and money, and at the end of the day all it should take is love and the will to create a beautiful family.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 28th united nations conference on climate change proposes to put in place a series of actions to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. the attention to climate change is certainly shared but it must not become a crazy environmental race, which would lead to the collapse of the entire european economy.
today, our companies are faced with a much greater challenge, given the high energy costs and unfair competition from china, india and the united states, which are less sensitive and attentive on the environmental front than europe.
the energy transition must be implemented gradually and intelligently, with adequate economic aid to our companies; this cannot and must not be done at the expense of european companies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the cop28 has yielded results, but we are not yet really determined to tell the truth, namely that we must immediately end fossil emissions because it is the future of all mankind.
having energy from genuine renewable sources that does not pollute and do not compromise the future of our children and our planet is a business.