madam president, dear colleagues, the keys to a sustainable peace on the european continent are in the hands of ukraine.
sustainable peace in europe is possible only if russian people will transform their country back to democracy, because democracies are not fighting each other.
ukraine’s geopolitical integration into the west is no less important than leopards or abrams for ukraine’s defence because this is the only way to sustainable peace on the european continent.
on the contrary, in order to have a sustainable peace on european continent, russians need to be convinced to abandon their nostalgia of an empire.
european farmers are experiencing a particularly difficult period caused by the russian war of aggression against ukraine, which has severely disrupted agricultural production, led to an energy crisis and high fertiliser prices.
because this is the only way how sustainable peace can be established on the european continent, since there is a very well—known law of geopolitics: only democracies are not fighting with each other.
i want to repeat: sustainable peace on european continent will be established only when belarusian and russian people will have a possibility to enjoy those values and to live in normal european conditions.
we lithuanians want to be part of a european union which is able to implement such a democracy action plan because this is an action plan for sustainable peace on the european continent.
we've seen huge gains in the energy sector, in some pharmaceuticals, in the banking sector.
and since moldova really is facing different challenges, including energy and budgetary ones.
now, i'm making honey with the help of my children and grandchildren, and i'm very aware of the invaluable role that pollinators play in the environment, in agriculture, and even in family and cultural relationships.
that all european farmers receive the same direct payments and then we can live in a more harmonious and healthy environment.
deforestation is a growing global problem, and if left unaddressed, we will struggle to cope with biodiversity loss and climate change.
i call for a long—term strategy towards russia and china that is not aimed at momentary benefits but focuses on sustainable peace and security on the european continent.
more support for the cooperative sector and support for young farmers should be strengthened, the importance of the income support redistribution mechanism and the potential of farmers to combat climate change should be emphasised.
it is the only way to achieve sustainable and lasting peace on the european continent.
i fully agree with ursula von der leyen as she said in her speech in the hudson institute last month – i quote: ‘what europe and the united states are fighting for together is about freedom and democracy.’
the president, my fellow members, honourable commissioner, i agree that biodiversity needs to be protected and climate change must be curbed.
for example, in my country, lithuania, new genomic technologies such as gene editing could provide more opportunities and allow for the cultivation of crops that are resistant to disease, environmental conditions, climate change and pests and can grow at lower agricultural costs.
now, with the help of my children and grandchildren, i can see the invaluable value of honey bees to the environment, to agriculture, and even to family and cultural ties.
the latest genomic technologies, such as gene editing, can offer many possibilities, allowing plants to grow more resistant to disease, environmental conditions, climate change and pests.
this leads to more resilient and sustainable agricultural and food systems, contributes to the green path.
and so, using rational farming and science, we're going to have a healthy environment, healthy pollinators, and healthy food.
despite the ongoing aggressive russian war, the democratic ukrainian government is deliberately and sincerely preparing for negotiations on european union membership, preparing to transpose european environmental law into national law.
nevertheless, the environmental damage caused by the russian war is increasing day by day.
mining fields, pollution caused by the destruction of energy infrastructure, destruction of pesticide storage facilities, explosion of the kachovka hydroelectric power plant and irreparable damage to biodiversity, pollution of air, water, soil and the continuing threat of nuclear power accidents.