the european union is reinforcing investments which often have a negative impact on the territory, the environment, the rights of communities and, in particular, on human rights organisations.
on january 17, antonio díaz valencia and ricardo arturo lagunes, two mexican environmental defenders who were providing legal support to a community affected by a mining project owned by a european company, disappeared.
in the face of the dual climate and energy crisis - which too often tends to be 'forgotten' - we have also managed to reduce our consumption significantly while accelerating the transition to an energy system based mainly on renewable energy.
it is not just a moral and environmental imperative; it is an economic necessity, but also a geopolitical one, and the legacy we want to leave for future generations.
and i have to thank you, madam president, also for the leadership of your assembly, precisely in this debate and this will to fight climate change.
i have just presented, with our ministers for the environment, energy and the economy, on monday, the results of a public consultation we conducted with 100 citizens.
these 100 citizens have put forward proposals, many of which are reflected in the national plan - the necp, as we call it in our country - for energy and climate, which will be given to the european commission.
it not only brings us prosperity, but it also gives rise to our common rules and standards in the areas of social, environmental, consumer protection and food safety.
while state aid can act as a 'bridge' to help our industrial fabric and smes through difficult times, it is the internal market and its regulatory environment that will enable them to remain competitive in a sustainable way, especially at global level.
open markets, coupled with a level playing field especially in environmental, climate and human rights issues, were and will also be the basis of our prosperity in the future.
strategic autonomy also means to lead a proactive european industrial policy to ensure production and value creation in europe, particularly in the context of the green and digital transition, to promote the availability of critical raw materials and to diversify, rather than relying on all or much of them, to free europe from dependence on fossil fuels, to build up and maintain renewable energy networks, and finally to promote and protect technological development and innovations made in europe.
in view of the challenges - financial, climate, security, industrial and social - that lie ahead in the years ahead, i will also ask for more solidarity and means, which will also determine our political action.
we must live up to the efforts that lie ahead, whether in terms of respect for the rule of law, the climate, commitment to ukraine, the will to build something that will allow us to go further together.
we must bring production back to europe, including luxembourg, both to guarantee our autonomy and with environmental protection in mind.
the dependencies in which we are entangled - energy, economic and military - are making us vulnerable.