there are many constraints we have to take into account: the pressure on heading 7, high inflation, energy costs.
we must create a favourable regulatory environment by re-examining legislation and, of course, open up space for creativity, which today is reduced to ecological and digital transitions.
however, as soon as we have finished working on a collaborative european law, i would like to emphasise that the objective of submitting documents only once, where public sector authorities cooperate with each other, is very far from being achieved, as the collaboration of institutions in the digital environment remains a huge problem both within and between countries.
the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the environmental impact of russia's war on ukraine and on the necessary accountability (2023/2991(rsp)).
and nature is a silent victim of russia’s war, with devastating environmental consequences.
president zelenskyy denounced the destruction of the kakhovka dam as an ecocide and the worst environmental disaster in ukraine after chernobyl.
beyond this, the war causes damage to the environment every day.
based on its environmental inspections, ukraine estimates that russia’s invasion has caused roughly eur 52.4 billion in environmental damage.
for too long, environmental damages have been side-lined as collateral damage.
ukraine is the first country in history investigating crimes committed by the occupation forces against the natural environment as a war crime.
according to ukraine’s office of the prosecutor general, a total of 2 500 incidents of environmental damage have been documented so far.
the eu also continues strengthening the ukrainian prosecutor general’s office itself in investigation and prosecution of environmental damages caused.
it is worth remembering that, under the rome statute, acts causing widespread long-term and severe damage to the natural environment can amount to war crimes.
it is equally important to ensure that russia pays reparations, including for the environmental damage resulting from internationally wrongful acts, in or against ukraine.
honourable members, allow me to thank you for your continuous efforts in attracting public attention to the illegal war russia is waging against ukraine, including to its environmental consequences.
a special aspect is the damage caused by war to the environment.
no, i think of all the unnecessary things because war-induced pollution gets into the soil, air and water of ukraine and in some cases, in the long term, polluted and contaminated these elements.
it is estimated that the pollution emissions from this war are equivalent to the annual emissions of belgium.
i think that the crimes against the environment show the character of the russian regime, and the condemnation is certainly quite uniform and unanimous here in this house as usual.
in the first two weeks of the war alone, air pollution in kyiv was 27 times higher than normal.
millions of acres of farmland have been contaminated with heavy metals and millions of greenhouse gases have been emitted by war.
we can and must together hold russia responsible for the environmental damage they are causing to ukraine.
the environmental damage to ukraine is enormous.
an important step is registered by the council of europe – already mentioned, it has been agreed by 44 countries in may – it aims to document the environmental damage and to prepare the ground for concrete reparations for ukraine.
but there is also a sound legal basis to hold russia accountable for crimes against the environment, like the kakhovka dam, already mentioned, and to make it compensate for the damage.
we have no time to waste, as you know, but we must keep the political momentum going.
in essence, i believe that the defence industrial ecosystem must be transformed into a model where supply security and capacity to increase production are directly integrated.