while the european economy still had not fully recovered from the covid-related crisis and its severe socio-economic consequences, the russian military aggression against ukraine led to numerous disruptions in global value chains and to a significant increase in the energy prices in europe.
after having suffered the consequences of the pandemic, they are now challenged by soaring energy prices and lack of skilled employees.
the single market is a base, it’s a hub, it’s a protection in a challenging global environment.
for instance, when it comes to principles of privacy, of transparency, as well as our high green and environmental protection objectives and of course, our social standards.
now dealing with the energy crisis caused by dependence on russian fossil fuel, it is again enabling europe to stand united.
it goes from the networks of virtually all gas stations, to parts of the energy system and major food chains and industry.
and the current energy crisis has confirmed that point.
for years, the european union has fought for the full liberalisation of the energy market within the framework of the internal free market.
it is more important than ever to strengthen the resilience of our market to crises, but also to make it more modern and sustainable for the future.
the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to provide a financial contribution to the european union's development of the energy sector.
the commission, under mrs von der leyen's leadership, is unfortunately not doing its job of defending the achievements of the internal market: uncontrolled mass immigration, which is also being encouraged by this house, is an existential threat to our free economic area, as is an aggressive commission which, in its efforts to save the climate, is launching a veritable orgy of subsidies.
we need to complete it in the services area, building a common digital market, but also a common energy market.
the single market is not a gateway in itself but a tool that can substantially improve the quality of life of european citizens and help europe respond to different emergencies, including the pandemic and the shortage of essential services, including medicines, as well as the energy crisis that resulted from the russian invasion of ukraine.
we have heard from the companies who know how to do green mining, carbon—free steel, how they can focus creatively on the critical raw materials we need so much in europe and how to push us to the next level in the electromobility.
your companies, mr prime minister, are proving that you can be globally competitive and at the same time highly sustainable.
and i think as mr azmani has underscored, now we need to make sure that we spread these examples across europe, that we will be working with all of you to make sure that we will push over the finishing line with the chips act, and as we start to work on the critical raw materials act, that we will be putting down the rules on responsible mining, that we will be working on pushing energy prices down and energy security in europe up, because this is exactly what we need to help our businesses, our households, and to consolidate our single market.
one is climate and environment and energy, which we are now bringing together in a joint department in the swedish government, because climate starts and ends in energy policy.
long-term, total fossil-free energy is the key to green.
i am pleased that one of the four priorities is prosperity the ecological and energy transition.
once operational, the single european sky will not only lead to a 20% reduction in emissions, but will also contribute to economic growth and stimulate new jobs.
the priority of the european union and the swedish presidency for the next six months must remain the protection of european citizens from the crises we face: inflation, rising energy prices, economic instability or the war in ukraine.
the beginning of the swedish presidency comes at a key moment for the european union, as structural measures are expected throughout the year to respond to social discontent over high inflation, while work continues on the solution to the terrible ukrainian conflict, the challenge of european competitiveness, the reform of the energy market - and in particular the comprehensive reform of the electricity market - the ecological transition and the defence of the rule of law.
the beginning of the swedish presidency comes at a key moment for the european union, as structural measures are expected throughout the year to respond to social discontent over high inflation, while work continues on the solution to the terrible ukrainian conflict, the challenge of european competitiveness, the reform of the energy market - and in particular the comprehensive reform of the electricity market - the ecological transition and the defence of the rule of law.
to ensure a robust energy transition, regulatory modernisation is proposed to attract the necessary investments.
indeed, consumer protection in video games is essential to ensure a safe and trustworthy digital environment.
industry-led efforts play an important role in ensuring a safe gameplay environment to protect children while also promoting healthy gameplay habits.
online gaming is particularly prevalent among children, who are growing up in an environment of digital video games available on a variety of devices: from computers, to game consoles, to smartphones, and other screens.
on the other hand, i say that lobbying as such, if it is transparent, regulated, if it brings information from some environment to a member who is free to decide on the basis of this information, it is important to say, in my opinion, should not be completely prohibited.
but what i see as important is that these platforms are disrupting equity in the business environment.
i see in my city, prague, uber is disrupting the taxi environment.
and that's also important: a level playing field for the business environment that the platforms can't disrupt.
we refuse to waste precious time when there are priorities.
it is, as many said, a complex and sensitive issue as to how we can develop a sustainable solution in the area of asylum and migration.
– it is high time that the eu delivers a credible migration and asylum policy, suitable to face the increasing challenges, with sustainable and long-lasting solutions.
we need to protect the citizens of ukraine while pushing the ukrainian government to major reforms and compliance with european regulatory requirements, such as the protection of minority rights and environmental criteria.
this is crucial to ensure that we have the necessary manufacturing capacity to reach the eu’s climate—neutral goals.
i think we all know that this is a decisive decade, that by 2030 we plan to cut emissions by 55%, and that this work started three years ago with the european green deal.
we set out a very detailed roadmap, fit for 55, and we accelerated our work with next generation eu using eur 800 billion—worth of investment to emerge from the pandemic with a stronger, more sustainable europe.
russia’s war of aggression requires us to accelerate again this work, as putin is weaponising his country’s energy exports in a failed attempt to weaken our resolve.
europe is being tested by war, by geopolitical tensions, by trade rivalries and climate change.
we need to show that we can step up to these challenges and we need to continue to show our resolve as we work towards 2030 and net zero by 2050. half the emissions we need to cut by 2050 depend on technology not yet ready for market, or technology that does not yet exist.
the eu’s net—zero startups were worth over eur 100 billion in 2021, twice as much as they were worth the year before, and that will keep growing: economic growth, competitiveness and innovation, on the one hand; sustainability on the other.
but we need the right environment in europe to make sure these goals support and build on each other.
it is built on four pillars: the regulatory environment, financing, skills and trade.
first, on the regulatory environment, this is about speed and access.
so our temporary rules will allow for time—limited, proportionate and targeted state aid where that’s necessary to roll out renewable energy, decarbonise industry and support investment in strategic sectors for net zero.
our social and energy costs are among the highest in the world, but so is also the quality of our scientists and engineers.
it is good that allied countries like the united states are committed to the transition to a world without emissions.
we also need a review of the public aid model for enterprises, which will allow us to accelerate the deployment of strategic projects in the framework of national recovery plans and in sectors that guarantee greater strategic, technological and energy autonomy, such as clean energy, semiconductors and electric vehicles.
and there is no better way to mark the 30th anniversary of the single market than to help give birth to a competitive, sustainable, digital european industry that respects the dignity of the working class that it deserves.
and when you read the reasoning, it’s because denmark has been very at the forefront of a sustainability policy, a predictable policy that is showing the way for our industry, where we should be going.
and that means we're no longer talking about how to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, but we're talking about putting all our chips on a technology that is actually a technology that has some shadows.
our people need public investment in good jobs, in an industry that is sustainable and clean.
our people want clean electricity and heat, they want functioning, sustainable transport, and our people have a right to good education and health.
redistribution from top to bottom to invest in a sustainable future - that's the way to go, including for the eu.
protecting our workers and protecting the climate are not contradictory; they go hand in hand.
third, we need affordable prices for energy.
the reform of the electricity market will be instrumental, but equally important will be to kick—start the clean hydrogen market to include low—carbon hydrogen as a transition energy.
so i expect more from the european union: a greater commitment to families; a greater commitment to equality; a greater commitment to environmental justice; quality of work; decent working conditions; good pay; involvement of trade unions; respect for the collective agreement; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment, such as the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, and the introduction of a new environmental policy.
the european union needs to have a global strength that it cannot always have because of internal divisions, that it cannot always have because of the lack of common projects, such as the energy union, or solutions that avoid the distortion of the internal market, as is happening with market aids or with the non-use of instruments such as investeu, which are essential, for example, for the capitalisation of companies, and which are essential for critical investments that the council has eliminated.
it is the council that has blocked the energy union, it is the council that has cut investeu, it is the council that has avoided an instrument for the solvency of companies and that has eliminated the window for strategic investments.
mr president, commissioner, the european economy certainly needs more private investment, but also more public investment to meet the challenges of the industrial future in the context of the energy transition.
we are going forward with our long term strategy for a more sustainable european economy and society.
we all want a strong, resilient europe that is showing leadership not just in green finance, but in environmental issues generally.
it is clear that only together can we find convincing answers for the sustainability and competitiveness of our industry in an increasingly aggressive global market.
whilst environmental ambition is key, we cannot keep on setting targets without offering adequate assistance and instruments, be they temporary or permanent, so as to help ensure a new greener reality for europe.
rather, energy transition, environmental aspects, mobility - and sustainable mobility - and economic development must be considered together.
help countries to build themselves modern, sustainable processing facilities!
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the climate act and the fit for 55 package require our industry to accelerate the green and digital transitions.
it is also necessary to develop technologies which ensure that mining has the least possible impact on the environment and the population, without neglecting the social responsibility of this sector.
this, if we succeed, will make us more competitive and reduce the shortages and delays of european products to market, while safeguarding the highest social and environmental standards in the european union.
the parliament's report on the 2021 raw materials strategy makes it clear: we are setting ambitious climate targets, but we are heavily dependent on imports of critical raw materials.
sustainable mining in europe would mean meeting the highest environmental and social standards.
the past has shown that the success of environmental and digital cores depends on the efficiency of our supply chains.
while working towards more clean energy and technology, let us not forget that critical raw materials are an essential commodity for the union's economy and resilience.
the european union's industrial strategy should be a sign of our autonomy to define a comprehensive, affordable and sustainable plan, as regards supply chains, their diversification, reuse and recycling.
for some, this is about the family's energy bill or the cost of their children's education.
let us therefore work towards a policy that is indeed ambitious in terms of climate and biodiversity, but that is based on science and that takes account of its feasibility for the farmer, in the field and in the stable.
and yes, renure is an example of something that we can do to both help the climate and biodiversity and support the farmers at the same time.
however, to ensure that it is sustainable, we must ensure that our farmers are well assisted.
agriculture is becoming more sustainable and digital through the use of innovation.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the european economy is being put under severe pressure simultaneously by war, sanctions, the energy crisis, the burden of the green and digital transition, bureaucracy and protectionist industrial policies, and now the us.
instead of over-regulation, a business-friendly investment and operating environment and a lasting reduction in energy prices are needed.
we have an industrial emissions directive on the table which will complicate and lengthen planning procedures with environmental management systems for each individual plant, with the prevention of further use of old plants.
without bees, many crops would not produce fruit and seeds, and this would threaten biodiversity.
without biodiversity, our health and food security would be at risk.
our farmers know this well: they are the first guardians of the environment, because no one knows better than them the rhythms of nature, its cycles, its rules and the best way to respect it.
by their daily efforts, farmers ensure the protection of biodiversity.
in other words, this means that environmental sustainability is closely linked to economic and social sustainability.
in the light of this initiative too, i would like to highlight another problem that we have perhaps not talked about much that bees are facing on a european basis especially in the mediterranean region: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the implementation of the european union's action plan for the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment (2007-2013).
it is also important that we see the effect of climate change in our member states for example; two years ago in malta due to lack of rain, in one year alone, we had a honey production in malta that was 80% less than the year before in one year alone!
and so it's important to address these problems because without bees we don't eat, without bees our biodiversity is gone forever.
i know that without it, we can't keep the peace, we can't fight climate change, we're no good to ukraine, and in general, this space without the law is worth nothing.
madam president, madam commissioner, access to energy sources and their storage is a strategic concern on a global scale.
the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union is a net importer of energy, with 58% of available energy produced outside the member states in 2020. a path towards imposing sustainable and clean forms of energy production only makes sense if science can keep pace with the vision of policy makers.
if the targets set by the european commission, the council and parliament are unrealizable, the consequence will be intolerable increases in energy prices and difficulties for our companies and economies.
in this context, investment in efficient forms of energy storage produced by various means, and particularly energy from clean or renewable sources, such as solar, wind or hydrogen, can be crucial to the success of environmentally friendly decisions without a major impact on the balance of economies on a global scale.
a more sustainable planet, business opportunities, a better future for the next generation - that's what we can achieve.
we need to do this through the integrated energy policy framework of the european union.
energy storage has become a key component in the transition towards a sustainable energy system.
however, renewable energy sources like wind and solar are scarce, which we know very well, and which also makes it difficult to rely solely on them for our energy needs.
beyond what we've heard very well in the debate and what's been proposed, we can lower electricity prices, of course during peak periods, and empower consumers to adjust their energy consumption to prices and their needs.
however, we cannot ignore the importance of investing in other infrastructure as we move towards sustainability of energy produced from renewable sources.
while we wait to take the next step, we must not forget these energy resources that are available to us and these investments, and i think croatia is a leader in that.
commissioner, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy market is of course very important for every citizen.
after all, the life of every citizen depends on the cost of energy, and we know that these successive crises have led to the price of each individual bill going up.
i think we have to take into account that, until we reach the amount of renewable energy that we have set out to do, we still have to have access to gas and nuclear energy.
madam president, i wish to thank commissioner simson for accepting our request and being here today to exchange views on the issue of energy storage, which i think it is of paramount importance not only in terms of security of supply, but also in order to address our final goal, which is our strategic autonomy.
it emits no greenhouse gas emissions, it presents a tantalising solution for a hard—to—abate sector and it is also an important energy carrier in terms of storage.
i would kindly ask the commission if it is ready to expand the scope of ipcei projects when it comes to energy storage.
– madam president, honourable members, i’m delighted to see that there is an overall consensus on the important role of energy storage.
we agree that we must double down on integrating new renewable generation into the grid, and for that we need flexibility and storage solutions to replace the role traditionally played by gas-fired installations.
moving towards a decarbonised system require all forms of low-carbon storage to balance the variable supply with variable demand.
we try to address this through the repowereu emergency regulatory amendments, which cover permitting processes for energy storage combined with renewable energy projects through co-located projects and go-to areas.
energy storage assets related to the deployment of renewable generation are presumed to be of overriding public interest.
and cross-border energy storage projects identified under the trans-european network for energy within the eu-wide ten-year network development plan and selected as a project of common interest (pci) in the union list will benefit from fast-track procedures in addition to possible funding.
we are currently working on a cost-benefit analysis methodology for the selection of energy storage as projects of common interest, and this process will be finalised soon.
all of this can be done without compromising on environmental protection.
the combination of these national targets will help accelerate flexibility services, including energy-storage capacities.
this requires a stable regulatory environment and well-designed programmes.
finally, the construction of modern energy storage systems is a complex and capital-intensive process for which the commission must ensure that all member states have immediate access to the resources to which they are entitled.
it is therefore important that brussels and the left do not further delay the creation of energy independence and climate protection in central europe.
it also contributes the union’s sustainable long-term competitiveness.
it will enhance the european education and training offer and provide visibility and clarity over training and certification, because we need some sort of certification to be able to testify, to verify, that the various initiatives that are being developed can produce an ecosystem that can be deployed across the european union and across the different sectors.
it is no longer a matter of enhancing commercial profit, but it’s a very specific ecosystem of guaranteeing europeans national security.
we are already carrying out, in partnership with the member states, risk analyses on energy, transport and digital infrastructures (especially submarine cables) as well as on space infrastructures.
i understand that europe is currently facing many ambitious challenges, on energy, the environment, the digital world and human rights, but it seems that it does not realise that the immigration emergency must also be a priority, above all to contain the anti-european sentiment that is likely to prevail in the run-up to the next european elections and to leave room for extreme solutions, which would obviously be the only answer to the european union's immobility.
with only a few countries accounting for the majority of arrivals, the status quo is neither fair nor sustainable.
and one of the biggest priorities that people are, and citizens are talking about is the priority of strengthening the social sphere on a european basis, in a situation where we have very high inflation rates, high energy and food prices, rising unemployment, rising poverty and rising social inequalities and war in ukraine.
social rights should be given equal importance to macroeconomic and environmental objectives with the common aim of improving the well-being of our european citizens.
unfortunately, in the last two years, we have seen major challenges, which simply bite the economic and social cohesion of the regions, as a result of challenges that we all feel; whether it's the energy crisis, the covid-19 pandemic, inflation, or the war in ukraine, the effects are more than visible.
both the temporary transition framework and the amendment of the general block exemption regulation will undoubtedly help to accelerate investment and financing, also in the field of clean energy production, which is one of the important objectives of european policies, which i also support.
we are living in difficult times, no doubt, which force us to make compromises, but i would not like to see the basic principles of cohesion policy sacrificed for economic and environmental reasons.
additional assistance to regions suffering from serious and permanent disadvantages is needed to meet renewable energy targets, to successfully pivot to clean technologies, as well as to address the increased impact of the pandemic, the energy crisis and inflation.
the state, the administration, the institutions and the environment that should be responding are deaf and blind.
there are many similarities with our europe today, which is certainly much more united, which has made enormous progress since robert schuman's famous declaration, but which at the same time today is also facing dangers and, above all, profound changes in its globalised environment.
to say that we are in a situation of ecological, globalized, digital transformation, but that there is a way out for everyone.
we are preparing the eu for the net zero industries, for sustainable transport, for new technologies.
this must be done through education and partnerships between all stakeholders – governments, schools, universities and the industry, developing curricula aligned with the challenges and opportunities faced, as well as the sustainable and digital skills needed.
the cumulative effects of the worsening economic and social situation, the increase in labour exploitation, environmental degradation, the challenges facing children and adolescents today, among others, are particularly striking.
dear colleagues, in the face of climate change and the challenges ahead, we cannot be like the sovereignists, denying problems and denying solutions, because the greatest vulnerability we have is that which comes from those who think that each small state can face the challenges of the future, without realizing that multilateralism and global cooperation are essential to tackling the problems of our time.
mr president, the pandemic and war in ukraine have closed global supply chains, caused a shortage of raw materials and made europe realize that strategic raw materials are critical to achieving environmental and climate objectives as well as our digital transition.
unfortunately, over the past few decades, we have become too dependent, or even overdependent, on third countries for the extraction of the critical material needed to carry out the ecological transition and digital transition.
we need to urgently address the increase in demand for critical raw materials by supporting resilient and diversified supply chains to meet current and future demand for the european union's industrial sectors, avoid supply chain disruptions, reduce dependency, and maintain high social and environmental standards.
they should also support the promotion of the development and use of raw materials and alternative measures to ensure the european union's access to a secure supply, to a sustainable supply of critical raw materials.