if we want to reduce our dependencies, we must ensure our energy security, finalise repowereu and conclude an ambitious chips act.
because these loot boxes give you the same feeling as gambling, people can waste a lot of money on this and work these loot boxes addictive.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in europe, at last, the word environment is joined by other words: industry, technology, international competition, work and skills.
if we want to aim for sustainable mobility, we have to make batteries here in europe, and making batteries means designing them here, means building them, means producing them and also means preparing that training of the personnel that is needed.
and now for the interesting part: sri lanka had a near-perfect score of 98.1 on the esg e. esg stands for environmental and social governance.
our climate islander frans timmermans is a big fan of this concept.
instead, the measure shall be: is it climate neutral enough?
we called for more european cooperation to ensure that we have sufficient clean and affordable energy quickly, because that is what our companies need to be competitive.
the european commission is showing its willingness to think strategically, with projects and partnerships in the field of energy, raw materials and digital infrastructure.
use diplomacy to convince partner countries to join the sanctions and isolate the taliban internationally, and offer sustainable protection to afghan women and girls who are on our territories.
because repowereu is not only our response to the energy crisis, but also creates a clear framework to enable clean tech, build our needed infrastructure and improve interconnectivity.
it is built on strong financing and the direction is clear towards climate neutrality and improved autonomy – a shift away from russian gas towards renewables.
we need to make energy clean and affordable.
it will help us shape the future of our energy system and create opportunities for greening our industry, making it more competitive.
this will bring us closer to our climate goals, improve air quality and, above all, prevent european stanley.
the climate argument is more than clear because it has sufficient urgency to address this problem.
because the co2 emissions from our cars are not only responsible for global warming, but also poison the health of millions of people through air pollution.
lithium is extracted at the cost of considerable environmental pollution.
however, since the liberalisation of the energy sector, electricity production has stagnated in europe, and we are even experiencing the first power cuts this winter.
i have to say, madam president, the last investment in combustion engines in cars is really good for the climate, and it is a very necessary decision if we in the eu are to reach our climate goals and comply with the paris climate agreement.
the green transition is the way forward not only for the climate, but also for growth and jobs.
it creates new opportunities for businesses in the eu, but also for the climate, and it creates lots of new green jobs.
we need this legislation for the climate, but also to secure jobs in the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is perfectly acceptable to aim at reducing co2 emissions in the transport sector, but such a plan must have realistic objectives and not result in increased costs for citizens and businesses.
we also have to weigh up the environmental costs that we will face, from extracting the raw materials to disposing of the batteries at the end of their life.
but some say that the inflation reduction act could be seen as a reaction to our european green deal or to our carbon border adjustment mechanism.
but some could say that the inflation reduction act is a reaction to our european green deal or to our carbon border adjustment mechanism.
unfortunately, many citizens can barely pay their energy bills or sleep in the cold.
we must help the industrial sector to make the transition in a sustainable and innovative way.
we must ensure that the 96.5 million europeans in the eu are not at risk of falling into poverty, for example because of high energy bills.
let's make sure that our partner countries meet our standards through trade agreements, and let's make sure that trade agreements include sustainable development chapters so that the whole world can join this crucial transition and ultimately become climate neutral.
the debate on this will be a crucial step in achieving our digital and climate ambitions.
president, ladies and gentlemen, we must move much faster towards 100% renewable energy and electric cars.
for the climate, of course, but also to reduce our dependence on rogue states like russia.
but all reliable energy sources have since been replaced by unreliable renewable energy sources.
this has created the current energy crisis and made us completely dependent on russian gas.
president, ladies and gentlemen, we have a responsibility to build a clean energy system and to pass on our world to our children.
not only have we become far too dependent on it, the honest truth is that we have also saddled other countries with the environmental impact of mining our resources.
the left in this parliament is all too eager to accelerate the pace of sustainability, but at the same time it is putting a brake on europe's mining of the raw materials we so desperately need.
i am very surprised, mr president, at times to hear a debate on this subject, as if we had not already been through an energy crisis or were still in it, as if we did not want to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels.
because of what we have agreed here, and a lot of political parties are doing that, we're thinking hard about what's best to do now in terms of reducing that oil dependency and improving energy efficiency in the built environment, we've come up with a plan that will make sure that we're going to a) go green, b) lower the bill, and c) also create a lot of jobs, and about 160,000 jobs are projected.
the parties calling for a vote against this today want you to be left out in the cold during the next crisis, to face a huge energy bill, so that they can point the finger and blame europe.
mr president, the renovation and insulation of the built environment is essential.
a very important task, because 40 percent of our energy consumption comes from that built environment, so we really have a task for future generations there.
for a truly sustainable policy, therefore, the objectives must be realistic, and unfortunately they are not in the present context.
the environment is not going to be improved by moving production abroad.
let's look at data from companies, like in energy use or manufacturing processes.
and we can learn from this collectively to make processes more sustainable and to find solutions to the climate crisis faster.
i am pretty sure that we can work on sustainable trade relations, that we can work on the creation of more jobs – green, fair, responsible.
building on our common history and on our common values, we must be able to build with the uk a strong partnership to meet the common challenges we face from the war in ukraine, the related challenges on defence, security and geopolitical issues, the energy crisis, the supply chain disruptions, climate change, migration, you name it.
it is already delivering in armenia through developing green connectivity, energy efficiency, as well as supporting smes and socio—economic development.
stop this climate coercion.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97).
how do we strike a balance between tackling climate change but remain competitive?
how can we afford to pay for our energy bills now and in the future?
deepening the capital markets union, lowering energy costs and embracing new technology, and also signing new trade deals.
you know, i’m not going to waste any time anymore in this house to explain that we have gender inequality in europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
during the european election electoral campaign, we promised to deliver on a social and ecological transition, and today we take a major step in fulfilling our promise.
the agreement reached between parliament and member states on ets cbam and the social climate fund are historic.
historic because for the first time… sorry, because they will bring us to our 2030 climate target, as set in the climate law.
and historic because we will fund the energy transition for households and help them decrease their energy bill.
you will pay for your pollution at the border.
mr president, we are passing a big package of climate legislation this week.
or the immeasurably small effect this has on the climate.
because despite the monstrous inflation, despite the skyrocketing energy prices that are seeping through everything, despite a war on our continent, the european union continues on its course.
the social climate fund is insufficient for that – and we all know that.
we are already seeing our energy grid reaching its limits.
i am glad that the built environment is now largely excluded from ets.
this is not the time to increase the energy bills of households any further.
i would have liked to keep the built environment completely out of ets.
sustainable building is something we can leave to the member states.
climate policy is needed, but with an eye to the citizen and feasibility.
those who vote against this and then hope that things will eventually get better with the energy market, with energy prices... yes, i believe in fairy tales too, but i much prefer to work to ensure that the situation for households and for business is improved.
we have had emissions trading in europe for 15 years, and yet we continue to allow unfair competition from outside europe.
the second is china's role as a global actor, which must exercise greater responsibility in defending human rights and peace, stability in the taiwan strait, the end of putin's war and the fight against climate change.
– the state of emergency declared by prime minister meloni is just another way to hide the difficulties of the government: as they are unable to provide sustainable solutions, they declare a state of emergency and they try to distract the public opinion – and also the european opinion – from the difficulties of the government to achieve the real results we need from them.
they are allowed to dump tons of poison into our environment every year.
this is due to air pollution from industry and road transport.
every year, 300,000 people die earlier because of air pollution.
what we learned from dieselgate is that the auto industry is doing everything it can to circumvent regulations in the interest of people and the environment.
the nine projects are: the single european sky air traffic management research joint undertaking 3 (sesar 3), which is air traffic; the clean aviation joint undertaking (ihi), which is the health innovation initiative joint undertaking; the clean hydrogen joint undertaking (clean h2); the key digital technologies joint undertaking (kdt); the closed-loop biotechnology europe joint undertaking; the european railway project joint undertaking (iteu); and the european space and energy research joint undertaking (eerj) and the european space and energy research joint undertaking (eerj).
so the question of iter and the development of thermonuclear energy.
in response to this situation, the joint undertaking has taken a number of actions to improve the working environment and the well-being of its employees.
i am of the opinion that, for the future, we should ask countries for multiannual plans, investment plans that correspond to the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework to look for synergies, projects that should be cross-border, projects that could and should also be important for the european union and aligned with the objectives of climate change and digital.
and so, in this sense, it was essential and important that subsidies could also be linked to loans, that the european fund for sustainable development could be working together with the european development fund to get the link between loans and subsidies, so that we can have projects where private people also get involved, so that we can create wealth, to reduce the poverty that unfortunately exists on our planet.
despite the very challenging environment and the flexibility introduced in the management of some programmes, the commission was able to deliver on its policy objectives and respond to multiple challenges.
finally, i would also like to highlight our actions to mainstream horizontal priorities such climate, biodiversity or gender equality in the union budget.
the eu must therefore continue to push for development work focusing on equality, education and climate change.
so... this whole reform, this whole renewable energy revolution that i can call it, comes and says that if we're serious and we want renewable energy, we can.
and maybe especially this signal, in the situation we're in, we have 80 gigawatts of wind energy waiting for these projects to come online.
but trees take up co2 and create a habitat for biodiversity.
renewable energy is not that sustainable.
nuclear energy does not release co2 and does not pollute the air.
nuclear energy also provides constant energy, so no fossil backup is needed.
i am not in favour of an eu that dictates to countries what energy sources they can use.
but if you do, there must be a level playing field for nuclear energy.
i call upon you: i am not going to vote against this directive and for nuclear energy.
that's the only energy source of the future.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
even many of our universities are no longer able to provide a safe environment for jewish students.
that is the necessary starting point for working towards a sustainable two-state solution.
the following list of proposals is set out in the commission's state of the energy union (2023/2890(rsp)).
– madam president, honourable members, i am glad to discuss with you the state of our energy union and the challenges ahead.
europe’s energy system was shaken by an unprecedented energy crisis triggered by the russian war against ukraine.
the state of the energy union report provides a rich set of data to look back at last year’s events and assess their impact.
as usual, the main document is accompanied by specific reports on key topics, such as the progress in implementing the national energy and climate plans, climate action progress, progress on competitiveness of clean energy technologies and energy subsidies.
looking back, the state of the energy union report shows that the eu responded effectively to the energy crisis.
we have diversified our energy supplies towards more reliable, non-russian suppliers – also through the eu energy platform created in april 2022. the crisis forced us to give priority to energy security, but this did not derail progress on the clean transition.
eu greenhouse gas emissions decreased by around 3% in 2022, continuing the downward trend of the last 30 years.
if all fit for 55 measures are implemented, we will be on track towards the eu’s 2030 target of cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 55% – and possibly even surpass it.
the installation of renewable energy capacities increased by 47%.
the sales of electric vehicles went up by 28% compared to 2021. in 2021, the eu’s primary and final energy consumption were 3.2% and 1.8% respectively lower than in 2019 – despite the covid crisis recovery.
for instance, the eu agreed higher 2030 targets for renewable energy and energy efficiency.
in short, the state of the energy union report shows that despite the energy crisis, the eu delivered on its commitment to climate action and fast tracked its clean transition.
yet we remain exposed to energy shocks.
likewise, any incidents on key energy infrastructure may rapidly affect the sentiment of very nervous energy markets.
one of the key bottlenecks to make grids fit for a decarbonised energy system lies in the time needed to reinforce and expand them.
third, investors and industry need now clarity on how member states will translate the new energy and climate targets and objectives into concrete national measures and which public funding can be leveraged.
timely, updated national energy and climate plans are key here, and only 21 member states have so far submitted the draft updated plans, which were due by june this year.
we are in a good position in a number of technological sectors, but we need targeted attention to areas like wind, some parts of solar industry, cables and products for energy-efficient buildings.
reinforcing competitiveness will also go hand in hand with reviewing energy subsidy schemes.
let me conclude with the final point on energy poverty.
we need to take swift and targeted action to address the underlying root causes of energy poverty.
i have presented two weeks ago a recommendation on energy poverty, and on the same day, commissioner reynders and i welcomed the renewal of the joint declaration signed by key stakeholders in the energy sector.
honourable members, this parliament and this commission started the mandate with a strong commitment to tackle energy, climate and environmental challenges.
the 2023 state of the energy union report shows that despite a unique set of challenges, we stayed the course.
i want to pay tribute to you, honourable members and the work of this parliament and the clean energy transition, but let’s not be mistaken: the coming months will be challenging.
we have now seven months before the european elections, and let’s work together to close the open legislative files in the field of energy, ensure robust crisis preparedness and leave, at the end of this mandate, the eu on the right trajectory to achieve its 2030 targets.
– madam president, thank you commissioner kadri simson for representing the state of the energy union report, which every year marks an opportunity for this house to take stock of the progress and also debate what else we should do.
the past year has been one of the decisive actions by the union in the field of energy policy.
energy lies at the heart of our economies.
our green deal and repowereu objectives to have that energy mostly coming from clean indigenous sources therefore makes total sense.
we should be proud of having reduced our dependence on russian fossil fuels, to tighten the rules of gas storage, to have increased the renewable generation in record quantities.
we have delivered on red, on energy efficiency, we delivered on gas storage and we will deliver on methane, on energy performance of buildings, on the gas and hydrogen package, on remit, electricity market design and the net zero industry act.
and there's one more thing missing: in the european union, energy-intensive businesses, what does that mean?
the annual report on the status of our european energy union is an important tool in the fight against climate change and our dependence on fossil fuels and, in particular, putin's gas.
the good news is that we know what it takes to fight climate change.
we need more renewable energy into our electricity grid.
we need more energy efficiency.
mr president, the former climate minister, mr frans timmermans, has sabotaged nuclear energy here for four years.
this study has been peer-reviewed by climate economist and nobel prize winner professor william nordhaus, among others.
in a small country like the netherlands, nuclear energy is profitable.
and actually, that is a key element of the whole eu energy policy.
but for everyone outside the radical climate bubble, the facts are clear.
for the whole eu, a transition to nuclear energy would be excellent.
- a new oxfam study shows that the richest 1% are responsible for more global co2 emissions than the poorest 66%.
this extreme pollution has terrible consequences for already vulnerable groups, such as people living in poverty.
they are also exposed to extreme weather, because there is an increasing link between climate change and, for example, floods and heat waves.
the climate crisis and global inequality are inextricably linked and feed each other.
climate justice has never been more crucial at the climate summit.
our message to cop28 is clear: the commission has already decided to take the necessary measures to reduce global warming by one and a half degrees.
high energy prices prevent european companies from competing with the rest of the world.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to adopt a proposal for a directive on the environment.
there is a difference of opinion within the european parliament between the parties who see the green deal as a tool for achieving sustainability and the energy transition, thus strengthening our competitive position and that of our industry, and those who see the green deal as a burden on our industry and industry.
if we do not start greening ourselves in the eu, then these sustainable components and products will come mainly from abroad.
we are therefore giving young fishermen the opportunity to spread across europe and to maintain sustainable fishing.
furthermore, more attention should be paid to other factors affecting the fungus, such as water pollution, parasites and scabies.
biodiversity is being affected and our health is also at stake.
the problem of pesticide pollution is persistent.
sustainable alternatives are available, but we must ensure that more alternatives are available quickly, especially in the form of biological pesticides.
good for the environment, public health and the farmers themselves.
as a doctor and environmental politician, i am for careful management of plant protection products and, of course, for a reduction strategy.
we know, and these are the facts, that intensive use of pesticides is one of the main drivers of species extinction and biodiversity decline in europe.
unfortunately, the commission's proposal did not take these into account, but now the environment committee's position has been improved.
‘sustainable use of pesticides’ – when it comes to chemical pesticides, isn’t that a bit of a contradiction?
when it comes to our health, biodiversity and the health of our ecosystem, the less pesticides, the better, which is why we needed to increase ambition of the commission’s proposal, especially when it comes to reduction targets.
in particular, initiatives that reduce environmental impact, such as precision farming and the use of low-risk resources.
furthermore, climate policy would become the exclusive competence of the european union.
and that electricity, which we need to sustain our mobility, our industry, our built environment and to build a hydrogen economy, we need to produce without greenhouse gas emissions.
sustainable energy sources and nuclear power can together deliver that climate-neutral electricity.
it is precisely in countries with limited space, such as my own netherlands, that we can provide nuclear energy in part of our energy mix.
we are working on climate policy and increasing europe's strategic autonomy.
let us not be afraid of nuclear energy, like the one part of this house, because it is not necessary.
let us also not see nuclear energy as a solution to everything and use it as an excuse to do nothing for the rest of us, like another part of this house.
the honest truth is that nuclear energy will undoubtedly play a greater role in eu and member states' energy policies, in addition to renewable energy sources.
those who turn a blind eye to this are not taking the climate problem seriously enough.
the energy transition is a material transition and if we want to achieve that green ambition as europe, we need more of those raw materials.
so the energy transition is just a material transition.
and in the transition to a green europe without fossil fuels, rare raw materials and the production of sustainable technologies are crucial.
health professionals to improve prevention, diagnosis and treatment and to ensure safer and more efficient care by avoiding disruptions; researchers have access to more (and more robust) health data for research and innovation while being less expensive; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment, which is intended to encourage the development of new medicines and medical devices, is to be implemented in the light of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the environment.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
and even as regards climate, you love saying, vice-president borrell, that china is a necessary partner.
first, to weigh in on the serious and persistent human rights violations from the uyghurs to tibet, and the list would be long; second, to continue to tackle together global challenges that require chinese involvement, such as climate change, environmental and health protection, food security and financial stability.
they are dealing with the consequences of the climate crisis, the housing crisis, but also a crisis of political leadership.
worldwide, young people are taking the lead in the fight against climate change.
in fact, without them, climate would never have been on the agenda.
last week at the climate summit in dubai, i spoke a lot with young activists, including the ambitious members of the young climate movement in the netherlands.
their message to all the politicians in the house of representatives was as follows: for our generation, climate action is vital.
because even at the climate summit, the gap between young people and decision-makers is huge.
as far as i am concerned, the next climate summit will be attended by 2,400 young people from the most vulnerable regions to climate change, instead of the 2 400 fossil lobbyists.