he said our waste is our responsibility.
but you don't have to worry about moving it, you have to focus and ask the producers to take care of their own waste.
i'm glad you said you were in favor of reducing co2 emissions.
first, let me emphasise the economic importance of the retail industrial ecosystem.
and of course, the sme dimension is crucial: 5.5 million companies are active in the ecosystem, 99% of which are smes.
and we know how the retail ecosystem was badly hurt by the covid-19 pandemic.
so today the energy crisis is also harsh on retailers and in particular on retail smes.
we all have in mind the bakeries example, here again we have worked hard to provide emergency solutions through energy policy or state-aid tools.
such pathways support the green and digital transition of industrial ecosystems, among which the retail ecosystem.
i'm glad you're supporting energy independence, including nuclear power.
and remember, the energy crisis started before the war.
at the same time, a directive on the taxation of coal and gas energy which will have to be reviewed by the presidency where an increase of 300-500% is foreseen.
it is not possible to create a predictable legal environment for game manufacturers - an important european industry - if we adopt regulations every two months that contain different recommendations.
while the restoration of drug safety will have to wait, we must think about reorganising the european pharmaceutical environment today.
the fact that in such difficult conditions, with such a huge increase in energy prices, fertiliser prices, with such a huge increase in the prices of animal feed, that food security in the european union is maintained and ensured, is a great effort by our farmers and support for farmers with the instruments available in the common agricultural policy.
president, commissioner, thank you for coming, because everyone who says inflation immediately says energy prices.
because while the rise in energy or fuel costs - and in general all energy sources - has affected the whole economy, agriculture has also been hit by the high cost of fertilisers, which are linked to energy costs.
this is very important for improving such sustainable agricultural development, ensuring a balance between agriculture and livestock, greater independence of agriculture.
in 2022, the commission proposed draft legislation on corporate sustainability due diligence and on banning forced labour products from eu markets.
other concrete areas for work in 2023 include digital transformation and surveillance technologies, the human rights consequence of climate change and environmental degradation and the right to development.
and we cannot keep silent about this, ladies and gentlemen, because if we want to talk about making decisions about the future, if we want to talk about the energy transition, if we want to talk about the fact that the decisions taken by the european institutions and bodies are to be credible, then we should first of all do everything we can at this moment to clean up the european union of this corruption scandal, to clarify all the issues and not give any more grounds for the fact that when the european union talks about the rule of law, many of us have the feeling that it is only about the rule of law in many european countries, which the rule of law does not break, only to cover up scams and the breach of the rule of law here in the european union.
job creation and quality are essential elements of the eu's europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
she said many fascinating things about vaccination strategies, about green hydrogen energy, about organ transplants.
over €65 billion in 2021 was allocated by the european investment bank to invest in cities and regions, innovation and small business development, climate and environment protection and infrastructure.
however, the fact that successive economic and financial crises, high energy prices and rising raw material prices have a serious impact on the competitiveness of european smes obliges the eib to continue its ongoing surveillance and to continue its efforts to increase support through additional growth capital to enable companies to scale up and expand in the european and global markets.
it is a comprehensive offer to deliver strategic infrastructure investments in five key areas: digitalisation, transport, energy and climate, health and education.
the only sustainable and humane solution is to dissuade them from leaving, to prevent them from entering and to systematically expel them if they do arrive.
one of the main topics of the forthcoming special european council will be the need to develop sustainable solutions in the field of asylum and migration.
secondly, the energy independence of the whole european union.
it is therefore important that we help them on their european journey and that we also make this journey concrete at the new summit which starts tomorrow, by talking about the extension of economic cooperation, the extension of the roaming call zone or cooperation in the energy sector.
dear energy workers and electricity grid workers!
i thank all of you who help ukraine with vitally important supplies, weapons, ammunition, energy equipment and fuel, with the thousands of things without which we would not be able to endure this total war.
in addition to human tragedy, the built environment suffered tremendous damage.
we agree that an urgent response to the energy crisis, which is the fault of the european union's leaders, is needed.
we believe that this will prevent those member states which have the money from the sale of free allowances from being able to transform their energy system.
repowereu should deliver on our ambitions, it should focus on rebuilding europe's supply chains of raw materials to ensure europe's energy security.
and we're not going to do that without relying on a realistic balance of our energy needs.
but ultimately, we have another 'ambitious' plan, based on the mirages of meeting our energy needs from green sources.
in many cases, it's a cruel joke about citizens struggling with horrendous energy bills.
45% of energy from renewables by 2030?
let's make it easier for european entrepreneurs to save energy, instead of telling them how to do it!
finally, it is a regulation that will deepen the energy crisis and road closures.
the battery is composed entirely of carbon trace elements, not to mention lithium, which has skyrocketed in price thousands of times over.
mining it is an absolute environmental disaster, a ton of lithium is equivalent to a dozen tons of carbon dioxide, not to mention the amount of water that is needed to extract it.
my question is this: are you not concerned that this solution of producing electric motors and eliminating combustion engines will lead to the creation of a mountain of toxic waste?
with this 'fit for 55' agreement, the path to a climate-neutral europe will soon be visible right down to our driveway.
according to the flemish climate plan, the phase-out will start in 2029. this is one of our key levers to reduce co2 emissions and make electric cars more affordable.
we must also acknowledge the enormous mistake and naivety of moving purposefully towards dependence on russian energy sources.
i personally believe that the biggest problem in the western balkans is the growing backwardness in various policies, including infrastructure, the large backwardness in environmental infrastructure, broadband infrastructure.
on the other hand, we have energy problems.
be it transport or trade routes, be it energy.
there's clearly a lack of energy sources.
there's clearly a lack of clean energy sources.
only through replacing coal with gas we would reduce by 65 % the emissions of the region.
and yes, i agree with you, we have to help them to create an investor's climate that will attract foreign direct investment.
however, to be sustainable, it needs to ensure it sticks to the task at hand and remains non-political and has broad support across this house.
there are a couple of them – we need to continue supporting ukraine as long as it takes to defend itself; we need to make our sanctions more efficient and close all the gaps that enabled their evasion; common foreign, defence and security policies cannot remain the soft spots of our integration; we need to be strategically autonomous when it comes to essential industries and services; we need to continue working together on reducing our energy dependence; prioritising trade and economic relations without insisting on our political values leaves europe exposed to crisis, and we need more europe to address all these challenges.
energy prices are skyrocketing in our country, and america is attracting investors with paradise conditions.
the green deal industrial plan is not only the eu's response to the profound changes in the energy sector, resulting from the carbon emissions reduction efforts and the war in ukraine and the accelerated energy transition in russia, but also takes into account the existence of other national initiatives in the area of climate change and energy promotion, such as the us inflation reduction act worth €330 billion or the japanese planned green transition worth around €140 billion.
it must focus on agendas and options for industrial leadership of the energy transition and the associated digital transition, which take advantage of knowledge networks and productive capacity networks in the union space.
the rule of law report also addressed the situation of journalists in greece, which has raised significant concerns due to the fact that several journalists have faced threats and physical attacks while their professional environment has further deteriorated.
the commission issued a specific recommendation to greece on this issue, aiming at establishing legislative and other safeguards to improve the physical safety and working environment of journalists, taking into account european standards on the protection of journalists, including the commission’s recommendation on the safety of journalists, adopted in 2021. the report also noted that the greek government has recently signed a memorandum of understanding on the protection, safety and empowerment of journalists and other media professionals, which contains a common framework of cooperation among the different ministries, including the preparation of proposals for legislative and non-legislative initiatives to ensure the protection of journalists.
building walls is both populist, pointless and a total waste of our tax dollars.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
if we don't want to risk another crisis summer, we shouldn't waste any more time.
we're taking away people's land, we're destroying the environment and poverty in developing countries, we're creating conflict.
all of this is incalculable, although it's very valuable from a discussion point of view, because we all want to live in a clean ecological space.
we need them in the energy sector, the automotive sector, the defense sector, the information technology sector, and so on.
the union is, however, heavily dependent on supplies of lithium, cobalt, magnesium and other rare metals from countries such as china, burma, vietnam and the congo, which not only degrade the environment by not applying the standards we respect and which we apply, but are also far from creating labour rights and protecting human rights.
for example, the tonne of lithium needed to make car batteries in my country of poland went up by 1500% between 2020 and 2022. in pursuing our climate goals, we cannot allow a repeat of the situation where the union became dependent on russian gas supplies.
the rapid and chaotic energy and climate transition is having a negative impact on our economy.
i am referring here to coking coal, which is of great importance for steel production, and the by-products of this process are essential for renewable energy.
sustainable transport, and in particular cycling, is becoming a permanent part of the european landscape.
the strategy should also give local authorities the possibility to benefit from the european regional development funds and the cohesion funds so that infrastructure encourages europeans to use sustainable means of transport, thereby contributing to the development of the indigenous cycling industry.
the shortage and record high prices of nitrogen fertilisers, caused by russia's war in ukraine and the subsequent energy crisis, have left farmers facing a dilemma whether to plan the next planting or to stop their business altogether.
we must not allow europe's energy dependence on russia to be replaced by a dependence on fertilisers and food.
the energy crisis, which was felt before the war, which is the result of the absolute financial pyramid that is the ets, after the war, caused the economies of the member states, but the economy, also managed, in a sense, by the european union, went into manual control.
thank you, norbert linz, for asking this question, so that we can talk today about the importance of fertilisers and at the same time be able to say with confidence that the war in ukraine has exposed the fact that we in europe have not paid enough attention to all three basic security areas: on the one hand, military security, food security and energy security.
it is therefore essential to ensure that europe's energy supply is strengthened, that we have a stable market here, and also that we take care of the european mineral fertiliser industry and that europe becomes strategically autonomous here too and that we have production on our own soil.
this, as you all know, has resulted in the price of produce for our farmers in the european union, to have a 149% increase last september, september 2022, compared to september 2021. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
it is therefore a common recognition in this chamber that there is more need than ever to take measures to maintain a sustainable european fertiliser production, to optimise the use and to reduce the dependence on mineral fertilisers.
last year, europe had to deal with an energy crisis caused by russia.
farmers have felt the crisis in two ways: in the form of energy prices and in the form of fertilizer prices.
legislation is needed to at least temporarily address the restrictive requirements imposed today by the renewable energy directive.
the next item is the report by mr ciarán cuffe, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the energy performance of buildings (recast) (com (2021) 0802 - c9-0469/2021 - 2021/0426 (cod)) (a9-0033/2023).
plus, the climate here is different, and we'll pay a lot more than you, plus, of course, the bureaucratic costs of these certificates.
the objectives of the energy performance of buildings directive (epbd), such as: achieving highly energy efficient and decarbonised building resources by 2050; creating a stable investment environment; enabling consumers and businesses to make energy and financial savings decisions, are of course necessary and can have a positive impact on citizens, especially in today's context of inflation, energy crises and energy price fluctuations, but the directive does not create any new funds and improving energy performance comes at a cost.
the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the environment and the environment protection of buildings and the environment protection of the environment.
the new definition of zero-emission buildings says that only buildings powered by renewable energy will be given this title, which excludes gas-based district heating networks, even those that are highly efficient according to the definition of efficiency in the eed.
the report amending the energy performance of buildings directive is another example of socially harmful policies dictated by the ideological fixation of the left-liberal elites in europe.
unfortunately, even the energy crisis that has returned, exacerbated in large part by the ongoing russian aggression in ukraine, has not brought any relief.
i remind you of the second article of the climate law, it was a difficult compromise to reach, an article that says that we are in solidarity at the level of the european union, that we take into account the absorbers not only natural, because we knew that nature can not cope.
war, pandemic, skyrocketing energy prices, the ets, which is already at 100 euros, and we're talking about doubling that reserve.
i appreciate that, but two hours ago, there was a debate on the energy performance of buildings in this room.
sir, the romanian mp said that 60% of romanians won't be able to afford climate policy.
a dutch mp said that in the netherlands alone, one billion euros is needed for the paperwork to implement a climate policy.
many garment companies use cheap labor, grossly violating workers' rights and often ignoring environmental concerns.
we want to be guided by the priority of the cfp in our work for sustainable development.
for example, today we have introduced projects under the "ready for 55" programme, or all these projects that are related to politics, climate change, they will unfortunately result in europe becoming poorer.
we've already talked about this here, and the international energy agency is warning us to be vigilant about 2023. the point is, there's a gap of 27 billion in gas demand.
and so my question is: do you see, in addition to the energy cuts that are already taking place in european countries, and in addition to the ambitious plans for renewable energy sources, any other actions that can help this year, next year, in the next few years, in terms of energy security?
because it's important that we have a coherent system, because there are decisions in the european energy industry, in highly developed countries like germany and beyond, a return to energy based on fossil fuels, with hard coal.
in this context, i have a question: will the regulation currently under consideration on the reduction of methane emissions, and in particular the provisions imposing information obligations on producers and importers of natural gas with regard to methane emissions, contribute to discouraging lng producers from entering the european market at such an important time and with such important plans as those mentioned by the commissioner?
programs, microfinance, but also more support for moldova, because indeed this energy crisis is felt.
we need help for the government to subsidize energy prices to help these poorest people.
private investors are not investing in europe today, first of all because there are too many rules, because they are too complicated and because there is no legislative environment that is suitable for this type of investment.
record lines are forming at food outlets across europe as the major energy and food companies pay record dividends to their major shareholders.
it is only recently - about a year ago - that the energy market has gone completely haywire and consumers have been paying for this market failure in the form of increasingly extreme high prices for electricity and gas.
you may recall, mrs von der leyen, that about six months ago, i believe it was august 2022, you announced that the commission would present a proposal for energy market reform that would at least reconsider the dysfunctional merit order principle, the principle that leads to the most expensive gas power plants determining the price of electricity.
the commissioner responsible, mrs kadri simson, has indicated that since you made the announcements, madam president, she has met with 57 representatives of energy companies and only once with a representative of a consumer organisation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not being implemented in the same way as the community's energy policy.
instead of tackling market failure and finally turning the energy transition and energy supply upside down, they're doing a little bit of a symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom-symptom- energy poverty could be better tackled by abandoning the merit order principle, which would immediately make the price of electricity more sustainable.
30 million people in the european union were living in energy poverty before the cost of living crisis and the explosion in energy prices.
public control of energy supply, massive expansion of renewable energy are further building blocks to protect the many in europe from the greed of the few.
it is therefore clear that we cannot depend on foreign countries any longer, but we must keep energy costs down, otherwise our competitiveness will be weakened.
the next council will be decisive in making up for lost time, but energy measures are not enough.
but we must look to secure investments and dedicated funds for this new industrial era based on clean and sustainable energy.
the world goes on without us and today is the time to show ourselves united here in brussels for an energy recovery fund which would be vital for italy and for the union.
they now want to use the region's energy know-how to produce green hydrogen.
the european parliament has long advocated faster authorisation procedures with more flexibility, if this is necessary to achieve the energy transition.
and at the same time, you're going to have modern panels, modern wind turbines that will produce energy.
energy integration and these challenges that we're talking about today are real challenges for years to come.
in the light of these developments, the uncritical pursuit of eu energy and climate policy is increasingly being questioned.
this is not the time or the place to blindly implement an unrealistic target of a 100 percent reduction in co2 emissions from new cars by 2035. the commission notes that the 'green' objective of the directive is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50% by 2020 and to reduce emissions by at least 50% by 2050. therefore, the polish government opposed the adoption of such a regulation, which would have strengthened the co2 emission standards for new passenger cars and for new light commercial vehicles.
the presidency remains committed to ensure that human rights are protected in the member states, to protect those who fight for their rights, we are advancing work with strategic laws, such as on the public participation directive actively, and also examining the proposal for a media freedom act, which aims to create a safe working environment for journalists and ensure a sound and plural media ecosystem, to cite some examples.
courageous human rights defenders, including women, youth, lgbti persons or environmental defenders, are at the forefront of long-standing and emerging human rights battles by standing up against corruption, speaking out against the impact of climate change, combating internet shutdowns or documenting war crimes.
the purpose of adoption is to provide a child with an environment in which he can grow up in an atmosphere of love and understanding and develop harmoniously.
a child should grow up in a family environment.
do you not think that this situation is due to the dominance of industrial agriculture in these countries and the lack of small farming and biodiversity?
it focuses on the goal of eliminating pesticides completely by 2035 and restoring biodiversity, and it takes a very broad and general approach to supporting farmers, mainly in the context of developing organic production.
i am thinking in particular of the european carbon trading system.
because we know -- or we think -- that about 50 percent of the energy, heat, and water costs in the european union are the result of implementing this very bad system.
the ecr group has no problem voting in favour of the ozone depleting substances regulation.
this will disrupt the energy system, disrupt energy efficiency, disrupt small and medium-sized businesses, and ultimately, basically, heat pumps will be unavailable to the market because they're so expensive.
i think everyone would agree that we need to save our planet's forests and intensify efforts to preserve biodiversity.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
the primary objective of cbam was to prevent emissions leakage.
this is the term used to describe the relocation of companies from the european union to third countries because of the strict environmental requirements, mainly related to the price of co2 emissions.
unfortunately, the legislative work in the european parliament has, as usual, turned this mechanism into a climate weapon.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
europeans have been funded for a very expensive energy transition.
today we are discussing the key elements of the 'fit for 55' package, which sets out european climate law.
climate change is coming.
to ensure europe's prosperity for decades to come, we should provide the necessary investment for industry and support for the most vulnerable through instruments such as the just transition fund, the social climate fund and, for countries such as poland, through an increased modernisation fund.
the extension of the european emissions trading system to new sectors, planned for 2027, will have negative social consequences due to the increase in fuel prices and the fees associated with heating homes with fossil fuels.
this will create further costs for our citizens who are already struggling with the energy crisis, high commodity prices and inflation.
the crisis caused by the war in ukraine has exacerbated the plight of eu citizens due to the sharp rise in energy prices.
the 'fit for 55' package is also a significant burden on society, setting unrealistic targets and ambitions and having a significant impact on member states' energy mix.
in this context, the initiative to establish a social climate fund as an instrument to address energy poverty should be welcomed.
however, the essential objective of the establishment of the social climate fund is only to mitigate the impact of new greenhouse gas emission fees on prices that will increase as a result of the extension of the european emissions trading system (eu ets) to buildings and road transport.
this scope and the direct linkage of the fund to the establishment of a new ets covering emissions from buildings and transport ets2/brt (buildings and road transport) is inappropriate.
the new fund is needed to tackle energy poverty and the social consequences of existing eu climate policy instruments, irrespective of the ets extension.
it would have fallen long ago, and it would have been left with your pathetic helmets and energy-saving light bulbs that the ukrainians could at most throw at the russians.
our renewable and high-tech industry would not survive without chinese raw materials, and it is impossible to replace them quickly with other sources of supply.
the development of renewable energy sources in some countries of the union is leading to a decline in the power of the utilities and the development of energy storage systems is becoming more challenging.
so the question is: why are we taking legal action that deprives us in europe of the skills to mine, to extract these resources, when the independence of the european climate policy agenda is linked to the security of the supply of resources?
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, strengthening energy independence, speeding up the transition to renewable energy and investing in the storage of sources are at the heart of the european union's strategy.
we need a common european strategy, including from an energy point of view.
europe must work to build a common, integrated and modern energy policy, which is secure and capable of achieving independence in the energy mix within a few years.
the development of energy infrastructure is crucial to the challenges we face today.
we must be fully prepared both to fight for our climate and to be prepared to build energy independence.
the union's efforts on energy storage are a step in the right direction, but concrete measures for member states on renewable energy and energy storage must come from brussels.
because to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, we need to be able to store six times more energy in europe than we do today.
let's fight for our environment, but let's fight for it smartly.
let's fight for our environment, but let's fight for it wisely, i say again.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact assessment is carried out in a transparent manner.
i am strongly opposed to discriminating against certain crypto assets on the grounds of environmental concerns.
in our actions, let us do everything we can to ensure that the slogans of sustainable financing of the global health agenda actually contribute to protecting and improving the health of patients.
but it is hard to ignore that until recently in this house and in many european countries, putin was seen as a statesman, a democrat, with whom one could do business and make the european union's energy security dependent on russian hydrocarbons.
because, in fact, the beneficiary of all the recommendations is the european union, and all the climate summits, although they very often become the vanity and emissions marketplaces, show who is responsible for those more than 100 years of the production cycle, the last 100 years of excess carbon dioxide emissions.
for example, the whole section on absorption natural absorption, which was not supposed to be in the climate law.
i remind you that it's actually been the last few hours that we've decided that we're talking about absorption, and we're talking about carbon capture.
just recently, in an absolutely inexplicable way in the midst of war, in the midst of crisis, germany shut down its last nuclear plants, emsland, isar 2 and neckarvestheim 2, and no longer produces electricity from nuclear energy.
don't you understand that people work in this economy and they need this energy to have jobs and to pay taxes that pay your wages?
just this week, we voted on the climate package from this green deal commission.
our food system, which accounts for a third of climate emissions, is out of control.
even the deforestation law has climate-damaging exceptions for corn and meat.
will the commission, as promised, come forward with the framework law on sustainable food and will it finally include the necessary measures to tackle the climate catastrophe that is on our table?
mr president, commissioner, climate change is happening with greater force than we anticipated - extreme drought, fires.
no one even denies the ongoing climate change, only some say that europe can do nothing, that we are dependent on china and the usa.
mr president, commissioner, the latest report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change sums up its message in three words: gravity, urgency and hope.
the consequences in terms of food insecurity, drought and environmental migration should alarm us all.
to take action to drastically reduce emissions.
the european union is doing just that, completing the adoption of the fit for 55 package to become the first continent to be zero emission by 2050. because it is no longer enough to say that we must take climate change seriously and then, also in this house, to oppose decisively any measure aimed at reducing emissions and limiting the use of fossil fuels.
the transition is underway and there is no turning back, as evidenced by the failure of the right wing in its attempt to block the green deal measures: the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the emissions of co2 from cars, buildings and, more recently, the ets for industrial emissions.
we're here today to discuss yet another report on climate change.
each report is painfully similar and secondary, but each one shows one simple principle that no climate religionist wants to accept: none of the initiatives taken so far by the european union to reduce greenhouse gas emissions - initiatives that have consumed gigantic public subsidies and international funds - i repeat, none have improved the situation in terms of limiting climate warming, none have improved the quality, the biodiversity.
because it is not the european union's political actions that will determine the climate of our planet, but the neglect of emitters like china, india and the middle east.
by forcing member states to adopt a green revolution, we will not save the climate, but we will only destroy the competitiveness of our economies, leading to the impoverishment of our society and the global power of micro-corporations, which are already the biggest and, as reports confirm, the only beneficiaries of the green revolution in europe.
the successive crises: economic, related to covid-19, energy, inflation, climate have deepened the backwardness of the least developed regions, regions in transition, the most remote regions, mountain, island, sparsely populated and rural regions.
these words are all the more surprising because they come from a politician whose country is largely responsible for many of the enormous problems that the entire community is now facing: germany pushed for the massive and uncritical opening of the community's borders, was deaf to the protests against the joint investments with russia in nord stream and nord stream ii, forgetting about the energy security not only of its own country but of the entire community.
the eu’s short—term objective is to contribute to establishing a sustainable ceasefire so as to enable civilians to find safety and allow humanitarian actors to deliver life—saving assistance.
as soon as the security environment allows, we shall stand ready to step in immediately through a coordinated team europe approach.
it is vital that the european union, the african union, the un and the international community work together to find a sustainable solution and support sudan’s transition to democracy.
the next item is the report by mrs biljana borzan, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directives 2005/29/ec and 2011/83/eu as regards the empowerment of consumers in the ecological transition through better information and better protection against unfair practices (com ((2022) 0143 - c9-0128/2022 - 2022/0092cod)).
unfortunately, it's often just pseudo-ecological marketing that has nothing to do with real environmental assessment.
they are vague and de facto prohibit the advertising of products for everyday use, but also those needed for the energy transition, such as solar panels.
these solutions are certainly not designed to protect the environment, but are merely a sign of green populism.
the implementation of increasingly ambitious climate policies is posing many new challenges for the energy sector.
the directive almost doubles the existing share of renewable energy in the european union and increases the previous 2030 target by 10 percentage points.
at the current technological stage, we already see the challenges of balancing renewable energy in the electricity system.
moreover, the regulations should not create such a high risk and risk to the financial stability of the energy sector in general.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change action plan, including the implementation of the union's climate change action plan, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change action plan.
right now, we face many challenges, whether it’s the transition to climate neutrality or securing home-grown cheap electricity production.
with this in mind, i look forward to the vote and to having the new renewable energy directive approved.
and in that respect, i think the environmental aspects have been taken into account.
whether the wood is rotting in the forest or is used for energy purposes, the co2 balance is more on the side of the use of the wood.
we need all renewable energy.
if we do not accept this, we will see an explosion in the cost of the energy transition.
for us, the benchmark is the paris climate targets, the co2 targets, and not the green ideology, which wants to exclude certain things, wants to make them better, wants to ban them.
i believe that this open technology directive is the right and pragmatic way forward for a successful energy transition.
the european commission's reckless decisions and disastrous sanctions policy have left citizens and businesses facing a serious energy crisis.
energy markets have been hit by hectic price fluctuations, which have raised recession accounts across europe and undermined investment confidence.
first, it has been proven that sufficient and affordable energy is vital to the functioning of the european economy.
renewable energy sources therefore also play a key role in achieving the union's energy independence.
increasing their share in the energy mix should be supported from both security of supply and climate protection perspectives.
on the other hand, it has become clear that energy policy problems generated by the commission can be solved by the member states.
a good example of this is hungary, which has implemented one of the fastest solar energy programmes in europe in recent years, while maintaining the protection of the grid.
finally, it became clear that the proposals in brussels were more likely to hinder efforts to increase the use of renewable energy.
the impact assessment of the directive, which was carried out before the energy crisis, is outdated and the objectives set are therefore unfounded.
furthermore, the commission is also financially hindering renewable energy projects by blocking eu funds to hungary and poland.
this is unacceptable the commission should abolish the harmful sanctions, member states should hand over their resources and should provide all the help they can to promote investments in renewable energy.
in my opinion, it was too late yesterday and we can't afford to waste any more time.
it is worth noting that, thanks to the joint action of the commission and parliament, we have managed to avoid a major crisis in the european energy market.
after the war in ukraine broke out, the risk of a massive energy crisis was on the member states.
the measures taken to supplement gas storage, diversify energy import infrastructure routes, invest in renewable energy sources and energy efficiency have helped to reduce energy demand.
it is worth noting that the use of renewable energy has increased significantly, as has the use of photovoltaics and wind farms.
during the energy market downturn, we saw a significant increase in fossil fuel subsidies, which is why member states have launched crisis support mechanisms of eur 195 billion.
in my opinion, this is not in line with the union's climate policy and even deviates significantly from it.
energy prices in the european union are currently very high for both individual and business customers.
the european union's energy policy should therefore be reviewed to take into account and take care of consumers' interests first.
armed conflicts, poverty, climate change, violence against children both online and in the real world, lack of access to education, health care, and the much-needed psychological and social support in recent years.
another climate summit ahead of us.
and again, i think it is good that, as for many years now, the european parliament has been speaking out to strengthen eu climate diplomacy by increasing its ambition, by setting an example for the european union in the fight against climate change, global warming.
but i think we should ask ourselves, beyond setting a good example and increasing our ambition on our continent, are we really impacting the climate and the environment?
the commissioner rightly noted that this is a global process and he talked about decarbonisation, but in recent years we have seen the chinese increase their coal-based energy, increase their coal production, and that's billions of tons going into their economic market.
do we have any other arguments going into this cop to be effective in convincing the world's great players that we're saving the climate?
i'm also pleased that my amendments are releasing the potential and energy of independent repair services that are key to reducing the cost of servicing products outside the authorized point.
so absorbing, absorbing carbon dioxide is very important.
unfortunately, if we don't tie this system to the ets, which is, if we don't reduce the purchase of rights by buying carbon capture and absorption certificates, we're just going to create ets 3, which will be absolutely functional on the market without any control.
and above all for one reason: this is the first agreement to impose sanctions on non-compliance with commitments to sustainable development, namely the paris agreement and the international labour organization conventions.
the sustainable development chapters are thus no longer the poor relative in trade agreements.
mr president, commissioner, as greens we have been fighting for sustainable trade with respect for man and the environment for years.
the trade agreement with new zealand is the most sustainable that europe has negotiated to date.
finally, there are sanctions on the table that can help us address violations of the climate agreement and of fundamental labour rights.
for the first time, the rights of indigenous peoples are included in a trade agreement and there is also close cooperation on sustainable agriculture and animal welfare.
we believe that trade is a powerful lever for enforcing respect for climate, labour rights and indigenous peoples.
and with a far-reaching and enforceable sustainability chapter, the agreement with new zealand undoubtedly addresses an important demand from parliament and civil society.
the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment.
this is an important step towards a fairer trade policy, and at the same time we could have achieved more: measurable milestones in climate protection, better rules for the liberalization of environmental goods and joint efforts for more sustainable agriculture; and too many parts of sustainability capital are just not accountable.
let us make europe a trading partner that does not operate on the backs of employees, not at the expense of the environment!
the commission is letting the pressure from the left of parliament and setting even more sustainability conditions for the country to barely have any trade with us.
just like us, new zealand adheres to the paris climate agreement, new zealand is committed to sustainable development and new zealand is dedicated to core labour standards.
in a world facing increasing protectionism, new zealand and the european union have together set a positive example and laid an important foundation for fair, rules-based and sustainable trade.
however, this cooperation must not only mean strengthening our respective economies, but also addressing common challenges, like those related to sustainability and climate change.
the new objectives should be realistic, measurable, technically feasible, while respecting the concept of sustainable development, and therefore not only environmental but also economic and social aspects.
another issue is the need to allow member states the greatest possible flexibility in extended producer responsibility, auction systems and waste management.
we need a common energy policy because we had a crisis.
there was no pandemic, there was no war on our eastern fringes, there was no energy crisis, and there was no need to harmonize some elements of energy policy.
the project envisages the creation of two new eu exclusive competencies in the fields of environment and biodiversity, as well as a significant expansion of shared competencies to seven new areas: foreign and security policy, border security, public health, civil defence, industry and education.
the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on: the question requiring an oral reply to the council by alexander bernhuber, milan brglez, martin hoysik, michèle rivasi, anna hazekamp on behalf of the committee on environment, public health and food safety on the amendment of the insect pollinators initiative the new order for pollinators (o-000050/2023 - b9-0032/23) (2023/2720 ((rsp)) and the question requiring an oral reply to the commission by alexander bernhuber, milan brglez, martin hoysik, michèle rivasi, anne hazekamp on behalf of the committee on environment, public health and natural safety (o-000020/2023) the amendments to the commission's oral protection, public health and safety initiative (o-000020/2323) the amend
i have received one draft resolution submitted in accordance with rule 136 (5) of the rules of procedure1.
let's give small modular reactors a chance because we want europe to be energy self-sufficient, industrially developed, efficient, all with the least possible climate impact.
and let's make sure these reactors are co-owned by the citizens so that the profits from cheap energy production go into the pockets of ordinary citizens.
poland is a producer of two raw materials which are extremely important in the process of energy transformation: coke coal, which is necessary for the production of steel, and copper, which is necessary for the production of cables and semiconductors.
the european energy transformation needs steel, it needs copper and many other key raw materials, which must be sought primarily in europe.
our climate policy of systematically eliminating the mining and surrounding mining industry, the institutional, academic backdrop, is somewhat at odds with the assumptions of this act, which are very important.
the eu has simply fallen asleep in its efforts to take care of energy sources in time, while the chinese, on the other hand, have been opening up new markets to this issue for years.
the interests of a minority are transformed into privileged regimes that attack the rights of the population and the environment.
i echo that further support measures should be put in place to support research and innovation for material substitutions, including sustainable supplies in trade agreements and two strategic partnerships for raw materials.
mr president, mr commissioner, ensuring a safe and sustainable supply of critical raw materials is a key condition for the european union to implement an open strategic autonomy strategy and is a global benchmark in this multipolar and multilateral way of consolidating its independence as a prerequisite for a healthy and meaningful independence.
i welcome the broad consensus reached in the commission debate on the fundamental principles of action, in particular: focusing on research and innovation to find new materials and processes that are more sustainable and more competitive and reduce pressure on resources; the integrated approach and monitoring of value chains from extraction to processing and recycling; transparency and de-bureaucratization of licensing processes; the definition of strategic partnerships with third countries, based on the principle of diversification of sources of supply and active cooperation, generating mutual benefits and refusing extractive practices and not taking due account of due diligence.
at a time of great geopolitical tension, this strategic framework is good for the economy, it is good for the environment and it is good for people.
but when i was in kolwezi this summer, on the edge of the biggest copper mine in africa, i told you about it, and you can see what environmental impact mining really has.
our innovation-led continent has up to now been overly reliant on external sources for materials essential to technologies like chips, electric vehicle batteries or renewable energy systems.
learned by experience and dependence on russian energy, this week in the european parliament we are responding to china's increasingly aggressive trade practices and passing a law to reduce our dependence on more efficient resource use, sustainable products and innovation.
the transition to climate neutrality requires a more conscious use of our raw materials.
critical raw materials are essential for the production of environmental technologies and for digitisation.
the aim is to increase the recovery of critical raw materials through waste prevention, reuse, repair, reprocessing and reuse of products.
this is why it is all the more important to promote continuous research and innovation in order to ensure that the use of raw materials is both sustainable and ethical and economically responsible.
the commission has also adopted a number of proposals for a new framework for the development of the european union's energy infrastructure.
without silesia's industry and new jobs in upper silesia, there will be no eu energy transformation.
as regards the energy transformation in poland and the coal sector in upper silesia, a social agreement, that is, an agreement between trade unions, is on the table, which negotiated with the polish government the year 2049 for certain mines.
we cannot waste social support for a greater union involvement in the health sector created after the covid-19 pandemic, where joint action has proven more effective than competitive price action.
russia is responsible for severe, long-term and often irreversible damage to ukraine’s natural environment.
in the midst of this brutal war, ukraine has shown outstanding leadership by responding to russia’s blatant violations of international law with a commitment to strengthen accountability for serious environmental crimes.
a better recognition of environmental crimes in armed conflicts is urgently needed.
now, restoring ukraine’s natural environment from the damage caused by this war will require significant financial support and expertise, but also strong environmental legislation and processes.
a rapid opening of eu accession talks, and the adoption of the eu acquis on environment, would help maintain the pace of the ongoing reforms.
building back better will be key for a sustainable recovery of ukraine.
both public and private financing for ukraine must be well aligned with the country’s social and environmental goals.
the destruction of the kachovka dam, one of europe's largest water reservoirs, has led to mass fish deaths, decaying trees, oil and poison leaks, and the destruction of biodiversity.
because the immense damage to the environment is irreversible.
but above all, we must prevent serious, long-lasting and irreversible environmental damage and criminalize ecocide.
the sub-theme is that this also means that the soil is contaminated, that the landscape is contaminated by huge amounts of russian metal waste on ukrainian soil.
this means not only pollution, but the long-standing non-use of the land for agricultural purposes.
the russian aggression against ukraine has caused serious environmental damage, including air, water and soil pollution and biodiversity loss.
ukraine, with international support, is investigating the legal possibilities of bringing russia to justice for environmental crimes.
the european parliament recognised the link between war and environmental damage, supporting the creation of an international register for future reparations.
this situation underlines the urgent need to strengthen the international legal framework for protecting the environment during conflicts and to more effectively address the consequences for aggressors.
war can have long-lasting environmental effects that extend far beyond the duration of the conflict.
armed conflicts have environmental effects, but is that really the worst part of them?
the worst thing we can do is play our defense against the inevitable conflict, continue to live in a world of peace-time illusions and look at everything from the perspective of climate policy.
the putin regime doesn't value people or the environment.
one is our commitment to protecting the environment so that our planet can be habitable for our children and grandchildren.
and it will indicate the funds and the opportunities to save the environment.
– before we get to environmental damages this war of aggression has brought about, we need to remind ourselves what exactly led to this war in the first place.
for years on end, the eu’s liberal left-wing elites have appeased putin to pursue lucrative energy deals with russia.
on the other, the ever-creeping ecologist legislation has cut down europe’s energy independence and competitiveness.
berlin’s plans to get rich on russian energy, as the eu’s main energy hub, have backfired.
poland and other countries of the eu’s and nato’s eastern flank have been sounding the alarm since even before putin decided to invade georgia in 2008. instead of promoting fracking imports of energy from places like the us and nuclear energy, europe kept on feeding russia’s growing war machine.
virtue signalling focused on limiting the eu’s carbon footprint might have made some among the eu’s elites feel better but it did nothing for the environment.
i think about ukraine, the middle east, the relations with china, the sahel, but also about climate change, terrorism, the threat of new pandemics or illicit trafficking in the atlantic basin.
among other things, it's a reckless climate policy.
the only thing to consider is whether the programmes that are currently being implemented are concerned with the energy security of europe, the european union, whether they are strengthening our competitiveness and, above all, whether they are serving europeans.
dramatic climate measures will not only keep the union isolated, but will also impose a burden on its citizens that is difficult to accept and lead to job losses.
the findings of cop 28 show that climate diplomacy is actually a mirage of the western liberal elites.
but just to be clear, renewable energy is, yes, but realistically and pragmatically.
numerous examples in the fields of environment, consumer protection and single market, among others, show that the commission’s strategic approach works, but there is no time to be complacent.