a single market that is the backbone of europe's resilience, enabling it to emerge stronger from the covid-19 pandemic and the current energy crisis, helping businesses to diversify their supply chains and to find new solutions and opportunities.
france has been able to guarantee its people and businesses clean and cheap energy for a very long time.
but, at the instigation of the european commission, instead of strengthening its nuclear know-how, it was drawn into energy transition programmes, particularly wind, neglecting research and development in its own area of excellence and sacrificing its energy sovereignty.
the final blow is now being delivered by the european energy market, which links the price of electricity to the price of gas.
and we also need this new pharmaceutical strategy for europe to help make the european union self-sufficient and sustainable in the production of medicines.
finally, let us debate in this parliament a positive and ambitious agenda, one that strengthens ties with this region, not only in terms of shared values, but also as key partners in trade agreements and cooperation for environmental and digital transitions in a fair way.
i give the example of costa rica, a world leader in the fight against climate change, where the ambitious policies of decarbonisation and biodiversity protection already in place can be strengthened in the european union and vice versa.
we can't let this opportunity go to waste.
no more vulnerable family should have their energy contracts cut because they can't pay.
madam president, president of the european council, vice-president of the commission, the european council stressed the importance, in the current world context, of an ambitious european industrial policy to adapt the european economy to the ecological and digital transitions and to reduce strategic dependencies.
at the end of last year, portugal, spain and france jointly committed themselves to a programme aimed at the full integration of these three countries into the internal energy market.
it is indeed an important instrument for the green transition, for building energy autonomy, for building the energy union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has an ambition: to re-industrialize europe so that it can produce what it needs and to implement the ecological transition.
but i ask myself this simple question: how can we re-industrialize our continent without protectionism and without price controls on the most essential commodity for industry, namely energy?
while the commission is swearing by the internal market, our direct competitors, led by the united states, are taking advantage of our inability to regulate energy prices to attract our industries, which are struggling with electricity prices, to their territory.
so yes, we need to put an industrial strategy in place in europe, but for that we must move beyond the logic of the market to turn to strategic production, starting with energy.
hungary is particularly affected by the law because it has invested heavily in the sustainability industry.
energy costs are higher than competitors because of the war and sanctions.
the commission should propose measures to protect industry and improve the attractiveness of our investment environment.
the focus on digitisation and green energy has been well presented.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission and president von der leyen are announcing an industrial plan for the green deal and for the transition to zero emissions, avoiding relocations.
the plan, however, focuses on increasing state aid to energy-intensive industries.
it is a tragic reality, because in the last ten years all governments have decreed the possibility of producing by polluting and operating even in the shelter of the judiciary, while a first instance judgment already identifies precise responsibilities in the "environmental sale" process.
we need competitive and equal investment, bold investment in all the world's economic centres, to be able to stop climate change together and to organise economic reconstruction that is socially and environmentally responsible.
action must be taken at many levels, for example through a significantly more integrated energy policy, by removing administrative barriers and speeding up the granting of permits to create new industries and thus attract investment, and also by increasing aid of various types to the most strategic sectors.
businesses and people have been struggling since the invasion of ukraine and the energy crisis.
mr president, commissioner, european industry has been hit hard by the energy price crisis.
i hope that in future there will be a different approach, not only to when and how to mobilise financial support, but also to what measures to take in terms of reducing bureaucratic burdens, the functioning of the judiciary, the creation of all the conditions favourable to industry, such as a strong science and innovation ecosystem, because only then will we have real economic growth, wealth creation and more quality jobs.
this situation reflects the profoundly asymmetrical impact of the european union's common and neoliberal policies on the states and confirms the need to recover national sovereignty in areas such as industry, agriculture, fisheries, trade and energy.
brazil needs an agenda that expands rights, that shares wealth, that builds popular democracy and that fights the climate emergency.
this means investing in key sectors of the future that will enable us to accelerate the inclusive digital and climate transition, raise the level of education and innovation, expand excellence in transport or health, in the acceding countries but also at the global level.
it is an opportunity to generate greater trust and confidence in our partners, leading to more sustainable, stable and long-term investments.
the global gateway is thus an opportunity for us to share political, social, environmental priorities, values such as democracy, transparency, accountability, social rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the february european council will discuss how we can have serious, supportive and responsible policies in the european union on migration and asylum seekers in a sustained and sustainable way.
mr president, the european year of skills aims to empower workers with the necessary skills and to ensure that no one is left behind in the environmental and digital transition.
it has served to divert funds from the recovery and resilience fund to objectives opposite to those that comprised the recovery and resilience fund and, coupled with the laundering of nuclear energy and natural gas, now sold as green energy, will serve to end the little environmental decency that still existed in the use of these crisis response funds.
they grow in proportion to the hypocrisy of the commission's promises and commitments on a green and just energy transition.
of course, we need to tackle energy poverty.
repowereu is the union's answer to energy for citizens and businesses.
it must be a key instrument for building european energy autonomy and promoting and consolidating the internal energy market by supporting coordinated planning and financing of cross-border infrastructure and projects, supporting projects and reforms in energy markets, and removing fossil fuels and replacing them with renewable and green energy.
the transport sector accounts for 25% of total carbon emissions in europe and cars and vans, together with heavy duty vehicles, are responsible for over 70% of these emissions.
the link between the environment and our health is also all too obvious: a quarter of deaths worldwide are caused by environmental problems, 10% of cancers in europe are caused by air pollution, and for every degree of increase in average temperature, there is a 2% increased risk for cardiovascular accidents.
over the last year and a half, this parliament has worked tirelessly to produce a climate legislative package that is fair, ambitious and forward-looking.
this measure will facilitate market developments in increasing the supply of sustainable options, reducing prices, technological development and the rapid creation of a second and third hand market.
it is time for the european union to take responsibility for its emissions and to take global leadership in the fight against climate change.
and this is legislation that is compliant with the paris agreement and the climate act and has unparalleled positive repercussions for our planet and everyone who lives on it.
– i would like to ask the colleague if you have gone through the proposal, because what we negotiated, and before you state that you voted against, is tailpipe zero emissions by 2035. this provides technological neutrality at tailpipe and provides the chance not only to have zero-emission vehicles that are electric, but with other technologies that can arise.
and in this regard, we have that 10% of cancers are caused by air pollution.
we also have that these emissions, co2 emissions are one of the main causes for air pollution.
so reducing those emissions, these will have important gains for the environment and health.
the european commission's digital strategy, in particular, aims to make the digital transformation work for people and businesses while helping to achieve its target of a climate neutral europe by 2050. the strategy sets a target of 80% of the population having basic digital skills and 20 million ict specialists by 2030. in achieving this target, we need to tackle the gender digital gap as we know that only 19% of ict specialists are women.
examples of projects are training programmes in digital and sustainable entrepreneurship, competencies for girls and the european researchers’ night and researchers at schools which want to gauge the interest of girls and women in research careers.
last year: climate change and gender equality.
the green deal industrial plan, presented by the european commission, aims to achieve a rapid transition to climate neutrality for industry.
this plan aims to meet the eu's climate objectives, namely climate neutrality by 2050, by encouraging european production capacity for net-zero emissions technologies and products.
inflation has fallen slightly, but mainly as a result of lower energy prices.
this is an urgent need, of course, in the fight against climate change.
it was the european central bank that characterized the inflation we are experiencing as being mainly due to energy prices, food prices and economic bottlenecks resulting from the recovery from the post-pandemic crisis.
and it is no coincidence that after several increases in interest rates, the main effect of reducing inflation that we are seeing is coming from energy prices.
in fact, by showing what the right policy would be: to limit the absolutely extraordinary and opportunistic profits of the energy companies and other companies that are profiting from the crisis, protecting the economy and protecting the people.
does the commission see that subsidising fertilisers and companies like yara is destroying the soil and undermining climate objectives?
strategic autonomy for the european agricultural sector therefore means less dependence on external inputs, with increased fertiliser production in europe and based on the use of renewable energy and the recycling of nutrients.
circularity should be promoted, either by reducing nutrient losses and more efficient application systems that reduce the need for fertilisers, or by recovering nutrients from various organic waste streams for reuse in agricultural production.
we must be able to rethink our production systems and move on several fronts towards more sustainable food systems that are in harmony with the environment and the health of our citizens.
without livestock farming, without organic fertilisers, neither sustainable nor ecological farming is possible, much less food security.
mr president, the small farmers in portugal, those who are still resisting, are feeling the consequences of the foreign policy promoted by the european union under the pretext of war and sanctions, making clear the dependence on foreign trade in energy or chemical compounds and also the impositions of a cap that disregards small and medium-sized agriculture, which is based on the promotion of agribusiness, intensive and superintensive agriculture, more dependent on the massive use of water, fertilisers, plant protection products, depleting the soils.
this resolution continues to defend everything that has brought us here, from gmos to new technologies, everything that justifies intensive production under the pretext of exploiting its surpluses, its polluting products, to create new markets or to weaken environmental policies.
madam president, we have no doubt about the potential that building renovation in the member states of the european union can have in terms of saving and reducing energy consumption, promoting improved air quality, reducing emissions, reducing costs and increasing the resilience of energy systems.
we advocate that priority should be given to the most vulnerable consumers and lower income households in all energy efficiency and building renovation initiatives.
what we do not accept is that the necessary renovation of buildings for energy efficiency purposes is another reason for increased speculation in house prices or another pretext for the multinational energy companies to continue to show outrageous profits, while most people cannot keep their homes warm in winter or cool in summer.
will it, as has been announced, oppose the courageous and responsible decision of the indian ocean tuna commission to ban floating dcps for 72 days a year, against sustainable fishing and the maintenance of the great ecological balances of the indian ocean, against the small-scale fishermen of réunion?
only then will we achieve sustainable development goal 6. tackling climate change depends on how we tackle and respect this resource that is so essential to our lives, our wellbeing and the environment.
mr president, i live in a country rich in biodiversity, which is being greedily looked at by the electricity companies.
renewable energy, such as wind power, is necessary, but we must take into account its impact: the protected natural reserves, the consultation of the affected populations, the socioeconomic impact, as is the case on the land and sea of galicia.
there are also many platforms of affected citizens and environmental groups fighting in defense of the land and denouncing: please don't make us an energy colony.
that is why we say yes to renewable energy, but with regard to people and their biodiversity.
that is why we are in favour of a ban on the establishment of marine energy parks or industrial complexes on the galician coast and in north-western cantabria.
mr president, we have long been denouncing the brutal speculation promoted by the big economic groups, which has flourished in the shadow of the pandemic and has grown immensely under the pretext of war and sanctions: in energy, banking, armaments, large-scale distribution.
it is said that we are now going to introduce social and environmental objectives into the european semester.
while rejecting a permanent european investment instrument and calling for immediate budgetary consolidation, the european commission is calling for more investment in the energy transition.
we have commitments to europeans: to make the ecological and digital transitions, to implement the european pillar of social rights and the port commitment.
will we lead together the reinvention of the multilateral institutions, mr borrell, so that we can fight globally the health, the financial and the climate challenges?
if we look at what we have done in recent years, we have very often located our production facilities outside europe, our energy supplies outside europe.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and it is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the environment.
a lot has happened, however, it's true, like the pandemic and the crisis that it caused, the war on our borders, which certainly consumed a lot of our energy.
biological alternatives to pesticides are a safe solution for the protection and sustainability of the ecosystem.
honourable members, animal welfare is a cornerstone of sustainable and resilient food production.
taking steps to protect the environment is, of course, the right course.
to protect the environment while enhancing competitiveness, we need to work with our industry.
we need to have stable supply chains for the climate and digital transitions.
while smilingly taking pictures of your propaganda, you remain unmoved by the deterioration of the social and economic conditions of the workers and peoples, which is the result of your political choices - for example, in energy or in raising interest rates - and you favour an increasingly unequal distribution of wealth and the obscene increase in the profits of the big economic groups.
not a word from you about the urgently needed increase in wages and pensions, the control of prices of essential goods, the fixing of maximum energy prices and the end of the marginalist rule or the full taxation of excessive profits.
thirdly, we must also say that the emissions of desflurane are very limited, since they occur in places where they are strictly necessary and where technologies exist which can recapture desflurane and prevent its release into the atmosphere.
and the shift to a lifestyle without animal consumption is not only possible but desirable to meet climate commitments, regenerate biodiversity, improve human health and protect the lives of billions of animals.
at the same time, we know that the success of these measures depends on their sustainability, and that is why we have introduced a progressive approach, particularly for small and mediumsized enterprises.
mr president, commissioner, the creation of the social climate fund, the establishment of the carbon border adjustment mechanism (cbam) and the expansion of the emissions trading system (ets) are three key measures for an effective, sustainable, socially just and inclusive climate transition.
we could not pass an ambitious plan like the objective 55 package without a social climate fund.
they can't be the most vulnerable paying for the climate transition.
the cbam will ensure fair competition rules for the european carbon market.
the derogations introduced for travel to and from the outermost regions protect these territories and people from price increases, while not placing an excessive burden on businesses in the climate transition and ensuring the time needed for their full adaptation.
reckless government spending, covid-19, the russian invasion of ukraine, and ill-advised climate policies have gotten us into trouble.
but we do have to remain partners on some issues where global challenges can only be tackled together, certainly in the area of climate change, or by joining forces to end the barbaric invasion of ukraine.
i think we're also clear on one thing: energy storage is not going to solve our massive future energy problem.
the cost efficiency of these energy storage systems, it's not exactly exhilarating, as i think we all know.
because the co2 madness and the eu commission's wit of the last few years have robbed us of affordable energy, ladies and gentlemen!
and these renewable energies will never be able to replace the old energies.
mr president, the various recommendations that the commission is making to the member states on energy storage in the context of the announced reform of the energy market are nothing new.
it is clear that the european union, both in the light of the content of the proposals submitted and in accordance with its long-standing policy, is seeking to safeguard the interests of the large private economic groups in the energy sector and to maintain a market which is clearly contaminated by its monopolistic characteristics, which are aggravated by oligopolistic practices.
we believe that measures are needed for energy storage and that technological development will be key to its efficiency.
but what the people need at the same time is a break with the energy policy of the european union.
that states recover public ownership and strategic control over the main energy companies, the restoration of quality public energy services and the national and democratic planning of the development of the energy system based on scientific knowledge, technological progress and environmental sustainability, including the production, supply and transport of different forms of energy.
as reality shows, energy - because it is a public good - must not be dependent on market contingencies that threaten it.
recently we have witnessed several protests and a climate of violence with very dire consequences.
proof that the qfp is not prepared to respond to unforeseen... the resources in the mff are insufficient to finance important emerging priorities and already in 2004: strategic autonomy and the sovereignty fund, energy autonomy, the eastern partnership, ukraine, moldova, enlargement to the east and the balkans do not fit in this budget.
and finally, it does absolutely nothing - except a little statement of intent - about the environmental consequences of this absurd industry.
it is also urgent that the commission clarifies one of the greatest global health threats to date: antimicrobial resistance, the greatest threat we are facing alongside climate change.
governments that often use prr funds for climate action propaganda and even those funds are not able to properly harness and enforce.
the far right, today, has told us that our environmental policy is an ideology or a religion.
no one can measure the science and the facts, almost half the world's population lives in regions that are highly vulnerable to climate change.
the road ahead is a tough one because last year was the most emission-intensive, but we can get there with a significant reduction in global warming within 20 years.
mr president, commissioner, in 2019 our parliament made europe the first continent to declare a climate emergency.
as a caribbean, i see the effects of climate change every day, and it is affecting african, caribbean and pacific countries even more.
today, more than half the world's population is vulnerable to climate change.
our objective of limiting global warming requires a transversal approach, particularly through sustainable development on a global scale.
mr president, the commissioner has warned that we are not doing enough, and i clearly agree, but also because we fundamentally ignore the impact of the livestock and dairy industries, which have a high impact, not only on greenhouse gas emissions, and i am talking about methane and co2, but also on the devastation of soils and the destruction of aquatic resources.
and so there really has to be coherence, and the report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change shows us that coherence by presenting us with some solutions.
they need a european legal framework which is conducive to their economic, social and even environmental development.
we will only be truly autonomous in the areas of security, energy and digitalisation if we are more european.
prr has been instrumental in making european economies and societies more sustainable, resilient and better prepared for the challenges and opportunities of the green and digital transitions.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am a conservative and i can say that anyone who commits violence against women is the worst monster and the worst waste of this society.
mr president, 70% of transport emissions come from our roads.
in early 2023, as shadow rapporteur, i defended the proposal to reduce co2 emissions to the atmosphere of light vehicles from 2035. and today i would like to be here to support a more ambitious euro 7 proposal, because air pollution is a problem that cannot be ignored because of the serious consequences for the wellbeing, health and quality of life of europeans.
the benefits of the commission proposal: for every euro invested there would be a return of 5 € on healthcare and environmental protection.
the right approach to this report is detrimental to our ability to meet the current challenges, both environmental and public health, and the fight against air pollution, for the protection of the environment and for the health and wellbeing of those we represent is an action that requires commitment and above all courage.
– geopolitical turmoil, chief amongst it the russian war of aggression against ukraine and its global repercussions, is both the cause and the consequences of an environment in which democracies are openly challenged.
the proposed rules would require all trucks to be unloaded and reload at the border, which neither benefits the environment nor improves trade.
to repay nextgenerationeu, there is an interinstitutional commitment to mobilise new own resources, with a well-defined timetable, also as instruments for european climate and fiscal justice policies.
madam president, the number of deaths due to climate change or serious damage to property and nature is increasing every year.
we have successively broken the record for the hottest year since records were set and greenhouse gas emissions have already raised global temperatures by about a degree.
the arctic, a key indicator of our climate, may no longer have ice in the summers by the end of the 2030s.
the european union's commitment to climate is undeniable, but other countries and geographies must do their part.
but we also need conditions for the development and implementation of renewable energy, the global goal of which must be achieved in dubai, but also for clean technologies that are emerging in europe and which we have a duty to support.
the fight against climate change goes through this, not through the destruction of works of art or media figures without any consequence.
what is being asked is very clear: that we continue to lead the way in ambition and in the implementation of a new, more sustainable, healthier economic model, while demanding that other countries accelerate the pace.
with the record of extreme events in recent years, the european union must act to prevent risks to human health and the environment.
it is an opportunity to strengthen climate action promoting health and sustainable food systems.
according to the lancet countdown report, the climate emergency will have devastating consequences for the health of the population.
environmental priorities for a healthy and prosperous future were therefore set, including the importance of leading by example and investing in the transition from zero-carbon systems.
the european union has been working to build a sustainable future while protecting global health.
2024 will be a pivotal year for the european union as an agent of the climate transition.
it is urgent to ensure a sustainable multi-sectoral transition, protecting the health of the planet and people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this initiative which we are discussing today is a crucial step in our ongoing fight against climate change.
the need for a union certification framework for carbon removal is in line with the objectives of the paris agreement and our commitment to achieve collective climate neutrality by 2050. in fact, with the speed at which we are reducing emissions, without a significant contribution from carbon removal neither will europe achieve climate neutrality by 2050, nor will the planet be able to achieve the goals of the paris agreement.
the international panel on climate change has made it clear that drastic and immediate reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are essential.
however, to effectively limit global warming to 1.5 or 2 degrees, a significant increase in carbon removal activities is needed and this is particularly true for sectors such as agriculture, aviation, shipping and industrial processes where the european union needs to achieve significant levels of carbon removal.
and that is how we sought to provide credibility, predictability, trust and effective market conditions for both carbon sequestration techniques in agricultural and forestry practice, and the development and implementation of innovative methods such as bioenergy with carbon capture and storage or direct carbon capture from the air and corresponding storage.
the path to climate neutrality is not a single solution, whether it be reduction or specific removal technology.
the proposal for a regulation aims to develop a voluntary union certification framework for carbon removal, encouraging the adoption of high-quality carbon removal activities while respecting biodiversity and zero pollution targets.
this framework will not only support the development of carbon removal activities in the union but also ensure that they result in a net carbon removal benefit, avoiding greenwashing.
it is designed to encourage carbon removal activities that generate benefits for biodiversity, thereby promoting the nature restoration objectives set out in union legislation.
to support operators willing to increase carbon removal sustainably, the framework will consider the various types of carbon removal activity and their specificities and related environmental impacts, but stability and persistence of carbon storage are paramount.
the validity of certified carbon removals will therefore also depend on the expected storage duration and the associated reversal risks.
finally, sustainability is at the heart of the picture.
carbon removal activities should have a neutral impact or generate benefits for sustainability objectives, including climate change mitigation and adaptation, the protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems, the sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources, the transition to a circular economy and pollution prevention and control.
in conclusion, the proposed union certification framework for carbon removal is a vision for a more sustainable future, balancing the urgent need to increase carbon removal with the need to maintain environmental integrity and promote sustainability.
and while there are some requests that, for political reasons, cannot be fully met, i believe this is a first step and this is the first legislation in the world for carbon credits certification, which i believe will give momentum and also give integrity to the carbon credits market.
madam president, the unsustainable use of pesticides is the cause of serious environmental, public health and food safety problems.
we support the need to reconcile production activities with environmental quality and the socioeconomic enhancement of small and mediumsized farmers.
the intensive and superintensive model of monoculture promoted by the european union is contrary to these principles, exacerbating environmental and socioeconomic problems and highlighting the need for another development model based on the enhancement of national production and food sovereignty.
the promotion of greener and more sustainable practices must be supported so that small and medium-sized farming does not disappear, by promoting ancestral practices and traditional and indigenous species and promoting rural land use, while also contributing to the defence of more and better public services in the vicinity.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in carbon dioxide emissions is a threat to our environment, it is a threat to the good quality of the air we breathe, it is a threat to our health.
and heavy-duty vehicles account for more than a quarter of the greenhouse gas emissions from the road transport sector in the european union.
this is why this review is essential for innovative solutions that reduce threats to the heavy-duty vehicle sector in order to ensure a cleaner and more sustainable future for europeans.
at the beginning of 2023 we were progressive, we passed the regulation that from 2035 onwards all new cars in the european union will be sold with zero emissions, and during this plenary session the progressive majority in this house was able to make history by passing the regulation that provides for a 90% reduction in emissions by 2040 for heavy vehicles.
because the goal is ambitious, but we won't overcome the climate emergency without ambition.
in the european union, half a kilogram of waste is generated on average per person per day.
these packaging are often bulky and unsustainable and have caused a serious impact on our environment.
we must therefore find solutions that are innovative and reusable, that minimize the environmental impact of our consumer habits, such as creating a framework for the recovery of reused packaging, and also invest in materials that are alternative but also more sustainable than the use of plastic, because only with the cooperation of all, consumers, industry, member states and their representatives, will we achieve a real paradigm shift.
by reducing the use of packaging, especially plastic, we are contributing to a more sustainable, healthier environment.
has an internal market interest in struggling against the climate change to keep the biodiversity alive?
the report on the revision of the eu treaties suggests that the negotiations on environmental and biodiversity issues and climate change should be transferred to the exclusive competence of the eu.
in addition, the existing shared competence should be further developed in the fields of energy, external affairs, external security and defence, foreign policy and cross-border infrastructure.
the demands of citizens at the conference on the future of europe were clear the eu must become more social, climate-friendly and inclusive!
the report sets out key priorities for the greens/efa group, such as the climate neutrality clause for each new measure, the inclusion of environmental crime and gender-based violence in the eu criminal register and strengthening the rule of law, fundamental rights, values and transparency.
we have managed to allocate more resources for young farmers, more resources to better protect our borders, to protect our immediate neighbourhood, to protect the environment.
and we should make sure that we provide sustainable funding for ukraine up to 2027. this is why we, as a parliament, believe that the revision of the multiannual financial framework is so much needed.
research on persistent covid, young farmers, the environment and climate action programme (life), culture through creative europe, the fight against gender-based violence and, of course, our erasmus students will also be able to count on this extra funding.
it is a vision of a union between 27 member states in specific and essential areas, for example, to decarbonize the economy, to ensure sustainable employment for decades to come, to combat phenomena outside our borders, to support those most in need, particularly in gaza.
we have a reduced budget, a budget made at the expense of reducing the burden with the recovery and resilience fund in 2023, the nextgenerationeu, and with upgrades to the iter energy programme and the frontex mechanism.
its implementation is essential to promote an environment where every woman lives without fear and with full respect for her rights.
madam president, the left group is proposing this debate in parliament, in parliament's plenary session, because the revision of the rules of economic governance is a matter which will have a decisive impact on the future not only of economic policies but also, by extension, on the response of social policies, environmental and energy transition policies, social policies, poverty alleviation, public services, health and education.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, sellafield is a nuclear waste and storage site on the west coast of england, less than 100 miles from the east coast of ireland.
there is an agreement between the eu and the uk post-brexit on nuclear energy, and i would call on you, commissioner, to use your office to raise these very serious findings of this investigation with your uk counterparts.
this is done through evidence-based health policies to ensure a healthy and sustainable future for europeans.
it also enables employers to develop in a more serene business environment.
of course, dissatisfied with the waste you are making of venezuela's reserves, you are no longer satisfied with them and you want to waste those of essequibo as well.
and the council will have to assess whether it wants to go back to the time when austerity policy produced negative results at all levels, including on the sustainability of public accounts, and whether it wants to go back to the time when the policies of democratically elected governments were suppressed, which we had during the troika memoranda, giving unprecedented powers discretionary powers and absolute powers to a european commission that learned nothing from the recent crises.
it is the principle of equality between states that is at stake, but also the ability of states to respond to the challenges that the european union itself poses to us: the energy transition and the fight against climate change and a social europe.
mr president, commissioner, council, dear colleagues, how much does the climate emergency cost?
i congratulate the focus of this cop on finally having a day dedicated to health and its effects on climate change.
the cop final agreement reinforces this by stressing the need to improve the resilience of health systems and reduce the impact of the climate emergency on health, particularly in the most vulnerable communities.
but committing to the global energy transition away from fossil fuels is a first step in the right direction, but it's not enough.
in the european union, we need to lead by example, with ambitious goals and targets in all sectors, but also ensuring that we leave no one behind, because only then will we ensure a healthy and sustainable future for all.