in the face of the energy crisis, instead of pooling our efforts and creating a european sovereign fund which would give us greater strategic autonomy and protect all our citizens, some are arguing only in favour of national aid.
it is doing all this at a time when war and sanctions have sent energy prices soaring, inflation soaring at an inhumane rate and the machinations of our competitors - see the us green protectionist policy - are already weakening europe's competitiveness.
for example, with the rise of big tech, we're deepening our digital single market, since the pandemic, our health union, and now our energy and our defense union are top of mind.
we also face a culture - or not - of excessive waste generation and accumulation that pollutes and burdens our planet.
we even trade in waste, so we are talking about the internal market for waste shipments.
often, there is a great deal of money involved in waste, especially if it is disposed of improperly and illegally.
i therefore believe that this area of trade and shipment of waste out of the place of origin should be regulated in depth and that its implementation should be monitored correctly and effectively.
but we can no longer allow waste to be a source of quick profit and wealth at the expense of polluting our planet.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the waste shipment regulation is important legislation to protect both the environment and human health, but at the same time it has enormous potential to accelerate the union's transition to the circular economy.
the transport of waste is an activity which requires clear rules and adequate controls.
we remember well how china's decision to no longer accept plastic waste has had a strong impact on our ability to manage it properly.
instead, the aim is to create a steering wheel both for designing more sustainable products and for further developing our recycling capacity.
the export of our waste to the third world can no longer be the solution, and it must not be, but we must move towards the circular economy without delay and this regulation is a decisive step forward.
mr president, commissioner, as you are well aware, illegal shipments of waste have reached alarming levels within the european union and are having serious and long-term consequences for public health and the environment.
this situation needs to be corrected urgently and i hereby express my firm support for the ambitious agreement reached in the envi committee on the revision of the legislation on waste shipments, which includes clear and strict rules to combat illegal waste traffic.
strengthening cooperation between member states, tightening the sanctions regime to deter criminal activities in this area and finally draw attention to the urgent need to create the european action plan to combat illegal shipments of waste, in order to ensure our success in the fight against this phenomenon.
similar funds were created for those who suffer from pollution of different companies under the principle that polluters pay.
the price of this energy is felt in all the products and services we need.
the current russian-induced crisis has led to far too high energy prices, and hard-working people have become unable to afford a decent life.
but we have to recognize that the energy market, as it is regulated at the moment, allows a very large margin for speculation.
market regulation needs to be reviewed and measures to keep the price of energy affordable for all citizens must be binding on all eu countries.
we must secure the supply of energy and raw materials, favouring domestic production and supplies from friendly countries, and make the green transition more economically and socially sustainable.
we must continue to work, for example, for a greener europe, which confirms its global leadership in the ecological transition, climate neutrality by 2050 and a net emission reduction of at least 55% by 2030. we're not stopping, we're not going backwards.
i am thinking in particular of the directives on energy efficiency and renewable energy, which are essential instruments for getting rid of russian gas and lowering energy prices and on which the presidency will have to maintain a high level of ambition.
madam president, dear vice-president, dear prime minister, obviously your presidency must continue to develop policies relating to the priorities of our societies, such as the fight against inflation or climate change.
with political will, we have moved towards the health union and the energy union.
dear president, dear vice president, dear prime minister, have a safe, healthy and sustainable year.
madam president, dear prime minister, many priorities: ukraine, energy, migration, economy.
it is ambitious because, in response to and beyond the war in our immediate neighbourhood, it is boldly talking about longer-term vision, such as the need to invest in innovation, climate policy, and strengthening the european economy and competitiveness.
this is why security, which is both internal and external, including food and energy security, and the eu's 30-year internal market, where we can freely do business, shop and travel, need to be renewed.
the causes are not just increased demand for covid-19 waves, influenza viruses and respiratory infections, but also production bottlenecks related to higher energy costs, more expensive raw materials and supply chain difficulties.
the people in a state of alert must oppose imperialist plans and wars, co-operation in the aegean and the seizure of energy resources by monopolies.
a last word, the defence of the union is a necessary condition to achieve our social, environmental and economic goals.
so my main conclusion would be that in the ever-challenging global environment, including a war on our continent, our answer should be ‘more europe’.
technologically, renewable energy sources are more competitive than fossil fuels and co-legislators have taken the necessary steps to ensure that we reach the targets of 55% by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050. until now, we may have lacked a thorough reflection on the industrial side of this transition, because this energy and climate transition will only be successful if it translates into a strong, competitive and job-creating european industry.
we must jointly address the major risk of deindustrialisation we face, both by addressing the issue of energy costs, which is a driver, and by responding to the important support package that several of our partners have recently put in place, which is acting as a driver.
this debate has confirmed that we face complex challenges, in particular on the issues of high energy prices.
i think that we can all agree that eu industry needs affordable, safe and sustainable energy in order to remain globally competitive.
at the same time, this debate has shown that europe needs to boost public and private investment, to accelerate the energy transition and to promote clean-tech industry in europe.
this is particularly important in the context of the need to make europe independent of energy supplies such as coal and gas from russia as soon as possible, but also to prevent new dependencies from being created with other parts of the world.
in this respect, mention should be made of the import of components necessary for the production of, inter alia, photovoltaic panels or parts needed for the development of wind energy.
the further development of european industry and the improvement of its competitiveness will require the production of large quantities of readily available energy and raw materials.
at present, one of the main objectives of the union's energy policy is to become independent from russian gas, oil and coal supplies.
for this reason, the union should diversify its sources of supply, but also focus on extracting and producing energy from the sources it has at its disposal, including nuclear energy, which guarantees affordable and stable electricity supplies.
the role of coal and gas and the own resources of the member states will also be crucial during the transition period and the energy crisis.
in a shock of reality, eu forums are turning their attention from the chimera of the 'green transition' to the major challenges of european competitiveness, in a global environment marked by a multitude of crises, but also by protectionist measures by the us and china.
the u.s. is doing what it needs to do to secure its industrial production base in the new geopolitical, technological and environmental context.
brussels, on the other hand, is flying grandiose plans about 'zero pollution', with no response to our near-total dependence on imports of critical raw materials and a lack of factories for the industries of the future or a highly skilled workforce.
but this way of surviving in perfect harmony with the environment is becoming increasingly complicated.
the combination of policies in energy, economic support and monetary policy is beginning to show signs of being able to contain the inflationary peak and to crush growth prospects less.
this deal won’t benefit the environment.
it won’t help ireland reach our climate goals.
as shareholders on behalf of the irish people, i am calling on the irish government to abandon this deal, which flies in the face of real and meaningful climate action.
if the irish government fails on this, they fail rural ireland, they fail forestry and will fail biodiversity.
this file imposes a series of restrictions on political parties, especially with regard to electoral processes, in order to reduce the 'popularisation' of society to which the online environment has contributed significantly.
we would like to stress that in earthquake-prone countries such as greece or italy, governments, on the basis of the european union's harmful green strategy, are giving priority to energy-efficient buildings because it is profitable for the construction and other groups, rather than ensuring the static adequacy of buildings with the necessary seismic shielding.
the increase in energy prices has this year led to higher prices for food, supplies and products, with very negative consequences for households and businesses.
but, as with the pandemic, we've put in place a contingency plan, in this case to lower energy costs, reduce the economic impact of war and continue to move forward on the green transition.
to this end, member states will have at their disposal existing appropriations under the recovery and resilience facility, and an additional eur 20 billion to propose measures to combat energy poverty, accelerate the deployment of renewable energy, reduce energy consumption, increase energy efficiency and expand storage capacities.
because war cannot divert us from our climate goals.
we remain committed to being a climate neutral continent by 2050. and to that end we have introduced five conditions for granting this derogation.
compensatory measures for extra carbon emissions must be proposed and neither the 2030 nor the 2050 targets can be jeopardised.
– madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, we have all seen over the course of the last year, since the illegitimate and illegal invasion by russian armed forces into ukraine, we have all seen how important energy independence is.
we have seen that dictatorships, that autocrat leaders are not hesitating to use energy as a tool or political weapon against the people of ukraine and also against the citizens of the european union.
we are going to act together, united as the european union, to reduce our energy dependency on russia, to import no more gas, no more coal, and no more oil from russia.
never again in the future should we depend on one single country which supplies energy to us, on one single route of transport or on one single energy source.
we should we should diversify our energy consumption.
and we should produce as much energy as possible within the european union because we have enough wind, we have enough solar, we have enough water for hydro energy.
we have fundamentally improved and amended the proposal of the european commission so that this fund now can enter into force in a way in which it helps the people, enterprises and regions of europe, with eur 20 billion in grants which will help us to improve our infrastructure, connect ourselves better, which means we can move energy from where we have it to where we need it, reduce our dependency on russia and become more energy efficient.
because the more energy efficient we are, the less energy we need to consume in order to reach our objectives, and the less energy we consume, the smaller the bill for the citizens and for enterprises.
we have seen countries that wanted to reduce their energy dependency on russia last year, but they could not do it so soon.
we are going to be together to reduce our energy dependency, and we are going to implement this programme in a way which helps people on the ground, in the regions.
to conclude, i would like to thank my two co-rapporteurs, eider gardiazabal rubial and dragoş pîslaru for an excellent cooperation, but also the rapporteurs of the other sectorial committees, because it was a joint effort: peter liese on behalf of the environment committee; dan nica on behalf of the industry research committee; peter jahr from the agriculture committee and pascal arimont from the regional policy committee.
will we have enough energy storage at eu level?
will we be able to produce our own energy?
citizens had a tough year, barely managing to buy food and basic goods with the increased prices, and now they have to struggle with high energy bills.
we can’t let our entrepreneurs, our small businesses alone, we need sustainable solutions now, not later.
ask your government what energy measures they plan to include in the recovery plans, and make sure you will find how to become more energy efficient, how to diminish your bills.
we do not need it because we are right now capable of increased storage, of producing our own energy, but not at any cost.
we must use the full force of our natural resources: wind, water, sun to diversify our energy system because we need a clean net zero continent for our citizens, especially for our next generations.
let’s help the street corner shops to reduce their energy bills.
let’s support our smes to work in energy efficient offices.
i hope to find in the updated plans innovative, disruptive and concrete measures for europe’s energy system.
as benjamin franklin used to say, energy and persistence conquer all things.
in view of the pressing consequences of the current energy crisis, the repowereu chapters will be a key tool, allowing member states to devise very concrete and much needed reforms and investments.
these measures will be vital to ensure the long-term security, sustainability and resilience of the eu energy system.
in a general climate of growing competition at the global scale, the repowereu can also make an important contribution to our transition towards a net-zero eu industry and support an even faster transition to climate neutrality.
eur 20 billion in fresh money coming from the european union to the people of europe so that people can easier face the difficulties that we all encounter nowadays: high energy bills; energy security.
we are going to spend these european funds well, to make sure that we reduce our dependency on russian energy, to make sure that we become more energy efficient, to make sure that we connect ourselves better so that we can use primarily the energy that we have here in the european union.
never again, in the future, should we become dependent on one country, one source of energy, one route of transport, particularly when this implies regimes, countries that we cannot trust.
vulnerable people across europe need support for energy renovation, new electricity and heat installations to pay lower bills, solar panels, green energy that does not lead to dependence on expensive energy.
guys, there's no time to waste!
romania has at least eur 1,4 billion available to make its households and smes more energy efficient.
let's bring green energy into our homes!
the russians planned to blackmail moldova through energy prices, so that people could not, had to go out on the streets, then to kidnap politicians by mercenaries, to establish a puppet regime in chisinau.
and it is the same mistake that germany and other countries have made in the energy sector, where they have shut down clean nuclear power and now they are forced to evict people from villages to dig up coal that they need to produce electricity.
we face some very difficult environmental challenges.
i support the targeted reduction of emissions in the coming years.
transport is a major source of environmental pollution and a negative contributor to climate change.
then we'll be close to zero in our emissions.
i don't think any of you can tell me what the carbon footprint is, what the environmental damage is, that it costs to build an electric car?
mr president, we all recognise that the transformation of our economy to a sustainable form is imperative.
reducing emissions is our self-evident objective, but the european transformation must be carried out with sensitivity, especially in view of the sustainability of our jobs and the development of new technologies.
it is good that we set ambitious goals for the protection of our environment.
it is therefore important to give a chance to all technologies, and in the automotive industry this applies not only to electric, hydrogen or hybrid propulsion, but also to the development of conventional combustion engines and the development of their new fuels that support our climate objectives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the regulation we are about to vote on today is a historic step for sustainable mobility in the eu.
the ambition to achieve zero co2 emissions from new cars and light vehicles sold in the eu by 2035 is an unprecedented challenge.
a challenge which will find a major impetus in the new battery regulation, which i hope will be adopted by june, where we define sustainability criteria for batteries for electric vehicles which are estimated to be the dominant technology on the market.
finally, tomorrow the commission will present the proposal for revising the co2 targets for lorries, which i hope will be adopted by this parliament so that we can reaffirm the union's objective of climate neutrality by 2050.
look, i come from one of the most polluted areas in the world, which is the po valley, and so anything that will help reduce pollution, especially air pollution, i agree with.
i'm a doctor, a physician at the nicolae oblu emergency clinical hospital in iasi, romania, and i treat every day patients affected by pollution, by this disease that is reducing life expectancy and affecting quality of life in all european countries.
in my view, any step taken to reduce pollution is extremely important and i will always support any measure that includes stimulating the production and purchase of electric cars in the member states, which are often inaccessible, rethinking, if you will, the clause on hybrid vehicles, rethinking the secondhand market so that our lives are protected.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, if we are to achieve a real and sustainable energy transition, we must absolutely strengthen both our internal competitiveness and our independence from other states, including china and the united states.
if the greens - who are absent from this house today - supported by the liberals and socialists, continue to waste precious time and money on access to the raw materials they need, then i am absolutely devastated.
those who are now standing up and making excuses to further impede access to critical raw materials are responsible for us missing the train to create the sustainable transition.
and yes, it will also be their responsibility if we miss our shared climate goals.
we must not forget the environmental impact, but let's engage all the policies we have at our disposal.
at the same time, we need we have to use these resources in an efficient and sustainable way, including, of course, recycling and sustainable trade links.
speeding up our road towards electrification and climate neutrality requires both, not either or.
for the socialists, it is a central and geo-strategic issue, as these materials are key to the digital and energy transitions and to industries in those sectors, such as renewable energy technology, electronics, aerospace and defence.
we must also continue to build strategic alliances with like-minded countries to ensure secure and sustainable access to critical raw materials that enable climate neutrality.
according to the world bank and a recent study published by the international energy agency, global demand for critical raw materials will increase by 500% by 2050, which will bring exponential costs of these raw materials' prices and increased risks to supply chains.
moreover, there should also be a cross-cutting component related to ecology, sustainable development and compliance with international commitments on mitigating the impact of climate change.
for the socialists, it is a central and geo-strategic issue, as these materials are key to the digital and energy transitions and to industries in those sectors, such as renewable energy technology, electronics, aerospace and defence.
we must also continue to build strategic alliances with like-minded countries to ensure secure and sustainable access to critical raw materials that enable climate neutrality.
in this context i ask: is the pace of change to which the commission is committing the european union sustainable?
and we never worried about the european fertilizer producers, letting them die, in a non-competitive market, and then giving them the final blow in an energy crisis that we were unable to stop in time.
the first pandemic and the war and energy crisis that followed not only reduced fertilisers but also increased them, in some cases by as much as 150%, thus causing serious difficulties for the entire agri-food chain and a loss of competitiveness vis-à-vis farmers in third countries.
in addition to all this, we in this house are even insisting on further reductions in fertilisers, in order to achieve environmental sustainability objectives, which are acceptable, but in the meantime we are not finding an alternative solution and we are not worried that today's shortage of fertilisers will affect tomorrow's production, with a growing world population and with repercussions on food availability and our food security, unless someone is convinced that the solution is synthetic production or the consumption of insects.
in the face of this emergency, which affects european countries, businesses and households unequally, we need a european response capable of supporting our production system and guiding it towards ever greater sustainability and independence in the most critical productions.
that is why i want to reiterate the call i made to the european commission last week, together with 48 fellow meps, to provide farmers with additional short-term financial support using the cap 2023 emergency reserve and other funds you need to identify as soon as possible, and to address this issue when the eu budget is revised from 2021 to 2027. in the medium and long term, however, we need to establish a clear plan to reduce our dependence on imports and develop fertiliser production in the european union, both by developing projects in countries with natural gas reserves such as romania and by stimulating the production of alternative fertilisers, such as organic, natural and those obtained from renewable energy.
so, commissioner, i want you to know that i am inviting you to iasi, iasi, romania, because i want you to hear directly the grievances of romanian farmers about the subsidy different from other european countries, about the fact that energy prices have risen exponentially, about the fact that the price of fertilisers has taken off like a rocket from the ground.
the union's environmental and social objectives are necessary, but they need to become much more realistic in relation to the global situation.
madam president, commissioner simson, dear colleagues, we are here today to make another step towards a more sustainable and energy efficient way for living.
first, by the facilitation of more targeted financing of investments in the building sector and second, by complementing other eu instruments, supporting, in that sense, vulnerable consumers and fighting energy poverty.
however, allow me to mention that by defining net—zero buildings, phasing out fossil fuel heating system in buildings by 2035 and if not feasible by 2040 at the latest, by ensuring also access to finance at favourable conditions, facilitating the deployment of financial instruments and innovative schemes, such as the european renovation loan or a european guarantee fund for building renovation, by finding a common ground on minimum energy performance standards, and by enhancing infrastructure for sustainable mobility, we finally achieved a compromise.
madam president, fight for the climate and defend the citizens.
buildings are responsible for 40% of energy consumption and it is essential to reduce this figure to save the planet.
i am proud that energy-poor areas and vulnerable neighbourhoods are being taken into account in the focusing of european funds on investment.
the reform of this directive on energy efficiency in buildings is also in line with the new european bauhaus: more energy savings in monthly bills, less pollution, better quality of life and climate comfort in buildings and homes, all of this by focusing efforts on what the poorest have.
the adoption of this directive will contribute to a more climate-friendly and socially fair europe.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, when we talk about energy efficiency in new buildings, we can say that we are moving in a positive direction, we are changing design standards and we can have good energy efficiency.
more than that, we can actually think about a design of what energy independence means for these buildings.
when we talk about energy efficiency in old buildings, i can tell you, from my experience, from my 15 years as mayor in local government, making our buildings energy efficient, we've had positive results, positive results in what it means to reduce bills, positive results in what it means to make the product, which is gigacalories.
and i think this positive theme can lead us in the direction of doing good energy efficiency.
that is why energy efficiency linked to solidarity is needed.
i support the objectives of the new legislation proposed by the european commission, but i do not agree with the timelines for the imposition of minimum energy performance standards.
aid against energy poverty, support for building renovation campaigns and the introduction of energy performance standards are all essential in the european union, with buildings consuming 40% of the eu's energy and almost 75% of the european building stock currently being energy inefficient.
i hope that the negotiations with the council will lead to the adjustment of this legislative reform, which should actually be aimed at supporting citizens and not burdening them further, in an already tense social and energy context.
for many years, young people and scientists have warned that time is running out and that it is time to act before it is too late, to avoid major climate-related tragedies worldwide.
we are at the forefront of the fight against climate change.
we see disasters all around us all the time, caused by climate extremes and the point of no return is too close.
we cannot fall for the populist narrative of conservatives who, in times of crisis, immediately turn against the environmental transition.
there is no pause button in the climate emergency.
time is running out and climate disasters are getting worse: record high summer temperatures, fires burning our forests, record rainfall floods in the shortest of times.
that was for conservatives, we stop acting against climate change to focus on other crises, and we want to succeed, not fail.
but at the same time, we must listen to the cries of european citizens about the price increases in europe after the pandemic and because of the war, which are leading to exorbitant energy bills almost all over europe, and as socialists we will stay close to european citizens, because no one should have to choose between a basic need and another basic need.
we will be using the social climate fund to help those who don't have it to heat their homes, help renovate more efficient homes, and help people buy clean vehicles.
and so let's keep the rate of double intake at which quotas are put into reserve until 2030. this is a natural and necessary step for the mechanism to achieve the climate targets we have agreed to achieve by 2030. this will give us a stronger system for trading emissions allowances that is robust and resilient.
our direction is one of energy independence, through renewable energy, and this will remain our priority.
a strong europe, an independent europe, an environmental europe and a competitive europe.
i want to emphasize again that agriculture and forestry are the only sectors that not only generate emissions but are also able to capture carbon.
in the field of forestry, i would particularly stress that active, sustainable forest management is the one that ensures carbon storage, ensures sustainable wood products and can thus provide climate protection in the long term.
i think our lesson has to be that we have to listen more to farmers, to foresters -- the very ones who can actively make sure that we achieve carbon sequestration.
but it is also important to me that we achieve this better, particularly in the process now under way on carbon farming, on the certification that the commission has proposed, and that we work with the farmers there to create incentives to move forward on carbon sequestration.
my appeal to this parliament, from left to right, is to please acknowledge that the climate crisis should transcend political differences; that the climate crisis is not a crisis you can sort of forget for a bit because there are other crises.
we should unite in our common efforts to fight this crisis because the climate crisis has the propensity to make all the other crises worse if it is not tackled.
increasingly, we are aware of a geopolitical dimension of the climate crisis – how it can engender conflict, how it can engender huge migration flows, how it can engender a race for water and food, which would, by definition, create violent conflict.
so please, please acknowledge this and let’s not draw the climate crisis into a left-right controversy or a political controversy between political parties.
so if we remain committed towards more ambitious climate action to reach climate neutrality by 2050, as set out in the climate law, then we have to act.
the climate laws are a compass to 2050. it sets an irreversible path towards climate neutrality and guides all sectors of the economy in their efforts to decarbonise.
the effort sharing regulation will ensure that member states cut their emissions by 40% by 2030 in sectors currently responsible for 60% of the eu’s emissions.
the lulucf regulation will ensure that we make full use of the emissions removal potential of our land and forests.
the compromises you will vote tomorrow are therefore key to deliver on our objective to become climate neutral by 2050. now we must make sure that the agreed package is adopted and implemented as soon as possible.
the lulucf deal is a milestone for european carbon sinks in the land sector.
improved monitoring and tracking of changes in carbon stock are specifically required for areas under the spotlight – such as biodiversity protection and restoration goals – and thereby contribute to protecting and enhancing nature-based carbon removal.
so the commission is grateful for the support of parliament on the improved monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions and removals by using digital technologies along the lines of our proposal.
2030 is around the corner and the energy crisis only shows the need to accelerate the transition.
the revised effort sharing regulation sets a clear path for member states to now plan and implement climate policies and actions in relevant sectors – road transport, buildings, agriculture and waste.
it’s been a very successful instrument to absorb the structural surplus of allowances in the carbon market.
this provides predictability and maintains a well-functioning carbon market, which is a carbon market that step by step has to become a global carbon market for all the world to reduce their emissions.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal.
the main objective of the law is to increase european carbon stocks by 15% by 2030. it is a very challenging goal and an ambitious goal, but it is achievable.
it is true that this requires active sustainable forestry and indeed the consideration of the cultivation of charcoal forests throughout europe.
while the importance of carbon sinks in combating climate change cannot be overstated, the most important thing is to get rid of all fossil fuels very quickly.
at the same time, we must take action to increase carbon stocks, develop measures to reduce carbon emissions, invest in research and develop technological solutions.
personal mobility will be further restricted, while at the same time the transport industry will collapse because of rising fuel prices and impossible environmental standards.
our ambitions for prosperity, social standards and even environmental ambitions will not be achieved without adequate funding, and this cannot be achieved without the significant input of industry and the support of people.
the last few years have shown us that we need industrial autonomy, and the way the global geopolitical map is now transforming must lead to even greater attention to an economic and ecological balance.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the european union's road map for implementing the objectives of the paris agreement on climate change, the european parliament must give its opinion on the results of the interinstitutional negotiations on certain legislative proposals.
the objective of drastically reducing greenhouse gas emissions is the right one.
while the development of carbon sinks to better maintain and protect our forests against over-harvesting and concrete is a great step forward, i am much more critical about strengthening the tools that make market logic, again, not planning, our ecological bifurcation.
since its inception, the carbon market has had marginal effects on reducing emissions.
worse still, some industrialists have hijacked the money and sold off their pollution rights for a profit.
it was the same logic that went into the so-called border carbon tax, which is not a border carbon tax.
it held out great hopes for protecting our strategic sectors, for producing more in europe with better social and environmental standards.
but in the end, the cbam has just once again expanded the carbon market to the rest of the world, which is not the solution.
in conclusion, reducing our emissions is crucial, but to do that, we need to change the software.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is a global emergency affecting countries on all continents through economic shocks, extreme weather and rising sea levels.
the greatest policy project of our time is to try to limit these effects through ambitious reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, while still ensuring a just transition and the competitiveness of our economies.
food must be more climate-friendly.
more sustainable forest management systems need to be introduced.
public revenues must be channelled to support individual farmers who practice practices that respect biodiversity.
they should remain competitive worldwide, and the cost of energy for our citizens should remain decent.
therefore, when negotiating the file with my colleagues in envi this time, we reached the agreement that msr should be maintained at 24% as to avoid shocks and to ensure complementarity, coherence and effectiveness in achieving the 2030 and 2050 climate ambition.
i never thought i'd have to explain to germany the value of climate action.
and when i say house, i mean our climate action, our future.
please stand up for the "fit for 55" package and stop blocking the central element of our climate package, the end of the burner.
madam president, mr timmermans, this is the first time that a romanian member of parliament has spoken as a european green, but it is not the first time that a romanian member of parliament has spoken about climate change, which he believes in and which we must address.
the climate crisis is here, but every crisis can also be an opportunity, an opportunity for progress.
but the government and the companies don't let people become producers, those prosumers, as they say in this brussels language, that is in the year when the energy companies made record profits, they don't let others produce for them.
europe is not the problem, climate change is not the problem, the problem is those who resist a very clear reality and direction of the world we live in.
our citizens are suffering the most in the current economic and energy crisis.
is it imperative to reduce co2 emissions from transport?
this is environmental nonsense, it will create a social catastrophe and the destruction of an industry in which europe is still a world leader.
the brutal increases in house prices and in a wide range of essential goods and services, the stagnating and low wages and pensions, the loss of purchasing power, exploitation, speculation and cartelism are increasing the profits of the large economic and financial groups in banking, energy, telecommunications and large retail, among others.
madam president, commissioner, i believe that after the health crisis, the economic crisis, the energy crisis, the security crisis, we are facing great challenges and i believe that it is essential to focus our attention on solving the problems facing our societies so that the recommendations of the european semester are applied exactly as they are intended to create a much more effective coordination to overcome all the vulnerabilities that the member states of the european union are going through.
the employment report calls on the member states to rapidly implement the provisions established in the minimum wage directive, saying that decent wages are an essential tool in helping households keep up with rising energy prices.
the semester is the way that people, the young people, everyone, are looking to see how we are shifting towards a sustainable, inclusive and resilient growth model.
but today we have a pandemic that's affected them, we have the russian invasion of ukraine that's affected, we have rising energy prices that's affected, just as unemployment and lack of real opportunity affects us every day.
we see jobs being destroyed, our business fabric losing density and industry not finding the conditions in our environment to develop its activity.
environmental demands have led to shortages and rising energy prices, inflation and legal uncertainty.
because there must be a balance between stability and growth; we must support it while generating prosperity, creating the environment that allows us to be competitive, to encourage entrepreneurship and to revive our economy.
– madam president, members, our growth strategy is based on the four dimensions of competitive sustainability.
at the same time, high energy prices and high inflation have increased the burden on the population, worsening their living conditions.
russia has used, again, energy supplies as a political weapon.
we know that the citizens of the republic of moldova want european integration, we know that the current authorities in chisinau, the presidency, the government, the parliamentary majority, want european integration, and we know who does not want it: the russian federation and the oligarchs who have been accustomed to controlling the business environment, the political scene and the media in the republic of moldova in recent years.
and then there is a severe economic crisis, with a very large trade deficit and a purchasing power that is completely overwhelmed by the energy bill.
the economic situation is tense, the security environment is fragile.
moscow is restricting energy supplies and trying to destabilize the pro-european government through orchestrated protests.
it's about improving the economic environment, and it's about building resilience to russian disinformation.
for moldova, the solidarity of the european union, energy, money, reforms and tolerance are vital now.
the republic of moldova needs our support, both declaratively but especially practically, given its limited defense capabilities, limited experience on the democratic path and an already badly tried economy, the pandemic, the war in ukraine, energy dependence, the separatist zone of transnistria.
madam president, of course improving the energy performance of buildings is something we all want to achieve, especially in the face of today's environmental challenges.
madam president, i voted against the energy performance of buildings report because it will lead to a severe increase in home rental prices, which will make the very few rich people richer and the rest of the people poorer.
we need fairness in the digital environment, and that's why i think it's necessary that users, as well as manufacturers, can leverage the data from the devices they're connected to.
this law mandates and obviously provides equity in the digital environment to stimulate a competitive data market, to open up new opportunities for data-driven innovation and will make data more accessible to all.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the union's energy market is not affected by the price pressure of the us dollar.
both because more countries have become aware of the climate challenges we face.
although we have been able to avoid energy shortages this winter, poverty and energy insecurity are still a reality that we have to overcome.
we need a european energy policy now, in the medium and long term, which promotes the geopolitical diversification of the supply of clean and affordable energy.
on the other hand, we need to deploy renewable energy and green hydrogen, key elements to achieve a just ecological transition that both humanity and the planet need.
let us take the opportunity to consolidate a genuine common energy policy.
madam president, this mandate thus far has been marked by our commitment to climate change, which is good.
so we have net zero emissions, we have fit for 55 with the green deal, etc.
now, i would like to see the rest of this mandate being dedicated to highlighting the supports we can give to member states and businesses in dealing with this challenge so that the headlines would be the eu is helping us to reach our climate goals and at the same time maintaining or improving our competitiveness.
we need to hear more about these instruments so people can see that the eu is supporting them in reaching the climate change goals.
therefore, we have developed the concept of competitive sustainability, and i really would like to thank this house for the support for the battery regulation, where we place this concept for the first time into full practice.
each battery placed on the eu market will have a qr code telling us exactly what is the carbon footprint, where the critical raw materials came from, whether they have been ethically sourced and, of course, what the warranty is for their recycling.
ms garcía pérez, mr moreno sánchez and mr schirdewan have been making very important remarks, together with several honourable members, on how the high energy prices are affecting our households and our industry.
we believe that the common political and economic weight of the european economy will bring us not only better security of supply, but also lower energy prices, which are so crucial for addressing the cost of living of our families, but also the competitiveness of our industry.
after the brexit upheaval, after the covid, after the awareness of the need to be engaged in the climate field, in the digital field, we are facing a war on the european continent.
the second point, and we have been at the heart of this political and economic battle for the last few months, is energy.
and long before that, we were very divided among europeans on how to approach this question of our energy future.
it is striking to me to see in a few months the leap forward in political convergence towards greater europeanisation of the energy question.
who would have imagined two or three years ago that today we would be talking about a common purchasing platform for energy?
who would have thought that we would be in a moment when we would accelerate this ambition to develop renewable energy for more independence, for more sovereignty, and that we would have these debates on the different technologies that are needed in order to have, tomorrow, the capacities that are useful to protect competitiveness, to protect prosperity and our ability to support families all over europe?
secondly, the energy question.
the european council of 23 and 24 march will follow up this and adopt the principles of energy market reform.
it is well known that we rely on space assets to provide important services like earth observation, communication, navigation, services that we need, for example, for environmental monitoring to mitigate the consequences of climate change, for weather forecast, disaster response, internet access, tv broadcasting, even smart traffic.
space assets are even crucial for energy provision or financial transactions and many other vital economic functions.
esa works constantly to ensure that these essential services are secured and that all relevant assets are managed efficiently and remain available to support the policies that you, the political decision—makers, set for us for the benefit of european citizens, be it about climate change, the green transition, the digital transformation, sustainable development or inclusiveness.
we will also launch two exciting new science missions: juice, to explore the icy moons of jupiter, in april, and euclid, with which we will better understand dark matter and dark energy, in july.
the key to do this is, is to focus on our on our biggest and strongest assets, namely the single market and sustainable trade.
in fact, long before covid, the energy crisis and the war in ukraine, over the last four decades, our growth rates have been sluggish compared to the united states and many oecd countries.
nextgenerationeu remains a valid response to today's challenges, linked to the eu's energy security, sustainable industrial competitiveness and the industrial transition to a net-zero economy while contributing to upward social and economic convergence.
obviously, as asked for in your resolution of 16 february, we have to work on new own resources, including a financial transaction tax to ensure sustainable financing on a long-term basis.
they respond to country-specific recommendations with a focus on improving green and digital infrastructures and the regulatory and business environment.
climate neutrality and digital excellence are at the core of the union's industrial strategy as it has been updated.
a strong and innovative industry is essential for europe's prosperity, but also security in the new geopolitical environment.
the goal set with the green deal industrial plan is to enhance the competitiveness of europe's net-zero industry and accelerate the transition to climate neutrality, providing a more supportive environment for scaling up the eu's manufacturing capacity for the net-zero technologies.
first, it brings together many factors: economic, social and environmental ones.
the green deal industrial plan focuses on four key pillars that will be the key to achieve this predictable and simplified regulatory environment, faster access to funding, open trade for resilient supply chains, as well as skills for quality jobs.
in its important resolution on an eu strategy to boost industrial competitiveness, trade and quality jobs, parliament has stressed that the european industrial strategy should be designed both for securing european leadership in clean energy technologies and for improving the existing industrial base and supporting its transformation to provide high quality jobs and economic growth for all europeans.
climate change, the pandemic, the war in ukraine, all these successive crises are showing us that it is very important to change the direction of development on our continent, to support the autonomy of the european union and to invest massively in innovation.
we need to support green industry, here including not just traditional industry, but can produce in much less polluting ways with innovation, but also industry that will support renewable energy, recyclable and reusable products.
innovation must be present and financially supported in all economic areas, from energy production to industry and textile recycling, to agriculture, to education, because these will be the jobs that will add value to our economy, to the economy of the european union.
my colleague ylva johansson told me how in colombia she saw from a helicopter the gaps made in the rainforest for growing coca leaves, polluting the environment with chemicals.
and she met villagers in the very same room where criminals murdered their mayor because he dared to cultivate sustainable crops rather than coca.
and so we welcome the fact that the council has clearly set out its ten priorities in assessing this threat, which include, of course, terrorism, drug trafficking, economic and environmental crime and the trafficking of firearms.
mr president, mr first vice-president, we must find and implement the best solutions to protect the environment.
this commission proposal to revise the f-gas regulation puts entire industries, jobs, fair competition on the european market and the energy independence of the member states at risk.
it is not smart to make decisions that our societies and our states are not yet ready for and will not be ready for after 2026. to be realistic, we must first ensure that the necessary steps to phase out basic equipment from f-gases are taken gradually, complementing the eu's climate and energy ambitions, without harming ourselves, deepening our energy dependence on other states.
the report on f-gases is a sad example of good intentions compromised by a lack of realism and populist-ecological excess.
the commission should be able to impose a ban on the use of fluorinated greenhouse gases in refrigeration equipment and on the use of fluorinated greenhouse gases in air conditioning equipment and heat pumps.
i am in favour of phasing out fluorinated gases because of their greenhouse effect, but the reduction must be gradual so that the sectors concerned can adapt technologically to develop clean alternatives and citizens are not forced to buy new products before the end of their life cycle.
it is not normal for industry already hit by the pandemic and energy crisis, the market affected by supply chain dysfunctions and consumers burdened by the hardships of daily living to be so upset.
for the accelerated phase-out of fluorinated gases, which account for 2.5% of eu greenhouse gas emissions!
now they have to go through bad regulation that will create a bad work environment and a breakdown of litigation.
we cannot be demanding only within the european union, we must also be demanding with those who want to have access to the european market, and that is why i believe that this regulation is necessary to protect biodiversity and to protect the european consumer.
president, ladies and gentlemen, with this new legislation we are finally making heavy industry pay for its pollution and we are tightening up our climate targets.
at the same time, we are ensuring fair competition with the rest of the world by introducing the carbon cap tax.
i welcome this step forward for the climate, although the phasing out of these free emission allowances would have been a little faster for us greens.
we can't afford to hit the most vulnerable families with a carbon tax on heating or transportation.
yes, the social climate fund will be a step forward to help families out of mobility and energy poverty.
invest massively in real social climate policies, insulate social housing, invest in more and better public transport.
climate policy and social justice must always go hand in hand.
we need everyone on board if we're going to make the climate transition a success.
the european parliament seems to think that the climate target is something fluffy and fine that does not affect people's everyday lives.
the eu sells its climate laws as a way to save money, but in reality they create a huge burden on ordinary people.
there are no trucks running on electricity today, so transport will also be affected by the eu's new carbon price.
the eu's climate policy is not some magical nangijala.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 14 march we approved the negotiating mandate for the proposal for a directive on the energy efficiency of buildings.
today another crucial dossier is under discussion: the commission has also proposed a regulation establishing the social climate fund.
we have always called for additional resources to support the most vulnerable groups affected by energy poverty, and this 65 billion is a timid step in the right direction.
energy efficiency, access to decent housing and mobility must not be a luxury for the few.
the europe we want is ambitious in embracing the energy transition fully, but it must be more attentive to the weakest bands.
mr president, commissioner, some european citizens, including my fellow citizens in romania, are concerned about the reforms needed to combat climate change, and we need to understand these fears and make it clear that they will not be abandoned in this process so important for our health, so that our children, future generations, can enjoy nature and all its benefits.
by 2026, repowereu will help households, small businesses and entrepreneurs to reduce their energy bill by €20 billion.
right after that, from 2027, we'll have 86.7 billion euros in the climate transition fund, and especially for those who would hardly afford to renovate their house or change their car.
these things will help romania not to fall behind in the rapid changes we are making, in leaving a clean and healthy planet for future generations and europe to remain at the forefront of the global fight against climate change.
mr president, commissioner, the canary islands, as an outermost region, have always shown their commitment to combating climate change.
it's about energy and the issues we're dealing with today: the carbon credits, the cbam mechanism, the social fund.
we want to help the climate, to get rid of greenhouse gases, on the one hand, and on the other hand to limit the access and the entry of co2 from other continents through products, while at the same time, through the social fund, helping those who will be most affected by this transition.
energy prices have gone up since the war in ukraine.
on the other hand, we have to think about the people who live in the hills and need vehicles, and the energy companies will be burdened with coupons.
while the primary purpose, of course, of the fit for 55 package is to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, it also reinforces european democracy by providing a clear link between the will of the people and transposing that into concrete legislation that we will vote on in the european parliament this week.
i would also like to say that it is a concrete, practical application of the sustainable development goals.
the sustainable development goals contain objectives and targets that can be achieved through our legislation.
the social climate fund is a perfect example of this, as well as the carbon border adjustment mechanism.
today, when we vote on this great climate package, we all say, how much we have done for the environment, how much we have done for the planet.
if we already had this package, if we already had renewable energy, we would have been much better off this winter, bills would have been much lower for people.
i was responsible for cbam, the price we put on those outside the union who don't respect the environment.
the romanians rightly say: it is not ok for us to respect certain environmental standards and for outsiders not to respect them.
it's not ok for companies to move from us to china so they don't have to respect the environment, because it doesn't really matter there.
in the fit for 55 legislative package, we want to ensure the eu's transition to climate neutrality, bringing benefits to both the environment and citizens.
in this regard, it is necessary to pay particular attention to the effective implementation of the climate action social mitigation fund, which aims to support the groups most affected by this system.
the new fund should be an important pillar in addressing the problem of 34 million people currently facing energy poverty.
it is essential to ensure the synergy of the fund with the other eu financial instruments to leave no one behind in the transition to climate neutrality.
and i am glad to hear that mr lamberts seems to have recognised this, because that is the only way we will achieve the sustainable change we want.
the energy challenge for europe continues, after the success last year of the first regulation on winter storage, as president buzek said.
so it is good that the commission has addressed this with a recommendation, but i - as mr casares has said, i believe - expect something more from the commission, namely that i think that a common regulatory framework is necessary and useful above all, and that therefore common measures, including through legislative action, should be put on the table, aimed at solidarity between the states, as we did with the first regulation, aimed for example at purchases, as you are doing, in short, at a framework that goes in the direction of what we continue to dream of and hope to achieve, which is the energy union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, yes, we need better energy storage, and i welcome all the innovations in this area, from hydrogen to pumped hydroelectricity.
and unrealistic estimates have led europe to an energy shortage, to an energy crisis in which, again, because of the energy shortage, the dirtiest sources of energy have been opened up.
our first common goal is to ensure that we have enough energy, and our second common goal is to ensure that we have as clean energy as possible.
i have to say, madam president, the european energy planning has proved to be a disaster with fatal consequences for the average european, the average dane.
the green forces in this parliament have spent all their energy fighting against efficient green energy such as nuclear power.
denmark is a leader in wind energy.
but the fact is that all the wind energy that we're planning in the north sea is not going to be much help without efficient energy storage, without power-to-x technologies, without all the things that we lack today.
a uachtaráin, commissioner kadri, energy is the lifeblood of any economy, and building a more sustainable and resilient energy system is imperative for the future of every member state, especially in light of recent geopolitical developments.
renewables do not produce power constantly and amid increased electricity demands, energy storage becomes critical as it enables us to store renewable energy when it is abundant and use it when it is needed.
however, the eu has only a limited amount of storage capacity, with the majority of energy being stored in the form of pumped hydro, which has significant geographical limitations.
we must ensure that eu policies create a market environment to support a rapid, large-scale deployment of storage projects and other flexibility technologies.
ireland is a leader in deploying renewable technologies, such as battery storage and grid flexibility enhancement systems.
as the technology advances, it will bring greater battery performance and therefore it is important that any market reforms recognise the value of energy storage, meaning greater certainty for investors.
there can be no energy independence and security without a reliable source of energy.
also, the wind is volatile, as i told you, and you can't rely on it to produce energy continuously.
such energy can produce power that is reliable and predictable.
the same energy that we, colleagues in this room, systematically, consistently destroy, destroy, driven by some green utopia of their own or motivated by the manufacturers of solar cells, wind turbines and other such devices.
madam president, in the current context, we are still working on making the union less dependent on russian oil and gas and reaching our climate goals, our green deal agenda.
that is why we in the itre committee and the european parliament outlined the need for a new waste energy storage strategy back in 2022. therefore, i welcome the commission recommendations on how to exploit the potential of energy storage and the commission’s proposal to review the electricity market design, which recognises also the crucial role of energy storage in enabling the deployment of renewable energy.
the itre committee is very committed to working towards facilitating renewable energy deployment and i am very proud of my colleagues that just agreed an agreement on renewable energy deployment just a couple of weeks ago.
finally, the storage potential of hydrogen is particularly beneficial for power grids as it allows for renewable energy to be kept not only in large quantities, but also for long periods of time.
madam president, commissioner, predictability and flexibility are the key concepts for energy to continue to evolve towards decarbonisation, security of supply, efficiency, the fight against energy poverty and technological innovation.
storage is key to the decarbonisation of the european union's energy system.
the reform of the energy market must reflect this.
the commission's basic proposal, now under interinstitutional negotiation, takes important steps to facilitate and encourage investment in dynamic energy storage processes and in particular renewable energy.
these options, which are in line with the commission's recommendations, should also be reflected in the national energy and climate plans, which now more than ever must not only be national optimisation plans to meet european targets, but also act as catalysts for public debate and the participatory transformation of the european energy system and also of the energy systems of each member state.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is probably no greater priority at the moment at european union level than ensuring common and full energy independence from the russian federation.
moreover, until we achieve renewable energy at european level, we must maintain gas as a transition energy.
the european energy system proved to be vulnerable, even though you have done great job, commissioner, last winter.
we need innovation in the production of energy, but also in developing new and large storage capacities for the energy.
the european funds in this sector must be more flexible and way less bureaucratic, and we need to go over the national approach into a real european energy market.
if we want green energy for everyone at affordable prices, we must dare to make big changes now.
digitalisation will ensure the competitiveness of our industries and help achieve our climate targets.
the environment, the issue of training and further training, the issue of digitalisation, the issue of mental health, the issues such as unpaid traineeships or participation - to what extent are they really being pushed forward in the commission, in a regular exchange between the directorates-general?
there is no doubt about it: young people have been greatly impacted by covid and also are going to be affected most by the crisis in climate.
and i would ask commissioner gabriel whether she will utilise next year’s year of skills to ensure that young people are encouraged to take up the skills that are necessary to meet our obligations in renewable energy, the energy performance of buildings, etc.
towards energy independence as the foundation of security.
inflation remains very high and affects the overall salary-related expenditure and other indexed expenditure such as rent as well as energy bills.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
the emissions scandal has been a matter of great concern to us in germany too.
this will help to close the significant gap between the co2 emissions measured on the test bench and those in road traffic.
the test was also introduced for the measurement of nitrogen oxide emissions in practical driving conditions.
these real driving emissions must be based on realistic everyday conditions and not on abusive test drives.
moreover, a new study shows that emissions manipulation is still a reality.
similar things can happen with the introduction of the new euro 7 emissions standard under discussion and with electric cars, where the environmental impact is artificially reduced and ultimately only consumers pay for it.
with regard to the defeat devices that were installed before the real driving emissions test procedure was implemented, we agreed that, with the underlying motivation to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions from these vehicles, we will further engage in legally sound corrective actions.
we have made a lot of progress for reducing the emissions from diesel vehicles, and now we are taking the next step towards entirely emission-free cars.
eight years after the outbreak of the dieselgate scandal, the international council on clean transport (icct) report has found that more than 40% of cars on the road in europe still have 'extreme' levels of nitrous oxide (nox) emissions.
the transition to electric vehicles will also be a decisive step in reducing air pollution from cars and vans.
health is a basis for sustainable development with important implications for the safety, stability and prosperity of all societies, including within the eu.
the first is to tackle the root causes of ill health – whether they are economic, social or environmental – keep putting people always at the centre.
these will put us back on track to achieve the health-related sustainable development goals.
it is crucial that eu investments in third countries go where they are needed and that they are sustainable in the long term, because by working together with global solidarity, we can transform healthcare systems, not only for ourselves, but also for countries that badly need it.
we must make a significant contribution to improving global health and achieving sustainable development.
mr president, dear colleagues, when the intergovernmental panel on climate change is using hysterical, spoiled people like greta thunberg – whose place should be in school, not on the streets – to promote these reports, clearly we are dealing with a belief system and cult rather than a scientifically based organisation.
carbon dioxide is a gas that currently represents 0.041% of the whole atmosphere.
despite this small percent, for decades now, campaigns are run to make people believe that manmade co2 is the cause of the climate change.
the solutions proposed to fight climate change are higher taxes and more state control, as well as less rights and options for the people.
‘emissions must have a price that changes our behaviour.’ this is what ursula von der leyen said in this plenary in 2019. obviously the clear objective is to change our behaviour through higher taxes and prices, while fighting climate change is just a pretext to do it.
and i’m glad that you asked this because it is surprising that when we talk about an important topic like this, like climate change, in the media, for example, and even in these plenary people like greta thunberg are more quoted than actual experts.
one month after the last ipcc report was published, the first climate process in history was started in romania by the declic association in cluj and is supported by several environmental organizations.
these processes will only multiply, because people are demanding their rights: the rights to life, to health, to climate rights, to a future.
anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions have warmed the climate at an unprecedented rate.
and global greenhouse gas emissions continue to increase with unequal contribution across regions and households.
i’ve said there is a large agreement, but there are also voices contesting, a sort of climate negationism making us or making people believe that this is not true against the facts, against science.
the european green deal places environmental concerns and planetary health at the centre of eu policy attention.
arriving amid the global energy crisis, the ipcc’s messages confirm the need for the eu to stay at the forefront of the fight against climate change by progressing with its efforts to become climate neutral, climate resilient and to accelerate the clean energy transition.
i also have heard that finally it’s just europe taking care of the climate.
when we look around what happens in the us, when we look around even what happens in china – and certainly there are still a lot of shortcomings there – well, we see that they invest massively in climate technologies.
and the real risk is not that we are losing the competition because we are investing in climate, but that we are losing the competition because we do not invest enough in climate technologies.
and all these ideas that we can delay on electric cars and on renewable energy are extremely dangerous ideas because they are weakening the competition, our competitiveness in the world economy, where a lot of actors are going in the other direction.
we have to clearly state that fossil energy has no future, not just because of russia, certainly also because of russia, but this energy has no future.
and i fully agree there is no climate policy without a strong social dimension.
there are already in the package a lot of good initiatives like the climate social fund, but also our social policy has to go along very strictly, very tightly linked with our climate policy.
and this is the way we can convince our citizens, and especially the most vulnerable, that climate policy is good for them because we have strong social policies and fairness in our society.
but it is important also to go further and to see what we should do in the perspective of 2040. in line with the european climate law the commission will present an impact assessment next spring with a proposal for the eu’s intermediate climate target for 2040. a public consultation on the eu’s climate target for 2040 is open for contributions until 24 june 2023, and that 2040 target will be an important milestone for strengthening climate action and achieving climate neutrality.
we need to ensure that the eu is on track and remains on track to meet its own domestic climate objective for 2050, and especially also globally: we have to be a strong voice globally.
spanish citizens are already suffering the consequences of climate change, it's a tangible problem.
fighting climate change now is the only way to protect our well-being in the decades ahead.
at international level, there is an urgent need for non-binding commitments by third countries to be translated into legislative measures and for a decisive agreement at the next cop28 climate summit.
spanish citizens are already suffering the consequences of climate change, it's a tangible problem.
fighting climate change now is the only way to protect our well-being in the decades ahead.
at international level, there is an urgent need for non-binding commitments by third countries to be translated into legislative measures and for a decisive agreement at the next cop28 climate summit.
but the crypto market is still an extraordinarily volatile environment, where millions of inexperienced investors can lose their fortunes in a matter of seconds.
furthermore, as i was just referring a minute ago, we have already put together sizeable fiscal funds in order to have sustained and sustainable recovery from the pandemic through the recovery and resilience facility.
our new approach to state aid to not only tackle the aftershocks of covid—19, but also to help our households, our companies, our member states, with unprecedented challenges linked with the energy crisis of the last year.
and to some of the honourable members, i just would like to also remind our proposals on taxing excessive revenues of the energy companies and making it available for supportive measures of the citizens of europe and struggling smes.
so also to respond to ms penkova, by contrast, the proposed framework incentivises the implementation of reforms and investment, including those needed to achieve climate and fiscal goals, by allowing, in this case, an extended and more gradual fiscal adjustment path from four to seven years in member states with debt challenges.
more sustainable and bolder rule changes would have been appropriate, like increased flexibility allowing for fiscal adjustments to carry higher levels of public investment, plus a stronger focus on the social dimension.
that is why it is so important that europe acts in solidarity and with determination to promote food security and poverty reduction, and that we honour the commitments we have made in international climate and environmental protection.
if we continue to negotiate new free trade agreements for years without success, others will dictate the rules in the future with lower environmental and social standards.
i'm talking about the shift of our countries, our economies and our societies towards a climate-neutral future.
it is important that the citizens of our countries also feel this in their daily lives, for example because electricity from renewable energy sources will become cheaper in the future, because there are enough charging stations for electric cars and lorries throughout europe, because new, future-oriented jobs are being created in the energy sector or in the chip industry, because here in europe we develop and market the technologies that the whole world needs for the transition towards climate neutrality.
yes, today we are good at management, vaccine procurement, arf, ten sanctions packages, energy crisis - all of this has been managed.
as chairman of the christian democrats, i would also like to point out that we are fighting climate change together.
and in order to address the social, climate and environmental challenges, as well as reindustrialisation, we need to strengthen economic governance, with clearer, more flexible fiscal rules, which allow us to ensure budgetary stability with the necessary growth of the economy.
your party has even campaigned you as a climate chancellor, as someone who takes action, as someone who delivers.
if the fdp, for example, is jeopardising germany's credibility and the german government's reputation as a reliable partner in europe, and this is happening in the context of a key european union climate policy project, the phase-out of the internal combustion engine, a key element of the "fit for 55" package, what is the german chancellor doing?
of many sins that the german governments have committed, let me mention two: the migration crisis – when germany single-handedly opened the eu borders – and recently, the energy and security crisis, which resulted from its having a long and murky tradition of political romance with russia.
food prices are exploding, rents are rising, one in four children in the european union is growing up in poverty, and 54 million people do not know how to pay their energy bills.
the pharmaceutical industry, the energy and food companies, now the defense industry, they're making a fool of themselves.
you could have announced here today the elimination of the obscene profits of the corporations, to put a stop to the greed inflation of the super-rich once and for all and to advance the fight against poverty in the european union, or - unlike your minister for economic affairs, habeck - you could have announced a climate policy that would not allow the rich to continue to pollute the climate with their private jets and yachts, while people with less money have to fear that they can still turn up their heat.
we need a solidarity pact for employment, investment and environmental protection.
germany, under your leadership, which is not a country, is in economic decline and in the process of deindustrialisation, an energy-policy ghost nation, laughed at by its neighbours.
many people think of foreign policy, but i want to refer to taxation: how many problems could we solve if we could put together a european energy tax package, in terms of energy costs for people and also for european industry in the transition to climate neutrality?
the same applies to the energy supply.
the self-destructive dependence on russian gas is finally being reduced, but the turbo for self-sufficiency in decentralized energy has not yet been launched.
instead, sustainably produced wood is being banned as an energy source.
i want to speak about energy policy, which has been discussed from various perspectives here, and i want to leave no doubt about the position of germany on this matter, which is unanimous and united in the government i lead.
we are responsible for almost 2% - some people calculate a little differently - of the world's emissions, as has been pointed out from the right.
and the question that some people ask is, why are we doing anything about climate change at all?
and secondly, it's our economic strength, it's our engineers that we have in germany and europe, it's our companies and the technologies that we can develop that will help us to stop man-made climate change.
we've made a commitment to be carbon neutral by 2045. that means electrification and more electricity production, as was also mentioned here, that means hydrogen instead of coal, gas and oil, and that means from now until 2045 not 25 years.
and if germany, a country that because of its industrial strength, for example, and other countries are similarly producing and consuming 600 terawatt hours of electricity a year, can do that, by the end of this decade it will be a third more, and in the 1930s it will be 1,000 terawatt hours that we have to produce, all from renewable sources: wind from offshore wind farms, from onshore wind farms, from solar, from biomass and all the possibilities.
but if we do that, we will have a great mobilization of innovation, we will have economic growth like europe has not had for a long time, and that will be good for the environment, but also good for jobs and prosperity in the future.
these declines are further exacerbated by the warming climate to which the mediterranean is particularly vulnerable.
climate scientists estimate that its impact will be 20% stronger than elsewhere in europe.
this will quickly add to the problems facing the european citizens living there: fires, devastating storms, dwindling water resources, loss of biodiversity.
on the other hand, human activities have an increasing impact on the sea, for example the increase in international maritime traffic passing through the sea, bringing air pollution and discharges to the sea, and also the increase in coastal populations, such as tourist attendance.
rapporteur: ramona strugariu (a9-0107/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0248/2022- 2022/2102(dec)] - committee on budgetary control.
rapporteur: gilles boyer (a9-0137/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0238/2022- 2022/2092(dec)] - committee on budgetary control.
rapporteur: ramona strugariu (a9-0105/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0275/2022- 2022/2129(dec)] - committee on budgetary control.
even more alarming in that sense is the lack of responsibility and the failure to fully recognise shortcomings in the methodology with regards to climate spending.
the court calculated that spending on climate action has been overstated by eur 72 billion for the 2014–2020 period, and the commission refuses to fully acknowledge it – commissioner timmermans came to a cont meeting and concluded by saying that we should agree to disagree on this.
sorry, but no, we cannot agree to disagree on overstating eur 72 billion of climate spending.
pandemic, war, economic hardship, energy crisis, climate emergency – we are stronger if we can face them all better and united.
this means that we will change our modus and production profoundly to be more sustainable and based on fossil-free, rather than fossil energy, sources.
it is essential that we can ensure that the year of digital and climate change does not fall on the shoulders of workers and does not constitute a worsening of people's socioeconomic inequalities, including in access to lifelong education and training.
mr president, consumers are not poorly informed about the environmental impact of products.
in fact, the eu itself lies and deceives about agricultural production, about co2, about diesel and gasoline cars, to push the climate agenda.
the eu must stop the climate dictatorship, which robs citizens of their last penny and freedom, and stop dispossessing farmers.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the products it produces is not compromised.
there are products where screws are stuck, there are printers that stop printing after a certain number of sheets of paper, there are washing machines, there are small plastic wheels that just break, and this is a huge crime, not only against our consumers, but also against the environment.
president, commissioner, colleagues, businesses - and i am thinking in particular of smes - are at the heart of our transition to a more sustainable economic model.
as a consumer, you do not always have the information you need to make a sustainable and environmentally conscious choice.
vague environmental claims, deliberate aging and unsubstantiated sustainability scores really need to be a thing of the past.
all of this is aimed at guiding our consumers to make a sufficiently responsible purchasing decision, thus also contributing to more sustainable consumption.
the new rules also strengthen fair and transparent relationships between companies and end-users through a stricter ban on vague and false information about products from a sustainability perspective.
i am therefore convinced that this proposal can help us to make more efficient use of the resources at our disposal and also to develop our market in a sustainable way.
we all have a role to play in reaching our climate targets, and it is clear that europeans from all member states are committed to playing their part if given the opportunity.
our daily choices have the power to drive change and make a significant impact on our climate.
it is vital that information on a product’s environmental impact is clear and accurate, particularly on the durability, repairability and general sustainability of products.
we cannot let companies exploit consumers’ willingness to make sustainable choices.
guaranteeing third-party monitoring of certification scheme compliance is necessary and there should be a crackdown on false carbon neutrality claims.
consumers need safe products that do not harm their health and do not contribute massively to pollution, but we must give people, our citizens, the power to choose the right products at the right price, not force them through excessive costs or restrictions imposed by law.
the installation of such so-called billboards is not only bad for consumers' finances but also for the environment.
without this information, too many consumers are held back in their drive to promote a sustainable economy.
i thank you again for your support and attention, and i am confident that by working together we will be able to advance these consumer rights as part of the transition to a more sustainable economy.
european consumers will be empowered and environmental agenda advanced by these efforts.
madam president, methane is a powerful greenhouse gas, second only to carbon dioxide in its overall contribution to climate change and air pollution.
in the eu, the energy sector is estimated to account for around a fifth of human-made methane emissions.
i therefore welcome the report’s overall objective to reduce direct methane emissions from the oil, fossils, gas and coal sectors and from biomethane once it is injected in the gas network in the energy sector.
it is important that we ensure the highest standards of measurement, reporting and verification of energy sector methane emissions and the immediate reduction of emissions through mandatory leak detection and repair, and a ban on venting and flaring.
although not perfect, the proposal reflects the urgency to reduce methane emissions in the energy sector, while also ensuring that energy prices at not significantly impacted for consumers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted for this report because, although it seems drastic, the effects of methane emissions on human health and climate change are worrying.
of course, we have entire regions that depend on methane gas for energy.
there are regions where this is a better solution for the environment than what is currently being used.
but we must consider the possibilities of investing in new technologies that produce energy in a much greener way.
this report imposes certain rules aimed at improving the quality and technology used in the energy sector and aiming at reducing gas and methane emissions.
all sectors need to contribute to reducing pollution and slowing down global warming, which affects us all and which we see, unfortunately, every day.
madam president, after carbon dioxide, methane is the second most impactful gas on the global environment, responsible for one-third of the current global warming.
in november 2021, 110 countries and the european union launched the global commitment on methane, committing to reduce global methane emissions by 30% by 2030 compared to 2020 levels.
at the same time, i agree that the european union must ensure that, through its climate action, europe's industry is not seriously harmed and that it remains truly competitive on a global scale.
only by balancing environmental measures and protecting industry will we ensure that the european path is sustainable and puts the interests of citizens first.
the commitment to a 30% reduction in methane emissions by 2030 is, in my view, manageable.
and we also have to realize that methane is a very potent greenhouse gas, although its effect pretty much fades after 12 years, or those molecules turn into co2 molecules.
the eu’s common fisheries policy should ensure that fishing activities contribute to long-term environmental, economic and social sustainability and contribute to increased productivity and a fair standard of living for the fisheries sector, many of whom have suffered greatly because of brexit.
(the sitting was briefly suspended)
the next item is the debate on report by michael gahler and zdzisław krasnodębski, on behalf of the committee on committee on foreign affairs and the committee on industry, research and energy, on the european defence industry reinforcement through common procurement act (edirpa) (com(2022)0349 – c9-0287/2022 – 2022/0219(cod)) (a9-0161/2023).
madam president, commissioner, i would like to welcome the outcome of the interinstitutional negotiations, mainly because it gives flexibility to the member states in adapting the energy mix to national needs, and i am referring in particular to wood biomass, which in a country with such important resources as romania, my country, for example, must find its place in a sustainable energy mix, aligned with all green deal strategies.
without striking a balance between the role of wood as a carbon-absorbing building material and that of wood as a renewable energy source, the forestry sector would not have been able to reach its full potential and europe's objectives.
on the other hand, excluding biomass from the national mix would have deepened energy poverty in communities that simply have no other way to ensure a decent living.
the outcome of these negotiations therefore shows that we can defend the environment and biodiversity in a balanced way, including through measures that also take into account the current needs and realities of all member states in a union seeking energy independence.
they called on china to act internationally in areas such as the climate emergency and the biodiversity crisis, supporting vulnerable countries, global health and macroeconomic stability.
although we could not achieve concrete results on the global agreement on sustainable steel and aluminium or on the agreement on essential minerals, progress was made in both cases and negotiations will continue, as always with the old partners.
as regards the global agreement on sustainable steel and aluminium, i believe we now have a better understanding of their respective positions and the importance we attach in the european union to compliance with the rules of the world trade organization, while maintaining our regulatory autonomy and fully respecting our legislation.
notably, we made significant progress towards a global arrangement on sustainable steel and aluminium, and a critical minerals agreement.
moreover, the critical materials agreement will enable us to jointly advocate for environmental protection and labour rights in trade and international supply chains of critical minerals.
however, other challenges are emerging: escalation of conflict and humanitarian crises in the middle east; our relations with china and the global south; how to defend our democracies and make our economies more sustainable and resilient.
the european union has a strong commitment to the fight against climate change and the introduction of new euro 7 emission standards for cars, trucks and heavy-duty vehicles is a huge step towards a sustainable europe.
that is why the new pollution limits must be realistic and ensure that the european automotive industry remains competitive and relevant globally.
so we voted in favour of a new set of rules to achieve the eu's climate goals without putting too much of a burden on citizens.
data that makes you angry and shows you can't waste time.
we cannot allow years of fighting child poverty to go to waste.
this objective was already articulated by ursula von der leyen in 2019, exactly in this plenary, when she stated, and i quote, ‘carbon emissions must have a price that changes people’s behaviour’.
the fact that these products are now banned on the european market is precisely because their use is harmful to human health, the environment and biodiversity.
and that’s a pity, because many are making huge efforts to farm sustainably and reduce their carbon footprint.
i think we must protect the environment, but i think at the same time we cannot double down, commissioner, because you approved, for example, imports from ukraine without plant health testing and you destroyed the producers in my country, romania and other countries and at the same time, the pressure is on farmers and producers in the european union.
in this respect, promoting biopesticides as an effective, affordable and sustainable alternative is essential.
this approach will allow for a fairer transition and protect farmers' interests while ensuring food security and environmental protection.
madam president, we have debated today the directions that the european union should take before the un climate change conference.
first, we must appreciate that the european union is now a leader in action on climate change, proving that we can be a global role model in the fight against climate change.
moreover, we need to ensure that all our global partners meet their climate action commitments.
it's time to create a global equitable approach, to ensure that our contributions to combating climate change are reflected in concrete actions, benefiting the entire planet.
our future is shaped by young people, and we have a responsibility to ensure that they grow up in a safe and prosperous environment.
if mrs von der leyen is promoting the green deal and calling for zero emissions, i respectfully announce something: every year, trucks that wait 24 hours at the border generate 46,000 tons of carbon dioxide.
the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment.
because without the work and the value it creates, there is less sustainability of public service.
companies are facing a number of challenges: economic downturns, high interest rates, geopolitical tensions, fractured supply chains, skyrocketing energy prices.
according to businesseurope, brussels has taken 850 new commitments in the last few years, covering 5000 pages, on greening and sustainability.
i am pleased to be able to speak on the subject of reducing regulatory burdens, because it is an important subject for improving the business environment and for improving our competitiveness on a global scale.
the financial pillar of the growth plan, the eur 6 billion growth facility, needs to be adopted during the mandate of this parliament, as we have no time to waste.
the reality is that the eu is a permissive regulatory environment that has allowed these toxic products to undermine democracy and freedom everywhere.
it was clear to our group and others that social and environmental guidelines and stricter requirements for project developers, high environmental standards, good work, respect for human rights were needed.
this includes what was particularly important to us besides the social and environmental guidelines the principle of free, prior and informed consent for indigenous peoples, but also the clear rejection of deep-sea mining and the tightening of requirements for projects if they are to maintain their status as strategic.
the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
we need to use the resources we have, removing bureaucratic barriers to responsible and sustainable mining.
that is why it is good that the permitting deadlines have been reduced, but mining is not sustainable, of course, because it is not growing.
i am pleased that as a social democrat, there are high standards for occupational safety and the environment in this area.
but recycling is sustainable.
we have these raw materials, of course, which are essential for the conversion to renewable energy.
so of course we need less energy and less raw materials, and i think the benefits are really huge.
anyone who thinks that prices of renewable energy will fall forgets that china in its geopolitical game can easily raise prices whenever they want.
the decommissioning of nuclear power and the utopian dream of 100 percent renewable energy gave china open targets.
that is why it is so important that this mining is carried out in an environmentally and socially sustainable way.
we're going to break down metals in a way that respects the environment.
i have worked hard to ensure that this legislation which we are voting on today takes all this into account, that we have proper environmental testing, that we respect the rights of indigenous peoples - not least the sami people in sweden and finland - and that we are already taking the necessary steps to reduce our dependence on these minerals, just as we are going to reduce our dependence on energy.
unfortunately, my own swedish government has opposed environmental testing and indigenous rights.
if we are to succeed in the transition, if we are to succeed in having an ecologically and socially sustainable breakthrough, it must be both fair, environmentally friendly and based on democratic decisions.
mr president, i consider this agreement on the sustainability of the extraction and supply of critical raw materials to be very important.
so i'm very happy that we're supporting a lot more recycling of existing materials in this proposal, that we're increasing that target to 25 percent, that we're supporting it more than another new mining, and that, for me, that means we're not going to export as much electronic waste to africa and other countries where it can kill young children.
thanks to parliament, the agreement with the council provides for faster licensing procedures for extraction, better recycling and waste management policies and a wider list of essential raw materials.
besides the important trade and environmental aspects that this agreement covers, we are stepping up the game in strengthening our resilience and fostering our priorities in a divided world with many challenges to come.
– mr president, honourable members, the debate today testifies how important it is to hold russia accountable, also when it comes to the devastating environmental consequences of its war of aggression against ukraine.
i trust and welcome that you will continue to keep environmental damages caused by the war on your political agenda.
numerous challenges will remain to hold perpetrators accountable but the eu, as an international forerunner on climate and environmental protection, should definitely play a role in this process.
the eu stands ready to continue to support the ukrainian administration to make sure the recovery is as sustainable as it can be in this precarious situation.
we are writing the 657th day of the aggressive war launched by russia, ukraine has suffered huge human losses, millions of people have been forced to leave their homes, but what is less talked about is the silent victim of the war: the environment that is unmovingly tolerating the cruel everyday.
in the european union and in many countries, there is a huge emphasis on environmental protection, the green transition, sometimes in ridiculous ways trying to change our daily lives, all by highlighting the harmful effects on the environment.
maintaining war requires enormous resources, massive fuel consumption, missile attacks, explosions, burning buildings, factories, air and soil pollution, heavy metals and toxic substances entering the air and water, destroying the ecosystem, which will take decades to restore.
with peace, we can prevent terrible disasters, such as the explosion of the nova kahovka dam, which caused immeasurable environmental damage.
in times of social inequality, economic turmoil, climate change and war, the german government is imposing a brutal brake on the future on all eu countries.
and what's going on at the world climate conference in dubai?
the goat was made a gardener when the fossil energy kings could present themselves as the saviors of the climate.
the major oil and gas companies have recorded record profits of more than 200 billion euros in 2022. and as long as they make even a single cent from fossil fuels, they'll continue to block climate change.
we have been working very closely with your team to make sure that we would advance in the digital transition and environmental adaptation, and i would like to thank, in particular, teresa ribera, who was an excellent partner for making sure that in cop we recorded success.
i would like to thank you for advancing social and economic justice, be it in the field of new electricity market design, which i believe will bring us low energy prices across europe, and the significant progress we achieved in the directive to fight violence against women.
the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment.
it is the one that is eroding democracies, the one that is outlawing political parties, the one that attacks the separation of powers, the one that silences critical media while undermining the european project, the one that is slowing down the ecological transition and putting women's and lgbtq rights at stake, as is happening in spain.
this is a higher than usual figure, which highlights our commitment to the major transformations that our union needs and in particular to the reindustrialisation of europe and the strengthening of its open strategic autonomy, as well as to the progress of the ecological transition and social and economic justice.
this is a higher than usual figure, which highlights our commitment to the major transformations that our union needs and in particular to the reindustrialisation of europe and the strengthening of its open strategic autonomy, as well as to the progress of the ecological transition and social and economic justice.
this is a higher than usual figure, which highlights our commitment to the major transformations that our union needs and in particular to the reindustrialisation of europe and the strengthening of its open strategic autonomy, as well as to the progress of the ecological transition and social and economic justice.
as you know, last may the council adopted conclusions on the social dimension of a sustainable europe for youth and noted that young people are one of the forces that give strength to our societies and are also drivers of change.
the council conclusions on the social dimension of a sustainable europe for youth, adopted in may of this year, stated that living and housing conditions are essential prerequisites for young people to develop their own lives and live sustainably.
however, the risks of housing exclusion and poverty have increased for vulnerable and low-income households, especially when coupled with energy poverty risks.
this has not escaped anyone, but the european union is fully responsible for these daily tragedies, because your pseudo-ecological fanatics have excluded millions of homes from the private rented market, which are no longer accessible, because your zero-rate policy has led to a real estate overheating.
in france alone, 70 billion a year would be needed for energy renovation of our buildings.
without the political will and a shared platform for cooperation, it will be a waste – it will further deepen the gaps and lack of interoperability.