and yet, with war having returned to our continent, with dwindling energy supplies and inflation rising, it is easy to fall into the warped narrative of eurosceptics.
in the current global economic context, we cannot waste this opportunity.
the single market is also instrumental to reach the objective of climate neutrality by 2050. the eu needs to be a front-runner in the green transition and make sure that fit for 55 is fully implemented.
the eu needs a new, long—term plan and a vision for how the single market can be a strong and sustainable engine for jobs, entrepreneurship, and sustainable growth over the next 30 years to come.
similarly, consumers can be assured that companies operating in the single market, that they respect high labour standards, that they respect the environment.
and the single market plays a crucial role in our efforts to tackle climate change, ensure clean energy sources and developing digital technologies.
for a single market that is fairer, where competition is the rule and where sustainability is promoted.
if we are serious about climate targets and emissions reductions, we cannot continue to pretend that the 32.7 million tonnes of waste we exported from the eu in 2020 and the related emissions do not affect us beyond our borders.
i therefore fully support the tightening of the rules on the transport and management of waste, which must be in line with environmental requirements, and the introduction of appropriate penalties for illegal trade, which is one of the most widespread environmental crimes.
the commission will also be able to use the eu recovery plan to support the circular economy in the eu, while ensuring that waste that cannot be recycled can be efficiently used as an energy source.
this will help us address the growing problem of child sexual abuse in games and create a safer online environment.
therefore, a resolution that goes in the direction of strengthening user protection is an important step in building a safe online environment for all users.
of course, risks must be checked, they must be contained, they must be controlled, but i think that with action such as the one we are taking forward we can put a value on a sector which creates a lot of jobs, creates opportunities and which must be one of our areas of commitment in europe to have a healthy and safe gaming environment for everyone.
therefore, in addition to resolve the current situation, we also have to consider long—term sustainable solutions to the structural causes of these shortages, as i said in my first statement.
we're promoting more sustainable farming.
it's a pity, we should try to maintain, to rebuild this kind of agriculture, because it's these mixed farms that are more sustainable.
animal welfare, carbon farming practices rewarded by eco-schemes should improve the situation.
but sustainable farming, animal welfare is very strongly supported in the common agricultural policy.
this is really a vital support for sustainable farming that guarantees well-being.
i’ve been most disappointed with some of our colleagues and even more upset that unacceptable illegal wrongdoings of individual members of the european parliament have already taken away the much needed political energy and public attention from issues that truly matter for europe and europeans, such as our commitment, support and unwavering dedication to the just fight of ukraine and its brave people against the russian aggressors.
i have been present at dozens of debates in this house where the import of russian gas has been promoted over the security interests of europeans, where there has been an incredibly naive approach to dictatorships like russia and china, and where far too much of the energy of foreign policy has been spent on differentiating itself from the united states and, incidentally, being very anti-american in the whole approach to foreign policy.
energy policy has become security policy and industrial policy has become foreign policy.
solar and wind power are no longer just producing green energy, they are producing energy of freedom.
after all, today we face war in ukraine, enormous increases in energy and food prices.
they should undertake genuine negotiation to find a sustainable and peaceful settlement that would ensure fair and lasting peace and stability in the region.
the mobilisation of european funds will be conditional on concrete measures that must directly and effectively help, in particular, vulnerable households and smes facing high energy prices.
these include measures to increase energy efficiency, diversify energy supplies and invest in renewable sources.
madam president, the goal of a total reduction in emissions from passenger transport is indeed a huge contribution to the climate and at the same time a strong stream of modernisation in road transport with benefits for air quality, noise and public health.
it is crucial that this critical industry also meets strict environmental protection standards.
the principle of non-harm to the environment must remain a principle of just transition.
madam president, i would like to ask whether this european directive on emission reductions has been seen by any technician or is it written only by non-governmental activists and officials, because any technically educated person would condemn the pressure to reduce emissions to below the limits of what is physically possible.
i'm just reminding you that the european union produces only 8% of global co2 emissions, and of that 8% only 13% comes from the automotive industry.
that means that if the whole world doesn't start reducing emissions, my friends, europe simply won't survive.
mr. chairman, the fight against climate change is the largest publicly funded project of humanity.
while removing one tonne of co2 through the emissions trading system costs less than eur 100, switching to zero-emission cars costs the same or up to ten times more.
let's reduce emissions, but where it's most efficient.
mr president, (inaudible words) according to eurostat, transport emissions have increased by almost a fifth since 1990. the automotive industry today depends on imports of chips from taiwan, batteries from china, cobalt and lithium from other third countries.
this transition will require massive investment, retraining and sustainable business plans and must take place in this decade, which is of course affected by the war in ukraine and rising energy prices.
the next item is the debate on the following items: oral question to the council on the eu priorities for the 67th session of the un commission on the status of women, by robert biedroń, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-000004/2023 b9-0011/2023) the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union and to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the union.
madam president, the shift from fossil fuels to low-carbon technologies is increasing demand for extraction of non-traditional raw materials.
however, the two cases differ fundamentally in terms of greenhouse gas emissions.
we need to identify the most strategically important raw materials, boost investment and coordinate supply and demand in the member states in line with the highest environmental standards, restore sustainable extraction where possible, shorten permitting processes and mobilise public and private investment, including by facilitating access to european funding.
if the directive is indeed successfully implemented and the energy efficiency of buildings is substantially improved, this will mean less emissions of harmful substances into the air in the future, substantial energy savings and, in the years to come, a building boom and new opportunities for the business sector.
the proposal does not provide a good rationale for introducing energy efficiency rules for almost all buildings.
we should focus on those renovations that provide the greatest energy savings at the lowest cost.
according to the economist (what is the cheapest way to cut carbon?, 2021), it is also not effective to introduce energy efficiency rules for all buildings.
for some, the cost of removing co2 emissions is seven times higher than removing co2 emissions through the eu emissions trading system.
these are three important legislative projects for climate protection, and i thank everyone who has contributed to the fact that we now have such good compromises here, within the epp, of course, above all jessica polfjärd, norbert lins and cristian bușoi.
we said it was about climate action.
climate change is not only a burden, but also a great advantage.
perhaps when translating the final version, one can once again make sure that effort is not actually loaded with... (interruption of the debate) yeah, but maybe we can find a good word for climate action in the other languages.
secondly, i would like to stress once again what mr norbert lins said on the subject of sustainable forestry.
a forest that is managed sequesters more co2, and we also create wood as a renewable resource.
that is why we should support forestry workers in sustainable forestry.
i would have liked to have seen the legislative act on a climate-neutral economy presented together with fit for 55 on thursday.
among them we will adopt the effort sharing regulation, a key piece, as we have said, because it will regulate 60% of greenhouse gases and will have an impact on european transport, buildings or agriculture.
it also maintains the european commission's target of reducing emissions by 40% in all these areas covered by the effort sharing regulation by 2030. why is this regulation we pass tomorrow important?
first, because the impact of climate change is a reality.
thirdly, it allows us to take steps forward towards a just transition, with important clauses that incorporate a social dimension alongside the climate dimension.
it’s very important that climate action is looked at in the long term with the 2050 climate neutrality target in mind.
under the agreement, eu countries will have to cut emissions by 40% compared to 2005 levels in sectors such as buildings, road transport, agriculture and waste, which are currently not regulated under the bloc’s carbon market, the eu emissions trading scheme.
together, these sectors are responsible for 60% of the eu’s greenhouse gas emissions.
renew europe is pleased that the 2030 targets and trajectories are ambitious enough to reduce co2 emissions even if we see mounting challenges with the percentage-based reductions.
the climate fund will, with the council, deliver the climate and therefore my group will support the important part of the fit for 55 package.
the most important thing is that the reduction path towards the 2030 targets has been stepped up, and so that we have closed this loophole that the commission had found to link to land use, so that it has disappeared, and that we have tightened the possibilities of the countries or limited the possibilities of the countries to postpone the reduction of greenhouse gases.
that is the simplest way to describe the european climate package.
the climate crisis is a threat to our survival.
not only help the climate, but also help create new jobs.
help lower our energy bills, help protect our freedom.
freedom from importing fossil fuels, but also freedom for each and every one of us to be able to generate energy at home.
because we need nature to save the climate.
it's the best way to capture carbon from the atmosphere.
it will therefore be important for citizens, but also for us in the european parliament, to help seize the opportunity that climate protection presents.
the discussion of nuclear in our future energy mix has become more intense in the past few months, and my responsibility is to provide technology-neutral solutions.
the international energy agency has published a study that we will have a huge problem this summer and at the latest in the autumn to replenish the gas reserves in europe, unlike last year, where we still did it through russian natural gas and through liquefied natural gas (lng).
the energy agency has made specific proposals on this.
we have heard in the proposals that we need more energy infrastructure a deepening ; but we have seen that there is not a single transnational infrastructure in the resilience fund of the big eu programme.
one last question: you referred to energy efficiency.
member states have not agreed to the binding energy efficiency target.
actually, the first warning that russia can manipulate our energy markets was obvious already in 2009, and since then, the european union has financed cross-border energy infrastructure that allowed us to diversify away from russian gas fields.
the energy agency has certified a gap of 57 trillion cubic meters.
– the international energy agency has been a great help, and we have used their analytics to design our policy proposals.
one of their new headline proposals is to prioritise energy savings because it was only 2021 when we received 155 billion m³ russian gas.
yes, in the year since the war in ukraine began, the energy map of europe has been completely rewritten.
do you also consider renewal and support, if appropriate, as a matter of course under strict environmental conditions, as also one of the options to fill this existing gap in the missing gas volumes?
on the other hand, there are some environmental considerations that have closed existing gas production sites in europe.
so all these global outreach procedures we have done and despite that, we still believe that to calm down the global markets, we have to prioritise also energy savings because there will not be enough new capacities coming to the market this year to replace the lost russian volumes.
we have to keep in mind that if russia is not able to sell this gas to anybody, then it means that they are venting or flaring this gas in their oil fields when it is a side product, and that also causes climate warming.
so this is also not only manipulation of our energy markets, but a very negative decision to create global warming, and as such, it impacts a wider region, not only europe.
– methane is a very potent greenhouse gas and we have to lead by example.
well, there are some activities that in the energy sector that actually do not demand additional investments, it is just the issue of awareness.
and we are planning to pilot some projects that we call ‘you capture, we buy’, because in the energy sector a large share of methane could be tackled with almost no cost.
mr president, commissioner, the energy crisis we are experiencing has left millions of households and small businesses in a very difficult situation, practically on their knees, unable to pay their energy bills.
and while this is happening, the energy companies have been hitting the jackpot, with absolutely exceptional profits.
so my question is this: given the proposal you have just put forward, which does not touch the pricing system and remains marginal, what measure or measures do you hope to take to protect households and small businesses in the coming winter, rather than continue to give the energy companies the jackpot?
and this will help customers benefit more directly from the lower cost of renewable generation.
and so something happened, because last july the president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen, came here to this house, to this parliament, to say that the marginalist market was not a market adapted to combat rising energy prices and therefore had to be changed.
in my view, in order to have energy security, we have to reduce our energy dependence on russia and also reduce the financing of the offensive war.
my question is: how much money did we offer in 2022 to putin and his offensive war in order to cover our energy needs?
and several of these sanctions also covered the energy sector.
– i agree that we have to be ambitious, and i agree that renewables are our home-grown energy source that allows us, step by step, to stabilise the energy prices.
basically we will see the outcome in the upgraded national energy and climate plans because member states already implement what is not agreed yet.
but i hope that member states, by renewing their national energy climate plans, are opting for the higher end of ambition.
on top of that there are financing tools for member states to support renewable investments.
there are available funds to strengthen the grids, and there is public acceptance right now also to grant some shorter and simplified permitting for renewable installations, because unless we do so, there is no alternative to gas, no green alternative.
let’s remember the clean energy for all europeans package back from 2019. now, there were important elements like the energy communities, like prosumers.
because this could be the decisive year for the people to really take the energy freedom into their hands.
we call on both sides to proceed without any further delay with the negotiation on a peace treaty towards reaching long and lasting, sustainable peace.
on the contrary, it will generate demand for low- and medium-skilled employees in the renewable energy and energy efficiency sectors, with 75% of jobs for workers and technicians in 2050. the outcome depends on how effectively europe will introduce skill policies and here an anticipatory-based approach will be crucial.
to succeed, we need adequate financial resources, massive investments into upscaling and rescaling of workers, creation of smes, friendly environment and removing of still-existing administrative obstacles will be the key elements of success.
the next item is the debate on the following items: oral question to the council on combating discrimination in the eu long-awaited horizontal anti-discrimination directive tabled by juan fernando lópez aguilar on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000010/2023 b9-0013/23) the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union and to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the eu.
these events contribute to a climate of growing internal tension and polarisation.
that is the only way to ensure social cohesion and the sustainability of major and urgently needed reforms.
we engaged in frequent contacts at all levels of the cambodian government throughout the year, where we discussed the constraints, legal and otherwise, of the political environment at all meetings, including at high level, especially in relation to opening space for the upcoming parliamentary elections.
we urgently need to restore nature and we need to help farmers switch to a small-scale, sustainable, plant-based and healthy diet.
we have a great beekeeping association that was the initiator of the honey breakfast, so that for decades in slovenia every third friday young people learn about biodiversity, the role of bees.
i think that we must also be moderate in our regulations, respect the rules, go in the direction of giving farmers the possibility of having resistant varieties, adopt this legislation, have technical solutions within the framework of precision agriculture, have other solutions that have proved to be appropriate in agro-ecological methods and that farmers are also applying.
this citizens' initiative aims to phase out synthetic pesticides, restore biodiversity and support farmers in this transition.
who's going to be against preserving biodiversity?
a very clear call for action in the context of another successful environmental citizens' initiative.
the introduction of the new rules is also an adaptation of the legal environment to the current market situation, in particular related to technical progress and the development of new technologies, as well as the increasing popularity of online sales.
the result of this little theatre is yet another waste of time in what could have been a step forward in protecting the rights of children and families with the same parents, thanks to a well-reasoned discussion, a constructive comparison where, i repeat, the different sensitivities had to converge and where the main problem in our specific case would have emerged, namely the lack of legislation and the attempt to harmonize a rule in all states.
i believe that a better solution is to incorporate environmental protection commitments into free trade agreements with third countries.
after taking care of himself, one of the highest goals is to start taking care of his family, his loved ones, the environment, his country, as one of the highest goals you can have.
and by that i don't mean that i deny or don't believe that the future is green technology, that it's less dirty, that it's renewable energy.
we have rightly set ourselves high targets with the emissions trading scheme.
how can citizens who are struggling with high energy and food prices today trust democracy and the rule of law when, for example, in my country, slovakia, the governor of the national bank is a man convicted of corruption.
today, in many parts of europe, people face high energy bills, high food prices, and daily news of corruption.
i am glad that in slovakia we have dealt with high energy prices by tracking them down, while in slovakia we are fighting corrupt politicians, which has resulted in many politicians being jailed.
what happened when we were dependent on chinese medical supplies is happening now with the energy crisis we're going through.
china is accumulating and consuming fuel and causing price rises, while in europe we are struggling to increase our energy independence.
the high-level dialogues on economy and trade, on environment and climate and on digital are valuable platforms for the engagement.
we need to strengthen european resilience and strategic autonomy and we need to further develop renewable sources, but this must go hand in hand with the development of electricity storage.
the current wind weather in europe is producing megawatts of energy that we cannot use, but without storage, we will lack it later.
the price of hydrogen must be competitive and investments need the best possible return horizon, so not only will accelerating the development of photovoltaics, wind energy increase europe's energy security, but battery storage and hydrogen deserve the same attention and support.
as you rightly said, the ipcc report made it very clear a few weeks ago that the damage and irreversible losses caused by climate change have increased significantly.
and that's why the effects of climate change are no longer a problem for some future generation, but they're a problem here and now.
we have made historic climate decisions in the european parliament this week.
they are urgently needed because the ipcc has also made clear that already more than three billion people live in regions of the world that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change.
instead of meeting the 1.5 degree target, we are moving towards 3 degrees of global warming with the current global targets.
at the same time, every degree increases the risk of tearing irreversible climate tipping points where we don't know what's going to happen next.
but beyond that, scientists agree: to make the effects of climate change as manageable as possible, substantial and lasting savings are needed as soon as possible and at least within this decade.
we cannot and will not stop at climate policy, but we must continue.
the climate crisis is growing into a climate catastrophe.
the solution is to have the sun on every roof, to harness the wind that blows, to harness the energy of the earth that we walk on, and to stop throwing logs at them.
the solution is to give energy back to the people and make it in everyone's interest that not only future generations, but we ourselves, have a chance at a normal life.
of the 15 massive ecosystem tipping points that will be exceeded at two degrees, some of them are dangerously within sight.
the ipcc finds that all pathways that effectively limit warming depend on some quantity of carbon removal.
many carbon—removal interventions are already well known: strict protection of forest, agroforestry, peatland rewetting, holistic grazing.
we critically need to avoid tendencies where the role of carbon storage in ecosystem is purposefully devaluated only to further justify the mass use of forest biomass.
this has caused an increase in energy and other input prices that these companies are having difficulty coping with.
in addition to the consequences of the pandemic, the war in ukraine, energy prices are also burdened by an ageing population and relatively expensive green policies, which together will lead to an increase in public spending of more than three percent of gdp per year.
these concern the area of domestic reforms, particularly when it comes to rule of law, the strengthening of the judiciary, fight against organised crime and corruption, and strengthening of the independent media environment.
in this regard, let me give you one positive and rather good example that serbia has just introduced, which is a message on the electricity bill of all the people and citizens in serbia that highlights the eu grant support that was paid to those bills and to modernise the energy sector.
through the energy support package, the european union helps vulnerable families and small- and medium-sized enterprises to cope with the energy crisis, improves energy security and serbia’s transition towards green energy.’ this is on the bills of each and every household in serbia.
this waste and the resulting social assistance costs us far more than the investment in building their expertise or skills.
i think it is right to limit the cases where products that are harmful to the environment are labelled 'green'.
what started as a policy construct in 2009 on how the large scale burning of wood is sustainable and allegedly does not result in carbon emissions only continues with the recast of this directive.
the text strengthens the sustainability criteria on burning woody biomass yet it allows massive derogations.
with this directive, massive burning of wood will continue, and heavy subsidies will continue, and member states will still claim that they protect the climate by burning more and more of the wood.
we are burning down the forest whose biodiversity, resilience and capacity to withstand climate change are by no means renewable.
i have reservations about this legislation because the transition to renewable energy sources must have realistic targets so that it does not harm industry, jobs or even households.
the target of 42.5% of all energy in the eu coming from renewable sources by 2030 is too ambitious, but it is good for slovakia that it is not a mandatory quota for the states as well.
slovakia already has 90% of its emission-free electricity production, but it is produced mainly from nuclear energy, which unfortunately is not considered a green source in this legislation.
the conditions are good for the development of biomethane, which can replace up to 10% of natural gas consumption, but in this case it will be used mainly in transport, heating and the chemical industry, and not for energy production.
the basic premise for a faster transition to renewable energy sources will also be the simplification and acceleration of permitting procedures, which should also be addressed at the european level, while the legislation approved today will still leave the state with a lot of control over the permitting process, so i am skeptical whether it will be possible in slovakia, where its duration is three times longer than in hungary, for example.
from covid to the war in ukraine, inflation, the energy crisis, their messages are full of lies and manipulation.
this slowdown would lead to environmental degradation.
it would be more effective (for example, with tax policy) to focus on replacing old (most polluting) cars with modern cars rather than toughen up the limits on modern cars, since the emissions savings between euro 6 and euro 7 are not large, so the price difference is likely to be large.
the resources were later used to address the energy crisis and to ukraine.
the renowned bruegel institute identifies only european emissions trading as an appropriate european tax among the commission's proposals.
the consumer-friendly solution is a high-quality competitive environment that does not motivate manufacturers, such as long-replaced fax machines, to produce and store all spare parts and which, on the contrary, motivates manufacturers to reduce red tape.
it's a waste we can't afford anymore.
as a counter-legislator in the environment committee, i pointed out that we must strike a balance between legislation that will promote consumers' right to repair and ensure that new solutions are based on clear and stable legal frameworks and that the burdens imposed on producers are adequate and proportionate to their added value.
the commission will also consider the possibility of a new proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a union certification framework for carbon elimination (com(2022) 0672 c9-0399/2022 2022/0394(cod)) the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of this regulation.
not only do we limit emissions because we can't, but we also limit the capture of those emissions.
these carbon capture certificates, which will be rewarding for the effort, i think are a good way out of this.
however, i agree with the rapporteur of the agri committee that we must not risk replacing food farming with carbon capture farms.
i believe that since it is a matter of using scientific methods for calculating and binding carbon, it will be an objective and true calculation.
i also believe that such a move will support further research that could open up new possibilities for dealing with the negative effects of not only carbon but also other harmful emissions.
carbon certificates will allow funding for projects to reduce not only co2 but also other greenhouse gases, and that is why i support this proposal at the moment.
so i wholeheartedly thank all the various members that are on the verge of of ok’ing this proposal for taking this step and moving beyond ideology and really looking at what is necessary to, again, get to an additional piece in making more work of climate action.
the vote will be held on tuesday 21 november 2023.
the commission will also consider the possibility of a new programme to be implemented in the future, with the aim of promoting the development of a new programme of action to promote the development of the european union's biodiversity.
the recovery of the eel is therefore one of the commission’s key priorities under its fisheries and environmental policies.
in this context, the commission welcomes this report, which deals with important aspects of the protection and sustainability of the eu stock.
beyond these fisheries management measures, more needs to be done on the environmental side, in particular to tackle pollution and obstacles to migration coming, for instance, from hydropower.
therefore the implementation of the water framework directive, marine strategy framework directive, habitats directive and biodiversity strategy are so important.
i can reassure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the commission follows up with member states to improve the implementation of the eu regulation, as well as environmental legislation to ensure a future for the european eel and for those who depend on it for their livelihood.
the commission agrees with you that appropriate conservation and management measures for eels need to be truly comprehensive and need to take into account all three pillars of sustainability, namely environmental, economic and social impacts.
that is why, under the maritime action plan adopted in february this year, the commission asked member states to update the eel management plans in full coherence with environmental legislation and in the light of scientific advice.
finally, mr president, we also plan to organise a specific workgroup on eels with member states as requested in the context of the joint special group bringing together for the first time the environmental and fisheries ministries of the various member states at eu level.
this will increase the possibility of financing public assets such as education, healthcare and environmental protection.
the new packaging rules have the correct aim of reducing environmental pollution, but i believe they contain ineffective solutions through prohibitions and orders.
for example, the slovak environmental policy institute proposes: to tie the transport charges to the amount of waste and to separate it, if necessary, to the complexity of its recycling.
only 13% of slovak population pays a charge based on the amount of waste produced, so today we do not motivate people to reduce or separate the amount of waste.
pollinators are essential for the conservation of biodiversity, as well as for the economy and, in particular, for food production.
pollination has also been altered by climate change and temperature changes.
i also think it is important that we take into account the legislative work in progress, in particular the proposal for a regulation on the sustainable use of pesticides.
together with the proposals for nature restoration and the sustainable use of plant protection products, it forms a new deal for pollinators with the potential to reverse the decline.
you ask how the commission assesses the compliance of common agricultural policy (cap) strategic plans with the goals of the pollinators initiative, and how the current cap measures on biodiversity can help protect pollinators.
based on an assessment of the local conditions and needs, member states prepared a national cap strategic plans for the period 2023–2027, explaining how they will channel support to achieve the economic, environmental and social objectives of the cap.
the commission assessed how cap support can bring positive effects on pollination and ecosystem connectivity in the agricultural land.
the strategic plans have been in place in place since january, and they support numerous practices that bring benefits to biodiversity and pollinators.
enhanced conditionality with a range of environmental conditions to be met by all farmers receiving cap support now covers some 90% of all eu agriculture areas.
almost eur 100 billion – one third of the entire cap budget – is used to support the environmental and climate transition to 2027. ecoschemes make up at least 25% of the budget for direct payments, and rural development instruments allocate at least 35% of their budget to environmental practices supporting our organic farming and landscape features, reducing pesticide use, and conserving or restoring biodiversity on agricultural land.
member states can make adjustments in the plans to ensure the appropriate uptake of the interventions, while maintaining the overall level of environmental ambition.
in addition, ongoing research will enable a more system-based environmental risk assessment for pesticides and may allow further revisions of the risk assessment methodology.
we need to halt pollinator decline – and yes, commissioner, i agree – funds are very important, and we need more funds to encourage more, not only young people, but others, to invest their energy in helping nature.
we are committed to protecting nature, to making food available to pollinators, to protecting the soil that is their natural environment, and to growing plants without using chemicals that harm them and us.
it is a necessity for biodiversity and therefore for the preservation of agriculture.
to raise living standards in slovakia and in the eu, it is important that enough voters are also on the ballot: economic growth, which is a source of wealth needed for better health, education, public finances, debt and deficits, so that we do not experience the same collapse as greece in other countries, the effectiveness of the fight against climate change, so that we do not spend a lot of money on it and not achieve the results we want, the rule of law the basis from which everything is built, people's satisfaction for a very long time.
china is the world's biggest polluter with 27 percent of its carbon emissions, so we can't go around china fighting climate change.
we must make sure china takes responsibility and cuts down on that emissions.
the russian energy blackmail has taught us that countries that do not share our values use our dependencies against us.
– mr president, honourable members, certainly this very important topic would require maybe a little bit more time and a better psychological environment and not at 10 o’clock at night, when everybody is tired and the hemicycle is not very full.
there is no way to try to solve the climate issue without a strong engagement from china, because china is burning today more coal than the rest of the world together, and 90% of the new coal plants in the whole world are being built in china.
so if you want to solve the climate issue, count on china.
we asked china to act to address the root causes of this trade deficit, which has reached an astronomical figure of eur 400 billion a year and is not sustainable.
and then the discussion comes about climate change.
it’s true that today it is not us because we produce only 8% of the world’s emissions.
but if we have a look at the cumulated amount of emissions, it’s a different story.
in any case, it is in their own interest – because they have a strong pollution problem – that they have to reduce emissions.
we continue to pretend that we can cooperate with china, but even on the issues like the climate change, the ccp actions are destructive rather than constructive.
notably, the strong increase in recycling capacity to 25% of annual consumption and the recycling of strategic raw materials from waste streams.
this shows the commitment of those involved in the development of this act to environmental prioritisation.
environmental crisis, crisis of high prices, debt to continue studying in a specialization they are interested in, prices of apartments as cheap as beautiful terraced houses.
this new approach allows poachers to operate with impunity where they have been trampled on by the environment police.
the first item of the negotiations and of today's agenda is the council and commission statements, results of the 2023 united nations climate change conference in dubai, united arab emirates (cop28) (2023/3022(rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, at this cop we have taken a historic step in tackling the threefold planetary crisis together: climate change, pollution and biodiversity loss.
the completion of the first global emissions inventory has highlighted the necessary actions we must take to achieve this objective.
at this cop28, for the first time, a clear call has been made to abandon fossil fuels in energy systems in order to achieve the net zero emissions target by 2050. this is a significant step towards multilateralism.
the decision firmly recognises the urgent need to reach the greenhouse gas emission ceiling and achieve a minimum emission reduction of 43 per cent by 2030, followed by 60 per cent by 2035. this directly reflects our ambition to limit global warming, as i have pointed out, to 1.5°c.
we have also committed to tripling renewable energy and doubling energy efficiency by 2030. the final text also calls for accelerating efforts towards the progressive elimination of coal energy.
the achievement of the world's first emissions inventory highlights the need to continue to drive private investment towards climate action and to move away from funding that jeopardizes our shared prosperity.
cop28 represents an important step forward in global climate action, contributing to keeping the paris objectives within our reach.
this cop was fundamental for our climate ambition as it marked the first global stocktake under the paris agreement.
this is a historic agreement that keeps us on track with the goals of the paris agreement and a climate-neutral future in 2050. turning to the main outcomes, all parties agreed to first accelerate the transition away from fossil fuels this decade.
second, to take action to reduce global emissions by 43 % by 2030 compared to 2019 levels.
and third, set the world on a pathway to reaching net-zero emissions by 2050, in line with the best available science.
all parties have committed to tripling global renewable energy capacity and doubling the rate of energy efficiency improvements by 2030, as was proposed by the eu.
there is also an agreement to tackle methane and other non-co2 emissions in this decade and to phase out, as soon as possible, inefficient fossil fuel subsidies that do not address energy poverty or the just transition.
we have agreed on the final steps towards setting the new collective quantified goal on climate finance at next year’s cop.
cop28 pushed forward the reform of the international financial architecture to make it fit for purpose for addressing the climate emergency.
the final cop28 negotiated outcomes yesterday come on top of multiple agreements secured in the past two weeks, including the world climate action summit, attended by president von der leyen.
we, of course, stand ready in future negotiations to promote further ambition and to make sure we limit the worst impacts of climate change.
the outcome of the global stocktake has the european footprint with regards to, first, tripling the renewable energy capacity, second, doubling the rate of energy efficiency improvements by 2030, and close monitoring to tackle methane emissions by the end of this decade.
the european parliament is a key partner in european climate action, and so it is in implementing all the commitments made at cop.
i would like to recall that in our resolution adopted just before cop, we supported not only a tripling of renewable energy by 2030 and a doubling of energy efficiency, but also a tangible phase-out of fossil fuels as soon as possible, including by halting all new investments in fossil fuel extraction.
it is the first time fossil fuel production has been directly referenced in a un climate accord, representing a victory for the high ambition coalition of nations.
accelerate designation for go-to areas in order to increase fast the deployment of renewable energy.
how rising water levels are causing incredible damage to their societies, and they are in some really, really tough considerations because climate change is as severe as it is.
for example, we must now move away from fossil fuels, we must triple the amount of renewable energy, we must double energy efficiency.
we must urgently fight climate change.
mr. president, the signals from the climate conference speak in perfectly clear language.
three times more green renewables, twice as much energy efficiency by 2030. countries around the world clearly agreed.
and that's despite the really strong opposition from opec countries, countries that export oil and natural gas, which make money on climate destruction.
it's time to take this opportunity for europe and for developing countries to develop green energy, to create new jobs, not only to help the climate, but also to help our own security, to get rid of dependence on fossil fuel imports, to get rid of the high energy prices that have caused this dependence, to give the opportunity to small and medium-sized enterprises to develop innovative companies to give energy back to the people.
most countries want to protect the climate.
this was accompanied first by the epidemic, and then by the energy crisis caused by the russian war in ukraine.
i was involved, particularly in the energy, performance and buildings directive, i thought ambassador raúl fuentes did an excellent job, and while the epp would have serious concerns about internal matters in spain, that should not take from the good work that was done in completing many, many important files which will stand to the good of citizens in europe in the future.
as rapporteur, i am very pleased that we are going to adopt parliament’s position on the importance of domestic production, design of auctions, the role of imports, sustainability and geographical balance.
the main priority of the hydrogen bank is the development of renewable hydrogen in the medium and long term.
the transitional role of low-carbon hydrogen is inevitable, especially for some member states and specific sectors.