sweden took over the presidency of the council of the eu at a time of new crises, facing the security, energy and humanitarian crisis caused by the russian aggression against ukraine and still coping with the economic and social consequences of past crises.
the swedish presidency has set security, competitiveness, the green and energy transition and the defence of the rule of law as the eu's priorities for the next six months.
they should have equal opportunities for education and career development, and to live in an environment free of discrimination and hatred towards them.
it is therefore time to secure our supplies of strategic raw materials, including those needed for the ecological bifurcation.
indeed, continuing to stock abundant supplies of cobalt, lithium and rare earths on other continents, in the disastrous conditions we are experiencing, is social and ecological nonsense.
this is an important challenge, but we must bear in mind that such projects can only be envisaged if the highest social and environmental standards are applied.
if we are to succeed in the ecological bifurcation, the industrial policies we are pursuing here in this house must be acceptable and accepted by the people.
madam president, commissioner, minister, indeed, we need a new quality in our raw material policy, sustainability instead of pure exploitation.
thirdly, we have to create partnerships with third countries in real partnership so that we guarantee labour rights, environmental standards, and that our partners have also the possibility to add value in their production process so that they can profit in their development as well.
so sustainability instead of pure exploitation.
you highlighted the importance of labour rights and environmental standards.
how ironic it would be that the green transition itself turns out to fail some of the targets and objectives of the sustainable development goals.
to remind you those sdgs, decent work, reduced inequality and responsible production, and all of the sustainable goals that go with that.
i would also finish by reminding that the corporate sustainability due diligence directive will play a key role in this instrument in the future.
critical raw materials is one of the most important tools to serve this purpose, as without secure and sustainable access to the necessary raw materials, the ambition to become the first climate-neutral continent is at risk.
and it is also important to say that we cannot proceed with ensuring the next-age sufficient amounts of raw materials to the eu if we do not serve the environmental goals intact.
we have chosen a development based on green technologies, which wants energy for the future, and so we need lithium, rare earths, nickel, copper and cobalt.
and one thing: if we're going to build supply chain value, we need to look not just at environmental issues, but also at human rights.
so we need two: an efficient and economically sound circular economy model that ensures that the raw materials from our waste are reused.
the example of waste steel is illustrative, the use of which could meet over 60% of the steel needs in the european union.
this will require the transfer of advanced and sustainable mining and processing technologies that will bring jobs with minimal environmental impact to these countries and the raw materials we need at competitive prices and in the quantities we need.
we need to foster innovation by creating a business-friendly environment, including in particular by simplifying regulations and creating a level playing field for all companies, regardless of their size.
and finally, we have to remember that sustainable development is balanced development, so any action we take has to be inclusive and include not just the largest centres, but also rural and remote areas.
but i think that in these times of also, let's be clear, uncertainty for the future, we can remember the founding fathers, and we can remember the principle of the social market economy, to which we have added green motivations, the energy transition, as a foundation that can light our way.
the real theme of the debate should be more europe for more quality jobs, decent, higher wages, social justice and a sustainable economy for the benefit of all.
the small bee has brought together over a million people, citizens of the european union, who are aware of the importance of bees for biodiversity and our daily lives and health.
citizens are demanding a sustainable and resilient future and protection from pesticides in the air, soil and water.
the fact is, without bees, there is no sustainable agriculture and no healthy living environment.
the revised aviation emissions trading directive is an important part of the reduction of emissions into the atmosphere.
it is therefore essential to maintain and strengthen connectivity while making it environmentally and climate-friendly.
this directive will finally help aviation to do its fair share of reducing emissions and also of other climate challenges.
the key element will be the abolition of free allowances from 2026, which will lead to increased revenue from aviation emissions trading to support measures to reduce the climate impact of aviation.
after 15 years of aviation being included in the emissions trading system, we will also take non-carbon emissions into account for the first time.
these have at least as much of a negative impact as co2 emissions.
this includes the greenhouse effect of condensation trails from airplanes, which practically everyone can see in the sky.
i expect broad support for the legislative proposal when we vote tomorrow, as it delivers on the european union's climate ambitions, preserves european aviation connectivity and mobility, and also offers incentives for the development of advanced technologies that are essential for decarbonising the aviation sector, including in particular sustainable aviation fuels.
with the passage of this package of legislation, we are entering a new phase of our tightened climate policy, and in a very difficult situation: post-pandemic, in the midst of ongoing war and increasing pressure from immigration.
mr president, commissioner, the revision of the ets directive and the introduction of the cbam are two of the key pillars for achieving the 55% reduction in co2 emissions.
the creation of a social climate fund is also an important instrument for a fairer transition.
i understand the need to secure financial resources for the new climate fund, but the commission will have to ensure that these measures do not penalise the citizens, the last link in the chain, particularly those in the most vulnerable groups, who should be supported by the new fund.
the fit for 55 package, or 55% reduction in emissions, is clearly an ambitious and comprehensive response by the european union to the challenges of climate change, which threaten not only our environment and well-being, but also our lives.
as a member of itre, i contributed my share to the carbon border adjustment mechanism, or cbam.
it must ensure a fair price for carbon in the products we import into the european market and be a tool to encourage non-european countries and manufacturers to follow our high climate targets.
it must also be a safeguard against carbon dumping and ensure a level playing field for all on the market.
this must be followed by rapid and appropriate updating of legislation in line with the climate objectives set, the needs of european industry and the changes around us.
for a comprehensive and sustainable solution, the pact is the only answer with its effective solidarity mechanism catering specifically for search and rescue cases, we cannot keep improvising every time we are confronted with complex migration challenges.
it was the first such meeting after the entry into force of the partnership and cooperation agreement, which was concluded in 2018. this meeting helped to revive our dialogue on important regional and security issues and to set together a new ambition through a joint declaration on sustainable development, green transition, governance, regional connectivity and sustainable finance.
in particular, we talked about returns and readmissions, including involuntary returns, protection and forced displacement, anti-trafficking and sustainable reintegration.
as important trade partners, the eu and iraq should work together to strengthen bilateral trade relations and investments, including the production of renewable energy, and facilitate iraq's further integration into regional and global value chains.
this is a proposal by the high representative, josep borrell, following the frenzied and very problematic evacuation and exit from afghanistan during the summer of 2021, which brought to light some security deficiencies, such as not having a prepared own force from the european union to act quickly in a hostile environment.
the framework directive was supposed to protect water, restore ecosystems and reduce pollution by 2015. the result: by 2023, well half of the european union's rivers will not meet the minimum pollution standards.
in addition to the ecological crisis, there is the health crisis caused by exposure to these dangerous substances.
we must impose more drastic pollution thresholds and equip the control services with sufficient resources.
water is the messenger of climate change.
all the environmental and health measures that we have taken and are taking, they stand and fall on the unregulated areas that affect them.
as rapporteur for the review of the water directives, i know that we can protect the environment by using more resources and by making a solidarity contribution from the private sector.
we are now faced with the environmental and health consequences of the fact that there are over 20 000 chemicals registered and used daily in europe, while there are over 100 000 on the market.
so we need to prevent pollution at source and distribute the costs more equitably between the public treasury and the private sector.
geopolitical rivalry, political competition and of course new partners in the global south -- all of this is coupled with climate change, with pollution, with land use change, with biodiversity loss and with antibiotic resistance and many, many other stories.
i therefore appeal to you, mr prime minister, to make germany's efforts to bring about a ceasefire and an end to the war in ukraine even stronger, and to work together to find solutions for a future of peaceful and socially and environmentally sustainable development in ukraine and in all the countries of the european union.
we are also engaging with serbia to deliver on priorities under cluster 4, on the green agenda and sustainable connectivity.
our messages are clear: we expect serbia to align with eu policy on energy, unbundle its gas sector and diversify its energy supply.
the commission continues to help serbia with the implementation of the economic and investment plan for the western balkans, including support for gas interconnectors and the energy support package.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
commissioner sinkevičius, ladies and gentlemen, the increasing chemisation of the natural environment is one of the most demanding consequences of the lives of modern societies and of individuals and individuals associated mainly with industrial and agricultural production.
the zero pollution action plan provides for additional and strengthened commitments by the european union to an environment free of toxic substances.
we therefore need a legislative framework that will: firstly, ensure a timely response to the increasing presence of modern pollutants in the environment; secondly, strengthen cooperation and operational support at eu level; thirdly, allow polluters to contribute their fair share to the prevention and control of pollution; and fourthly, provide access to justice in cases where national authorities fail to comply with their obligations under the provisions of the water framework directive.
i am pleased that the amendments to the legislative proposal have the extremely broad support of the committee on the environment.
the latter is found in surface waters throughout europe, and pollution with this herbicide poses a major threat to aquatic life and causes unnecessary costs.
protected water means protecting human health, means protecting natural habitats and is an indispensable means of ensuring food security, especially in the light of the water supply crisis resulting from climate change with severe and prolonged dry periods.
ahead of this year's united nations water conference in new york, the union committed itself to achieving good status for all eu water bodies by 2027. at present, only 40 percent of surface water bodies are in good chemical or ecological condition.
as the deadline is practically around the corner, i hope that by the end of this session the european parliament will have reached agreement with the member states on further improvements to the existing legislative proposal and on the highest possible standards for the control of water pollution, which will make a significant contribution to ensuring human health and the natural environment.
i hope that we will strengthen our common ambitions and achieve common goals, recognising that good water management is important for the planet, for people and for economic, social and sustainable development.
they are needed for the swift rollout of the growth plan itself and attract private investments, promote sustainable economic growth, or to reduce pollution.
cooperation with türkiye in areas of joint interest continued in essential areas such as counter-terrorism, economy, energy, food security, migration and transport.
the eu has a strategic interest in a stable and secure environment in the eastern mediterranean, and in the development of a cooperative and mutually beneficial relationship with türkiye.
no doubt you are aware that we are taking numerous measures against illegal migrant trafficking as envisaged in the action plan from 2021. from a broader perspective, the pact on migration and asylum aims to establish a fair, efficient and more sustainable migration and asylum process, with full respect for human rights.
calls on the commission to develop a humanitarian diplomacy strategy in cooperation with the member states and to ensure its implementation by promoting international law and humanitarian principles; calls on the commission to continue to comply with the global humanitarian exemption standard established by the un security council and to adopt permanent humanitarian exemptions in its autonomous sanctions systems; the strategy expresses a strong consensus on the role of the triple nexus in the sedimentation of synergies between peace, sustainable development and humanitarian aid.
in this area, measures to tackle climate change and increase the resilience of communities are key.
building sustainable solutions through flexible, conflict-specific and multi-layered responses.
increasingly, this nexus approach will require a climate preparedness and anticipation dimension.
the commission supports the view that climate funding needs to prioritise the most vulnerable communities, meaning the localisation of strategies and partnership will be key.
by investing in green technologies, renewable energy and sustainable industries, we can really generate a wave of new employment opportunities.
as members of the european parliament, we have the power to shape politics and set the agenda for the next term, and that really means integrating sustainability into all aspects of our policymaking process.
it means considering the environmental impact of every decision we make, and by putting the ecological transition at the core of our policy agenda, we can lead the way in building a sustainable and prosperous future for generations to come.
eu legislation should encourage quality and sustainable job creation and favour investments with positive environmental and social impacts.
the decarbonisation of the european economy will create new jobs in a renewable energy and circular economy.
for us, the main principle that we should adhere to is sustainability, and it should be reflected in all areas of the economy, in the social sphere, but also, of course, in the environmental sphere.
and we should anticipate the challenges of the future with the very sustainability prism that the fellow reporter talked about, and also adopt plans for just transformation.
we have already discussed these plans in the czech republic in several endangered regions, in the endangered sectors, for example in energy.
achieving climate neutrality and a commitment to a sustainable and, in particular, equitable transition.
we have passed a number of legislation to protect the environment.
this poses a serious risk to food security, human health, quality of life and also to the functioning of natural ecosystem services.
the question is therefore: how do member states address the causes of the reduction in polluters, including light pollution?
in order to tackle the decline in pollinators as a result of climate change, intensive agriculture, pesticide use and pollution and degradation of the natural environment and habitats as much as possible, the eu's overall framework, or a comprehensive set of policy tools, has been available since 2018 as part of the so-called european union pollinator initiatives.
with regard to the protection of pollinators against harmful chemicals, i would like to know whether the commission is prepared to continue the transition to comprehensive, systematic environmental risk assessments for the wider range of insects, pollinators, and to empower the agencies concerned to do so, taking into account the limitations of the current authorisation procedure for pesticides and biocides.
europeans must become more self-sufficient in all areas, especially in energy.
in particular, when it comes to energy, we need all the technologies that can ensure resilience, reliability and consistency in the supply of competitive, low-carbon electricity, which we finally acknowledged in this very moment in the house when we voted on net-zero industry actu.
the fact is that all member states' efforts in all forms of technology need to be increased in order to achieve carbon neutrality in the eu by the end of 2050. even small modular reactors, called smrs, can play a key role in global policy to decarbonise our economies, as they offer highly flexible steam and electricity generation regardless of weather conditions.
given the large investments in technology development in many countries, it is predicted that small modular reactors will become a commercially successful nuclear product by 2030. they will be used in particular for fossil fuel replacement, district heating, process heat for energy-intensive industries, seawater desalination and hydrogen production.
nuclear power now accounts for 25% of electricity produced in the eu and 50% of low-carbon electricity.
energy experts in light of the transition to a low-carbon society predict that electricity consumption will double by 2060. small modular reactors are highly compatible with renewable energy sources.
we must promote partnership and alliance in the eu and create a reliable environment for the new airbus.
public surveys show that support for low-carbon nuclear energy is increasing and growing, particularly among young people.
not so much because of the price of electricity as it is because of environmental goals.
moreover, more and more member states see nuclear energy in their energy mix.
today at 15 o'clock i looked at the electricity map platform and i saw that france had only 33 percent renewable energy and 94 percent low-carbon, mostly nuclear, only 41 grams of co2 emissions per kilowatt of electricity produced, while germany had 408 grams of co2 emissions with 59 percent renewable energy and 62 percent low-carbon.
the latter will only be achieved if all low-carbon resources are treated appropriately and equally.
– madam president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, good evening and thank you for this timely opportunity to discuss smr technology and its potential for the clean energy transition.
the starting point for this discussion is the union’s climate policy framework, where we have together set ambitious targets.
given the urgency of reducing emissions by 55% by 2030, our legal frameworks to promote renewables and energy efficiency have been updated and now need to be implemented as a matter of priority.
at the same time, all low carbon energy sources will be needed in their full potential, especially in the longer term perspective, including 2040, 2050 and beyond.
for that, some 10 eu member states are currently exploring the economic viability, safety and sustainability of small modular reactors in particular.
on 6 november, on the occasion of this year’s european nuclear energy forum, i had the opportunity to discuss in detail with the stakeholders the readiness of launching this partnership as an eu industrial alliance on smrs, so i am working towards its launch at the earliest possibility, together with my colleagues in the commission.
second, in the coming decades, the nuclear energy sector will require highly educated staff to upskill and reskill european workers in the nuclear field.
nuclear energy technologies remain an important part of the eu stabilisation pathway and policy mix.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in our efforts to decarbonize the european economy, we must always bear in mind that the choice of energy sources is the responsibility of each member state.
but if there is technology with the potential to produce clean energy safely and affordably for consumers, this technology should be considered in the equation.
the existing prototypes are a driving force, especially in terms of safety, waste reduction and efficiency.
european companies can play an important role in this technology, which can also help third countries reduce the environmental impact on energy production.
we have promised that our european union will be climate neutral by 2050 and, by 2030, cut our emissions by 55 %.
at the same time, energy prices are skyrocketing and our society, traffic and industries are asking for more electricity than ever before.
small molecular reactors (smrs) are interesting as they can produce a large amount of low carbon electricity.
they are interesting for investments as they can be deployed incrementally to match increasing energy demand.
smrs can be sited on the location not suitable for all renewable or not suitable for larger nuclear plants.
the european union must be the frontrunner not only on renewable energy, but also when it comes to the new clean technologies and research and development in the union.
this is how we cut emissions, stay competitive and stop our dependence on third countries.
we have to do our part in the european union, and we hope the dubai climate conference will make a success of all the commitments on the climate change.
while i'm an advocate for nuclear technology and especially innovative technologies, i also realize that neither nuclear technology at all nor small modular reactors are a miraculous solution to our energy problems.
the nuclear industry, like all energy industries, or the industry as a whole, faces similar problems, such as a lack of production and development capacity, limited access to raw materials, and a lack of personnel both for industrial work and for the implementation of complex nuclear infrastructure projects.
one in ten young people in the european union spent more than 40% of their income on housing as of 2021. the pandemic, conflicts in the european neighbourhood and rising energy and basic living costs have further worsened the situation of young people already exposed to low-paid jobs.
this will prevent hidden influence and ensure a more equal working environment for all candidates.
the joint defence investment programme will thus have to eliminate duplication and unreasonable spending and ensure that we have the defence capabilities appropriate to the modern and modern security environment, while preventing the overloading of our budgets by integrating at eu level.
news from dubai is coming from the success of climate multilateralism in light of the serious climate and environmental challenges we face.
the climate and energy commitments of world leaders must become legally binding, as the only way to consolidate our path towards achieving the objectives of the paris agreement.
in this path to tackling the global climate crisis, i would like developed countries to fulfil their moral and historical duty and to provide adequate financial resources to support developing countries and regions and vulnerable groups in their fair and equitable adaptation to climate change.