the european market, the common market, is also trying to influence global markets with its climate rules, its labour rights rules, its human rights rules.
and many of the climate challenges/crises we face will have to be addressed together.
there are open questions which we must tackle at community level, going beyond what are still national egoisms, such as fiscal union, defence union, common labour costs, a common industrial and energy policy, and a european migration policy.
we need to strengthen trade in services, and we need to create a digital market in the eu that can face the climate crisis and global competition.
there was a time when garbage and waste were simply thrown into the sea or dumped in the woods according to the principle 'what is not seen, does not exist', but today we know better.
waste is a valuable resource that can be used over and over again.
there is a risk that european waste ends up in countries lacking both the rules and the competence to deal with the waste with dangers to the environment and to human health, and also with the threat of corruption that undermines responsible management.
the eu is a major player in the waste trade.
new, stricter rules on international trade in waste are needed.
it can only be smart, profitable, job-creating, resource-saving and simply sustainable.
growth will also come from reforming our energy market.
to make it future-proof, efforts must be made to reconcile energy security with the green transition.
but also to an energy crisis and to an economic downturn.
in the 80s and the 90s, it increasingly became a matter of fighting climate change.
it is a horrific war, which has displaced a third of ukraine’s population and destroyed half of the country’s energy infrastructure.
the plan to reduce emissions by 55% by 2030 is vital to reach co2 neutrality by 2050 and live up to the goals set out in the paris agreement.
we also look forward to beginning the work of reforming the european electricity market design, since energy from the right sources and the right price is the foundation of the green transition.
if european companies are to produce the energy and make the batteries, the electric cars and the fossil—free steel of the future, they all need good conditions to compete internationally.
today, we are spending significantly less on research and development than the us and china, and high energy prices may drive investments away from europe.
together, we will seek solutions to meet the challenges that i have outlined here today – to security, to climate, to competitiveness, to the rule of law and more.
secondly, we must continue to overcome the energy crisis – a consequence of the war in ukraine being felt deeply by citizens and businesses across europe.
russia’s effort to blackmail us by weaponising energy and manipulating our dependency on russian fossil fuel imports has failed thanks to our solidarity.
thanks in no small part to our work to accelerate permitting procedures, we deployed twice as much renewable energy capacity as expected last year, but there is still much to be done.
work is ongoing to operationalise the eu energy platform to enable the joint purchase of gas, and i had the pleasure of chairing the first meeting of the steering board yesterday.
at the same time, we need to further scale up renewables, which are critical for our long-term energy independence, as well as for the green transition.
as president von der leyen said last week, we should aim to double our renewable energy capacities this year again.
this brings us to the third priority of the swedish presidency: furthering our work to meet our climate ambitions.
we also count on the swedish presidency to make as much progress as possible on other european green deal proposals, including the zero pollution package and the proposal on packaging and packaging waste.
it’s a young government and that means also a government full of energy and motivation.
we showed ambition and an ambitious approach to climate change in the last months.
now, the energy crisis will be the end of the marginalist system.
mr prime minister, give a sincere commitment to the european parliament that the swedish presidency will continue to lead the fight against climate change.
climate change and putin's war require a clear and decisive commitment to renewable energy, because the longed-for strategic autonomy will only become a reality when the 27 get rid of the heavy slate of fossil fuels.
you may say that, at least on climate, the swedish democrats, who deny the gravity of the challenge, did not dictate the agenda, and the priority given to the green energy transition is indeed welcome.
the priorities you have put on the table are priorities on which we expect concrete responses and work that goes beyond the emergency response, but look at the next 20 or 30 years and the structural future of the european union, starting with the hottest, the hottest issue, that of energy.
it is true that, on the one hand, as vice-president šefčovič has said, the winter is passing better than we would have expected, but in my opinion it is perhaps more due to the chance and the grace of a less rigid climate than to the effectiveness of the responses we have put in place in these months.
i am thinking here of the need to make the internal market more sustainable and to make it more transparent.
only then will we be able to make the situation on the continent more sustainable.
to this can be added eu decisions on forestry, hunting, energy, fuels, quotas, migration and asylum.
only the left party and the environment party are against sweden changing its security policy.
it is about rearranging the whole energy policy so that we can cope with the climate change, with electrification with clean electricity a massive investment in building new swedish nuclear power together with other countries in europe that are also going that way, so that we can become completely fossil free in time.
let's just say it's good that the united states is back in the climate work.
basically, no global climate action can work unless the united states, and eventually india and china, are part of the global climate action.
the eu's position as the world's leading climate hub is a good start.
on the energy side: we have a fifty percent increase in wind energy in sweden in the coming years.
we have a strong increase in nuclear energy in sweden in the coming decades.
it will mean stronger and increased support for ukraine, a wholehearted focus on eu competitiveness, delivering the last of the climate package, fit for 55, and upholding the rule of law throughout the eu.
but also that we can finally move from lockdowns to creating a common, functioning and sustainable european migration policy.
sweden is well known internationally for its successful work on climate, gender equality and issues relating to democracy and the rule of law.
but back home in sweden, you've obviously abandoned the climate goals.
in it, the sweden democrats say that all eu climate policy must be negotiated with them before it goes ahead.
are these just beautiful words or should sweden continue to lead the climate change?
it's about the fate of the climate.
we have the biggest climate package in the history of the eu on the table, but half of the proposals are not yet in place.
while the government at home is wavering, the country is now set to try to push through a package of legislation aimed at securing climate neutrality by 2050. it's about the migration.
for eight years we in this house have fought against the council to pass legislation on migration in order to have a sustainable, legally secure and humane refugee and migration policy.
to speak beautifully and loudly about the green transition and the rule of law, but to let climate deniers, with viktor orbán as a role model, hold the reins.
we must be many who dare to keep pointing out the grains of sand, who refuse to accept that human rights do not apply to everyone but only to some, and who protest when unscientific decisions are made in the midst of a burning climate emergency.
a strong democratic eu is also the prerequisite for the eu's continued development as the world's leading environmental organisation.
a europe that takes the lead in global climate action and prevents nationalism and climate denial from slowing down european environmental action.
the swedish presidency's willingness to accept the eu's new climate package is therefore important and welcome.
it's a region that has a lot of the technology and development that we need for the green transition: fossil-free steel, battery factories, new battery technology, green energy.
i hope, therefore, that the swedish government will remove the anxiety that exists around the green transition, around energy, around building all of sweden and building the eu together.
sweden is taking the lead at a time when europe is being pressured by several parallel crises: russia's brutal war in ukraine, an increasingly urgent climate challenge, electricity prices and inflation sending shock waves through the economy, and european companies facing increasingly tough global competition.
we've failed with the business climate.
the improvement of the business climate is urgent if we are to strengthen our global economic position.
we need to explore every possible way of improving the business climate.
a good business climate is the key to prosperity for european citizens.
we have skyrocketing household prices and a serious energy and climate crisis.
we need to ensure inclusion, gender equality and the promotion of a fair and safe environment for gambling.
we need a common, functioning, sustainable and humane migration and asylum policy that respects international law.
and we already know that sustainable, sustainable and inclusive development cannot happen without accompanying social policies and protecting workers.
through global gateway and its team europe initiatives we aim to address the world’s most pressing challenges: the infrastructure gap; the digital divide; climate change; pandemic recovery; increasing inequalities; and preparation for future health crises.
it is our principal means to help our partner countries achieve the sustainable development goals.
second, through the european fund for sustainable development plus, we are mobilising additional funding, including private investors and businesses, acknowledging the private sector’s crucial role in the global gateway rollout.
but there is taxpayers’ money to waste on a eur 387 000 metaverse party that had less attendance than a july after-ski party in denmark.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, joint responsibility for the following: this is the principle that must guide the european union and all member states in addressing migration in a humane and sustainable way.
leaving fossil fuels behind is not just about greener vehicles for the climate, it's also about safety, not being dependent on putin or other oil dictatorships every time we fill up our car.
at the same time, as we move to electric vehicles, we must also ensure that the whole of the eu has zero-carbon electricity production and that we use sustainable batteries.
they're getting cheaper and better, and the car companies want to be climate-smart.
it's time we take responsibility for the climate, that we choose the right path for the car.
a road that is climate neutral, noise-free and healthy.
we're seeing the effects of the pandemic, the climate crisis, sexual and reproductive health and rights.
the issue of digitization is just like the issue of climate change.
gender equality is not only the moral right, it's smarter, it's more sustainable and it creates growth.
it will also be invested in social, transport, energy and green infrastructure projects and in digital projects.
on sustainability, the co-legislators recognised green bonds as a category of investment assets eligible for eltifs.
we live in an era when we cannot expect progress in the fields of democracy, human rights and rule of law anymore, because all energy goes to defending previous battles that have been won.
only a comprehensive renewal of our legal framework can offer a strong and sustainable foundation for eu action.
leaving fossil fuels behind is not only crucial to saving the climate.
the engine of climate change is the green technologies that are now being developed in europe, and not least in northern sweden.
we must set an example in our external environment and in our internal working environment.
we must also set an example of long-term sustainable development for local communities.
if we do, europe will be able to continue to lead and drive the climate change that the world so desperately needs.
it keeps us stuck in a dependency on fertilisers, fossil fuels and, of course, a huge climate impact.
we need to act long-term and quickly on the transition to sustainable and fossil-free agriculture.
and the fertiliser we still have to use has to be circular, climate neutral and european.
the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 14 march 2023.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the outcome of the negotiations on the package fit for 55, namely the report by jessica polfjärd, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2018/842 setting binding national annual greenhouse gas emission reduction targets for the period 2021 to 2030 as a contribution to climate action to meet the commitments under the paris agreement (com (2021) 0555 c9-0321/2021 - 2021/0200(cod)) and the follow-up report by ville niinistö, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2018/842 on binding national annual greenhouse gas emission reduction targets for the period 2021 to 2030 as a contribution to climate action to meet the commitments under the paris agreement (com (2021) 0555 c9-0321/02 (com (2021) 0459 final)) and the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council (eu) amending regulation (eu) 2018/2021 (com (2021/021) 04521) c01) and regulation (eu) no 20920/c) no 209 and regulation (eu) no 20352 regarding the common system of the european parliament and the council on the quantities of agricultural products used in the food chain for the production of cereals, for the purposes of regulation (eu) (com (202021/2015/2015/028) 014/02 and the common organisation for the european parliament and the establishment of the common agricultural guarantee) regulation (com (2020) no 34
the rapporteur.
when we last debated the eu's national climate targets in this house, i said that it was time to get serious about climate policy.
by adopting several new climate laws, we in europe are showing that we can not only set high targets, but that we can also agree on action plans to reach them.
for the first time ever, we have built a strong majority for all eu member states to have binding targets to actually reduce their emissions.
the responsibility sharing regulation is one of the cornerstones of our joint climate action.
with this law, we are setting binding targets for all eu member states and a set of rules for the majority of all emissions in europe.
increasing the pace of our work in this area is absolutely necessary not only to achieve our own climate goals but also our commitments under the paris agreement.
first, we are raising the ambition for europe as a whole in line with the european climate law.
all countries and all sectors must contribute to climate action but the eu's role is to set clear frameworks, not to regulate in detail.
fourth, we are looking beyond 2030. for me, it has been crucial to link these objectives with the major objective of climate neutrality, and we have now outlined and shown concrete steps to be taken by member states.
i hope everyone today understands that the market stability reserve is very large and important for the climate.
it is a key factor in ensuring that the eu emissions trading system ets functions as it was originally intended to.
as we all know, there have been problems with the eu's emissions trading with the large surplus we got on emissions allowances after the financial crisis.
prices became low, and there were weak signals to industry to reduce carbon emissions.
but with the market stability reserve, ets prices are now sending the right signals to industry to actually reduce their emissions.
this applies not only to this part of the market stability reserve, but also to the other important issues which are now moving our positions forward and which allow us in each member state to really take up the fight to cope with climate change in a way that we can promise our children and grandchildren and future generations that at least in this parliament, in our eu, in our union, we are taking responsibility for climate change and leaving a planet and an environment to future generations.
it is critical and crucial that we have broad support in our parliament for climate change.
and that in turn makes us even more dependent on negative emissions, on storing carbon in forests and soils.
the swedish government in particular has done everything in its power during this period to reduce its ambitions to store more carbon in forests and land.
it is not only a really bad climate policy, but it is also unfortunately another sign, a proof, that sweden is no longer a leader in climate and environmental issues.
some say, ‘well, look at china – 30% of the emissions, still increasing the emissions’.
their transition to renewable energy will be very fast.
look at the inflation reduction act in the united states: this will have a huge impact on the transition to a renewable economy.
if we really want jobs that are sustainable jobs, future-oriented jobs, if we want our economy to be competitive in the future, this transition needs to happen and it needs to happen now.
our legislation says there should be no emissions at the tailpipe in 2035. that’s what was agreed between the co-legislators.
if you can make something that creates propulsion without emissions, you can make the choice yourself.
so if in germany they’re always talking about ‘verbrenner-aus’ and all of that, we’re saying ‘no emissions at the tailpipe’, and whatever you can find to have no emissions at the tailpipe is in line with the legislation.
no, the corona fund was supposed to boost the economy, stop the climate crisis and speed up digitalization.
the reopening of the lachin corridor, blockaded by so-called environmental activists from azerbaijan, is paramount.
a planned economic utopia is how the recast of the energy performance of buildings directive can be summed up.
trying to make over 30 million buildings energy efficient in the short timeframe set out in the directive will be expensive.
centralist environmental populism that's what this proposal is about.
a growing forest is sequestering carbon dioxide.
the eu is therefore trying to manage this area in detail, too, with reference to climate.
to offset the emissions of other countries, the union wants to use swedish forests to increase carbon dioxide storage.
at the same time, the commission is calling for further binding annual reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
we have already reduced our emissions substantially, and all the cheap measures have already been implemented.
road transport, heating of buildings, agriculture, small industrial plants and waste management will all be burdened with their own emission targets.
we do not yet know the price tag for sweden's climate targets, but the tug of war over the reduction obligation shows that a reduction in fuel tax could cost up to sek 40 billion.
effective environmental and climate policy must be based on free choice, technological development and member states' own ability to decide how much and how best to contribute.
the regulation will result in higher inflation, higher electricity prices with little climate benefit.
women's skills are needed, especially in the climate situation.
whether it is energy, industrial policy, agriculture or increasing the union's competitiveness in key sectors, europe needs to set an ambitious agenda to develop its internal market, increase its strategic autonomy and protect citizens from negative impacts.
in this context, as the socialist group leader in the european parliament responsible for next year's european budget, i called for more substantial support for areas affected by industrial transition, the rural environment, smes, education, youth and health, as well as adjustment of european programmes in relation to the inflation rate.
the next item is the joint debate on: - the report by bas eickhout, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on fluorinated greenhouse gases, amending directive (eu) 2019/1937 and repealing regulation (eu) no 517/2014 (com (2022) 0150, c9-0142/2022 - 2022/0099 (cod)) (a9-0048/2023), and- the report by jessica polfjärd, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on substances that deplete the ozone layer and repealing regulation (ec) no 1005/2009 (com (2022) 0151 - c9-0143/2022 - 2022/0100 (cod)) (a20239-0050).
fluorinated gases are very highly potent greenhouse gases.
so one molecule of one of f-gases can even warm up the climate to the level of 24 000 times more than co2.
and that is exactly what we’re trying to do here: what we’re going to do here is making an end to these f-gases and making sure that natural alternatives are being used so that this part of our economy will reach climate neutrality as promised also by 2050. this goes back to when we were initially looking at cfcs that were causing, of course, a hole in the ozone layer and we replaced them with f-gases along the years but, of course, these, as i said, were very potent greenhouse gases.
so there is an idea of some of the companies to say let’s every time then move away from these f-gases to other f-gases that have a lower impact, but still have an impact on our climate system and even to the level of going to pfas, so damaging chemicals, whereas in many of these sectors natural alternatives are available, are existing and should be put at the front.
first of all, as i said, we are accelerating the transition to climate neutrality, meaning that in total quota f-gases will go to zero by 2050, ensuring climate neutrality in this low-hanging fruit.
when we began this mandate, this union took on a great and crucial mission: to transform our societies to make them more sustainable.
we have a great responsibility as decision-makers to live up to the environmental and climate goals we have set.
at the same time, these are also opportunities for sustainable development, combining sustainability with growth and competitiveness.
much has already been done during this mandate, but we need to take further steps, and tomorrow an important and concrete step forward in this work will be taken in terms of improving our ozone layer.
emissions of ozone-depleting substances have resulted in a depletion of the ozone layer that has contributed to global warming.
preventing emissions of these substances is the key to preventing damage to health and the environment.
this is precisely what happens when the ozone layer is damaged, and therefore something we need to work on in order to meet the union's climate objectives.
the current regulatory framework is the most important eu instrument for continuing the work of improving and restoring the ozone layer.
it has also proven to work well and so our proposal builds on previous successes with further measures to reduce emissions.
this is not only a success for health and the environment, but also for european industry, which is guaranteed longterm viability in its work with the new regulatory framework.
firstly, the higher ambitions mean that we will have a regulatory framework that focuses on ozone emissions where they are greatest and most serious compared to the past.
this is important for the work we are doing, to have the greatest possible impact on improving the ozone layer.
one thing is guiding environmental and climate action: high ambition combined with realism, and ensuring growth.
with the text on the table, we are showing europe once again that a more sustainable economy can be combined with the right conditions for people and industry.
it has been ambitious and it has been a good result, but in view of that i really wonder, how is it that the moderates back home in sweden are not ambitious on the climate issue and the climate change?
the assessment made by the climate council this morning was not just a sawing - it was a chainsaw massacre of the climate work of the current moderate-led government at home in sweden.
the presidency of the council of ministers has been anything but ambitious on climate change.
as soon as the word forest is mentioned, it has even acted as a brake on the climate change.
in some sectors, banning equipment containing greenhouse gases, even if they have a low global warming potential, is not quickly achievable today.
few equipment using f-gas can use alternative sources, either because of lack of technological innovation or because they are potentially dangerous or worse from an environmental point of view.
the word "ecological transition" needs to be reconsidered.
we must enable industry to safeguard the environment, workers, families and all those affected by this review.
this is the wrong direction to take if we are to support the environment and our industry.
we will support the amendments tabled by the ppe, because the environmental approach is correct and we share it, we are all in favour of the environment, but we must do so within the time limits which allow us today, through our industries, to maintain the prosperity we have achieved.
this is important for the climate and the environment.
and this is not protectionism, but support for innovation, if we make laws that protect the environment and european companies are simply better.
then a good envi report can become a very good plenary report - good for the climate, good for the environment, good for innovative companies and good for europe.
well, in the ozone-depleting substances field, more than 2 000 small- and medium-sized enterprises operate at eu level and it is important to strengthen the commission proposal with the social dimension being in line with the european pillar of social rights.
on the other hand, introducing maximum emission levels and the schedule for phasing out for quantitative limits are important pieces of the emissions and pollutants package under the european green deal.
the eu’s ozone regulation, we can say that this is one of the big success stories of the eu environmental policy and shows how excellent results can be achieved with clear, binding rules, which were missing over years and decades at the level of climate ambition, and in addition cementing europe’s position as a global leader at the montreal protocol.
but f-gases are used in heat pumps - f-gases that have an incredibly high impact on the climate and the greenhouse effect and that need to be phased out.
if you do what the people on the right want, you ignore climate policy and do nothing, but if you do as the green party dream world does, you phase out all the badness overnight and have no alternative to replace the gas with.
that is why we need a realistic environmental policy, so that we can do things but have two minds at the same time.
we need to phase out the f-gas, but we need to do it with realistic alternatives, and we need to be able to solve the climate issue in both the short and long term.
mr president, i want to express my full commitment to the objective of the union being climate neutral by 2050 and to make sure that this transition to a zero-emission economy is driven by participation, the use of available social knowledge, consensus and technology.
it also required that the company justify its decision by means of a complex procedure, but this did not prevent emissions.
we support the use of this substance when used in combination with a system to capture these harmful emissions.
i am basing this on a project that is underway at the basque public health service (osakidetza): a technology that avoids emissions, reduces the carbon footprint of the hospital that implements it, guarantees anesthesiologists the free choice of anesthetic and easily adapts to the working practices of any hospital.
a climate hysteria that, however, has turned into lobbying and actually threatened jobs.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for months we have been discussing here the importance of saving energy and moving to clean energy.
we're not going to save energy, and refrigerators are going to go up in price, retail will be hurt, agriculture and tourism will be hurt.
what decision will you make, one that sounds good now but is unrealistic or one that brings good results for people and the environment?
the proposals we’re discussing today together could bring about a total reduction in the eu’s greenhouse gas emissions of 490 million tonnes in co2 equivalents by 2050. it’s a significant number, slightly higher than the total annual greenhouse gas emissions of a country like france.
it’s fundamental that we remain united in the fight against climate change, that we do not to close our eyes to science and that we let scientists guide us.
i recognise that the timing of some requirements for when products need to make the shift to more climate-friendly gases has been here an element of discussion?
but for heat pumps, this comes at a time where we need to increase deployment rapidly to meet our repowereu and 2030 climate goals.
so i call on the european parliament to be also ambitious on this tomorrow and engage in a swift negotiation process to reach an agreement with council before summer so that the new rules for both f—gases and ozone—depleting substances can apply from 2024 onwards.
i can see that there is a great deal of agreement and broad parliamentary support for the importance of working ambitiously and purposefully on our environment and climate policy.
as i began this debate, the european parliament showed with this proposal how we can work towards ambitious and realistic proposals to meet our environmental and climate challenges.
environmental and climate challenges are the big issue of our time, and just as the challenges are, so are the opportunities.
the eu is the best environmental organisation in the world.
only those who can prove that they have not contributed to deforestation or forest degradation are welcome in our single market and we guarantee sustainable consumption all the way.
it shows that it is possible to act sustainably, protect the lungs of the earth and safeguard biodiversity.
the same political majority nevertheless claims that sweden has the most sustainable forestry in the world.
if sweden's forestry were the most sustainable in the world, this legislation would not be a threat to forestry.
and if this legislation is a threat to swedish forestry, then swedish forestry is not as sustainable as most people still seem to believe and as most people still very much like to tell others that it is.
the carbon border adjustment mechanism, cbam, is one of the most important tools for us, in the eu, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, also in non-eu countries.
in this way we can invest in the next generation also through new climate protection measures in developing countries.
the reinvestments of revenue in climate resilience would set a precedent for future cbam systems.
i pointed out that it was too early for that, and although i appreciate the negotiated timetable for their withdrawal better than the ambitious position of the parliament's environment committee, in my view the withdrawal of free allowances carries the risk of destabilising production in the energy-intensive industrial sector and further losing the competitiveness of the european economy.
i am also critical of the cbam's coverage of indirect emissions.
because the environment and climate are obviously the most important, but economic growth, jobs and the protection of the poorest consumers are equally important.
all revenue from the co2 auction going to national budgets will be spent on climate objectives.
it's really good: more renewable energy, building retrofits, or just transformation.
avoid manipulation of prices to match the real needs of market control in terms of emissions control.
and then finally, cbam, the carbon boundary mechanism.
i also speak for mr adam jaroubas, who was the co-rapporteur of the ppe group: greenhouse gas emissions, jobs must not be allowed to be taken out of europe.
especially when they're in the united states, following our lead, and they're fighting for the climate, too.
we have come as meps to make the european union greener and to stop the climate crisis.
we have therefore decided on the climate emergency, and we have decided on a european climate law, which commits us to be climate neutral by 2050 at the latest.
we're reducing 62 percent of emissions in the emissions trading area.
at the same time, we are also introducing an emissions trading system for transport and buildings.
because far too little co2 has been saved in these areas, our legislation, which decides, for example, on the burner, is far too late and is in fact being torpedoed even in the last few metres under the guise of greenhouse gas neutrality.
the emissions trading system 2 for the building and transport sectors is completely antisocial in concept, because it puts the greatest burden on those who cannot choose which heating they have in their basement - the landlord does.
that's what we get for the climate social fund.
because the climate crisis is not waiting for us to make decisions.
mr president, the ets will be voted on after the end of 2022 agreement; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected.
by 2027, we risk carbon prices rising well above the €45 limit hoped for by the european institutions, causing a direct increase in fossil fuels such as gas, petrol and diesel.
businesses are already facing energy and raw material price increases and uncertainties about the recovery, while markets outside the eu are increasingly competitive.
what if businesses relocate, do we save the environment?
a new commission proposal is needed, one that focuses on climate objectives but supports businesses by better timing and accompanying them in this transition.
for the 2019 european elections, climate was a big issue for all of europe.
our party opted for an effective climate policy, one that requires all member states and sectors to contribute and that encourages market-based solutions and enables innovation and new technologies.
in march, we took the first step by agreeing binding climate targets for all member states.
with the new emissions trading system, we have agreed on a stricter system that ensures we are in line with our target of reducing eu emissions by 55% by 2030. it is absolutely necessary to achieve the climate goals.
this will also reduce emissions in this sector.
at the same time, we know that european industry is in a difficult situation with both inflation and the energy crisis.
last but not least, nuclear power has an obvious role to play in climate action, and i am glad that we now have an ets system that includes this as well.
tomorrow we have a historic vote for the eu, for the climate and for the future.
the tightening of the emissions trading system, the introduction of climate tariffs and the social climate fund are perhaps the most important reforms in fit for 55, which will take us to the eu's 2030 climate targets.
not only will the eu cut its emissions by more than half by 2030, we will also take responsibility for a fair transition for our citizens and create a level playing field for our businesses both within and outside the eu.
it is so clear the eu is leading the green transition and is now showing the rest of the world that a sustainable future is possible.
almost daily we see how the swedish climate policy is being dismantled by the sweden democrats and a right-wing government.
no new proposals are presented on how sweden should achieve the climate goals.
europe needs to protect both its climate and its competitiveness.
without protection of competitiveness, both jobs and the climate are the big losers, and imposing impossible demands will result in companies moving their production outside the union, where emissions are higher.
we therefore need to formulate climate legislation that is ambitious but also realistic.
that was my entry when i represented the epp in the negotiations on eu emissions trading.
we got through increased incentives for companies that store or use carbon dioxide, where they're going to be able to resell those emission allowances so that it pays to capture their emissions.
and we got through - despite the protests of the green party - that the revenue from the carbon trading should go to more carbon storage and electrification of the aircraft and that the revenue should actually go to invest in new nuclear power.
if you do not know what i am talking about, neither should you nor the commission ban the 24-hour pass, which has been so good for both users and the working environment.
we need a global price on carbon, and for that, we need china.
moving forward, we should work towards a more balanced and sustainable approach to our relations with china based on strategic priorities.
in this regard, i believe there is an opportunity to cooperate on a positive agenda, such as on cooperation on biodiversity, sustainable development and climate change.
this week, parliament is making some very important decisions on climate.
the climate threat is global.
the eu and china are now interdependent in tackling this climate threat.
if we are to meet the climate challenge, we must develop this partnership.
if we are to meet the climate challenge, china must be included in climate action, but when we do, we must make our demands stronger and be extremely clear about increased human rights, better working conditions and the right of regions and countries to self-determination.
since russia's full-scale invasion of ukraine, we have been told that energy policy no longer exists in a vacuum, that energy policy decisions taken at national and union level also mean a great deal for our security, our growth, our competitiveness and our standard of living.
energy storage will be an important part of the work to ensure that we can reap all the benefits of the expansion of renewable energy sources in the future.
we need to be able to meet our energy needs even when the sun is not shining and the wind is blowing.
i cannot therefore stand in this chair and speak about energy policy without mentioning the betrayal of europe's consumers that took place this weekend.
instead of fossil-free cheap energy, germany is now increasing its emissions and risks driving up prices again.
if we're going to do that, i'm very optimistic about the production of wind power, solar power and also other renewable forms of energy, but this is where the big additions are going to happen.
we must also add to this that, whatever our views on nuclear power, no new nuclear power plant will be ready in time, but we must be able to switch off and on energy whenever we want, and for this we must be able to store.
i also heard very good news this morning on swedish radio that sweden's largest producer of hydropower will make the current hydropower more efficient and possibly be able to produce 720 new megawatts, many of which will be pumped-storage power, that is, a new way of storing larger amounts of energy.
we need new green energy.
we need to be able to store green energy and we definitely need to save energy.
let’s talk about the challenges that the eu and the whole world is facing – attacks on fundamental rights, including on women, lgbtqi and minority rights; dismantling of democracy; violation of international law; climate emergency; poverty and hunger; conflicts.
policies that are sustainable in the long term.
the deaths in the mediterranean are really the result of the eu's failure to formulate a migration policy that is sustainable for the future.
every day that the eu fails to develop a new sustainable system adapted to future migration flows and to ensure a rapid check at the eu's external border is a failure for european cooperation, but it is also what makes people sacrifice their lives in the mediterranean.
the eu has to support many of the pressing challenges facing the iraqi government, such as finding a sustainable understanding with the kurdish regional government and build a diversified economy integrated in the national system.
and thirdly, we will need more effective funding and sustainable investments in health infrastructure, both from public and private sector.
we also need to work to reverse the tide and regain the lost ground for the universal health targets in the 2030 sustainable development goals.
the bill calls into question uganda as a country where rights and freedoms are guaranteed to all citizens – an essential feature not only of an open and democratic society, but also an environment conducive to business and foreign investment.
the eu's afforestation regulation is intended to promote sustainable forest management and reduce climate emissions, but will have many unintended negative consequences.
this is an expensive and inefficient way of reducing emissions.
the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
before we move on to the agenda, i have an announcement: mrs francesca peppucci has been a member of the political group of the european people's party since 20 april 2023.
the first item on the agenda concerns the commission statement on the ipcc report on climate change: a call for urgent additional action (2023/2645 ((rsp)).
– mr president, dear members, a few weeks ago, on 20 march, the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) concluded its sixth assessment cycle with the release of the report.
this report provides the consolidated state of knowledge on the science of climate change and summarises the key findings of this eight—year—long cycle with an ultimate warning.
there is still time to ensure a livable future for humans and nature, on the condition of urgent, more ambitious climate action.
the ipcc reports are the most comprehensive and authoritative assessments on the science of climate change.
over this cycle, 10 000 pages of scientific assessment have been provided through six reports covering all aspects of climate science, including the options and solutions for mitigating climate change and adapting to the expected impacts of climate change.
the only way to halt global warming and lessen impacts of climate change is by bringing greenhouse gas emissions to net zero.
limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees requires radical action at the global level with unprecedented efforts across countries and economic sectors.
only deep, rapid and sustained reduction in greenhouse gas emissions at global level would lead to a discernible slowdown in global warming in the foreseeable future.
it comes ahead of cop 28 of the un climate convention and the conclusion of the first global stocktake exercise of the climate convention, giving another opportunity to parties to enhance their action.
our ability to avoid the worst impacts depends fundamentally on two major ranges of actions: emissions reductions and adaptation efforts.
on the one hand, the report’s findings clearly reinforce the rationale underpinning the eu’s objective to become climate neutral by 2050. with the fit for 55 proposals of july 2021 and agreement on the climate proposals over recent months, the eu has taken decisive action to achieve its at least 55 net emission reduction target by 2030 and be on track towards climate neutrality in the eu by 2050. the eu needs to push ahead with implementation of this ambitious package to keep showing others around the world that ambitious climate action is possible.
on the other hand, the report also confirms that climate change is here to stay and that some of its effects are unavoidable, even under the most ambitious mitigation scenarios.
this underscores the importance of adaptation, where the eu is stepping up its efforts under the climate law and the eu adaptation strategy.
even if steep global emissions reductions start now, the world will continue to warm for decades, and we will continue to feel the impacts of past emissions.
we need to do more to shift global investment flows and consumption patterns for a transition towards climate—neutral and sustainable development.
delaying action means scarce resources spent on unsustainable investments that lock us into more pollution and miss important opportunities to modernise our economies, increasing the challenges we face.
just one example: global sea level is increasing due to human—induced climate change and will continue to rise under all emission scenarios, putting coastal communities at risk.
the un climate panel is one such text.
more needs to be done in international climate action.
they point to last summer's drought, forest fires and so on, and say that it has a real impact on our climate and that we are now breaking record after record, but not in the way we would like to be the best in europe.
that is why i find it quite strikingly odd that there are groups in this house that continue to oppose solutions that we need to put in place to effectively work towards achieving climate goals and countering the developments that we see in the climate field today.
but every time we talk about enabling new technologies, for example carbon capture, which the ipcc also shows is a necessity to reach climate goals, they get in the way - it was shown as recently as this week when we discussed and voted on sustainable carbon cycles.
the ipcc is saying, as it is, that if we don't accelerate the pace of transition quickly, we're headed for a climate collapse.
the commission replied that the eu must continue to tighten up our climate targets, and that is a good thing.
we must look ahead to the eu's climate targets by 2040 now, and there is no time to wait.
we have a concrete opportunity to act already at cop 28 this autumn, and the resolution for cop 28 that we are going to put forward must send a clear signal to the commission to keep up the pace and put forward really concrete proposals that can reduce emissions in the near future.
i really look forward to this work, and the eu must continue to show leadership in climate change and be a strong global player.
in fact, the sixth report of the un panel on climate change can be summed up in a single sentence: the situation is worse than in the previous reports.
that's actually what's been in every report from the un climate panel.
we're going to fit for 55 when we should have had a 70 percent ambition in the climate bill.
that's what the research showed then, and what the research shows now is that we need to quickly raise ambition and become climate neutral absolutely by 2040.
mr president, i would like to thank you.
no one can read the latest ipcc report and continue to deny that we are facing a climate crisis.
adapting to climate change may reduce risks, but it does not solve the problems.
we need to get the emissions down.
what is also missing is a careful analysis of the impact of eu climate spending, which is perhaps of particular interest to our taxpayers and voters.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we are rewriting rules in order to make the industry more transparent, green and consumer-oriented, to make it easier for you to make informed choices and sustainable choices when you make purchase.
when it comes to sustainability labels, we are reinforcing the certification schemes.
this includes a complaint system that focuses on non-compliance and insurance, and the withdrawal of the sustainability labels in such cases.
we will ban environmental claims if not substantiated with evidence, such as ‘environmentally friendly’, ‘natural’, ‘biodegradable’, ‘climate neutral’ or ‘eco’.
in addition, companies will no longer be able to feature carbon offsetting as an asset.
we are enabling citizens to choose products that are more durable, repairable and sustainable.
furthermore, we will end the jungle of false environmental claims – only certified and substantiated ecological claims will be permitted.
for instance, the 2023 consumer conditions scoreboard shows that more than half of respondents said they were influenced by environmental considerations when purchasing a product recently.
but 39% also flagged that they consider environmental claims unreliable.
this proposal is part of a broader package of initiatives aimed at fostering sustainable consumption, covering the design, the purchasing and the use phases.
it also aims to ensure better protection of consumers against harmful practices that prevent them from making optimal, sustainable consumption choices.
for instance, together with the recent ‘green claims’ proposal, it aims to strengthen the fight against greenwashing by banning practices that mislead consumers on the actual sustainability of products.
by doing so, consumers will be able to choose products that are genuinely better for the environment.
this will encourage competition towards more environmentally sustainable products.
if europe is to cope with climate change, climate-smart action must be made easier.
but we have a problem, because the eu has no credibility to stop greenwashing, when we have greenwashing in this parliament: it's the environment party and their green party group.
because despite their high-tailed approach to climate issues, we see how they're pushing to ban advertising for solar panels and electric cars, they're trying to stop eco-labels, and they want to ban companies from compensating for climate change.
how are we going to encourage companies to take climate responsibility if they can't tell us about their sustainability work?
it needs to be more profitable for companies to become climate-smart, and it needs to be easier for consumers to buy sustainably.
today it is all too easy to mislead consumers with beautiful words about sustainability, which in reality mean nothing at all.
it will give european consumers better opportunities to find out whether a product can be repaired, how long it can be used and how much it may have affected the climate and the environment.
we are thus one step closer to my vision: a sweden and a europe free from dangerous environmental toxins.
the eu has been under heavy pressure in recent years - the migration crisis, the pandemic, the energy crisis and the war on international law in ukraine.
this mandate in the eu has been exceptional pandemic, energy crisis and war in europe.
over the last two years, we have doubled the share of renewable energy in europe.
we must show and push for the rest of the world to follow the eu and triple renewable energy investment by 2030, double energy efficiency by 2030 and ensure that the damage and loss fund is launched.
our focus at cop28 must be action to reduce emissions now.
with natural resources, climate-smart electricity and competence, the future of green industry in europe lies there if we safeguard global competition.
with the net zero industry act, we shorten the licensing process for new businesses, reduce the administration of entrepreneurs, promote competitiveness and innovation, and it is a path to a sustainable europe and a sustainable world.
we must act quickly because the situation on the ground is worrying, in particular for solar and wind energy.
recognising the strategic importance of nuclear energy and the objectives of increasing the european production capacity of net zero industries and technologies are important elements on the path to a strong european industry.
achieving the 2030 and 2050 climate targets implies an exponential increase in clean energy production.
technologies such as nuclear fusion, sustainable aviation fuel (saf) production or co2 capture and storage are included in the text and the scope of nzia covers the entire supply chain, including components, materials and machinery for the production of net zero emission technologies.
– the eu needs an innovation renaissance in order to be both environmentally and economically sustainable.
in order to achieve this, supporting industry and pursuing climate goals must go hand-in-hand.
for the net zero industry act to achieve its aim of creating a predictable and simplified regulatory environment in the context of the green deal, competitiveness must be at its heart.
the commission has calculated that we produce 35 million tonnes of waste every year simply because we do not repair but throw away goods that are actually functional.
and together with other initiatives, such as the adopted proposal for a directive on empowering consumers for the green transition and the proposal for an ecodesign for sustainable products regulation, it aims at ensuring an effective right to repair for consumers.
and in this context, we also welcome the co-legislators progress on the proposal for an ecodesign for sustainable products regulation.
the honourable president, as rapporteur for the opinion of the envi committee, can say that this proposal, in line with the european green plan, is key to achieving our sustainable consumption and, of course, climate neutrality objectives.
our focus has been, in particular in the opinion of the envi committee, to facilitate product repair for consumers, thereby reducing waste and strengthening the repair sector.
we also stress the need for the transparency of spare parts prices and their availability, which is key to a sustainable repair market.
today, only a fifth of all cell phones are repaired, and that's a huge waste of resources.
it benefits everyone, both consumers and the climate.
it's not sustainable.
it's sustainable, it's the future.
we are truly in the midst of a climate crisis right now - a climate catastrophe.
and it's no longer enough to reduce emissions quickly.
we also need to develop technologies that remove carbon from the atmosphere, store it in agricultural land and in our forests.
the commission's proposal is based in principle on the fact that companies should be able to offset their emissions by buying free of charge using carbon storage certificates.
the results of the environmental committee are pretty good.
for example, agricultural activities should be certified as they are today without the need to do anything more to increase the carbon stock.
it's not just wrong, it's also wrong to let down all the farmers, all the planetary farmers in europe who actually want and can do something much, much more to really increase our chances of reaching our climate goals.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals and the environment.
you have not even taken into account efsa's advice, you have simply referred the baby to the states, who will have a lot of difficulty doing better than efsa in assessing product risks and protecting health and the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to a historic result with great intelligence, which puts a very fossil sector (heavyweights, 25% of transport carbon emissions) on a low emission path.
low emissions?
there is a growing body of europeans who say that the pace of climate change imposed by the commission is too fast and that the social and economic costs of leaving fossil fuels without an equally efficient alternative will be enormous.
the subject is: traditional sources are not sustainable and not eternal.
first, sustainability is not measured by emissions at landfill, but over the entire lifecycle, because here are surprises: over the entire life cycle, we have state-of-the-art fuels, biofuels and synthetic fuels, which sometimes have a better carbon balance than electricity.
for many years electricity will still be produced from coal-fired plants and non-renewable sources.
within 10 years, the international energy agency says we'll be down to 10 million but the proposed electrification process would require 50 million.
europe is the most sustainable continent in the world because it has always invested in technological freedom, not in binding solutions.
these constraints will reduce research, break down industry and not achieve sustainability.
what damage to our health and how much damage is being done to the environment and the climate.
think about it a little bit, 25% of traffic emissions come from these big vehicles, but these vehicles are only 2% of all vehicles on our roads.
the conservatives here don't want us to have changes to our health and to the environment, but now is the time to shape the future; where we have pushed to make trucks, cranes, these heavy-duty vehicles, their future one that is good for our health and the environment.
it was quite clear that the industry is committed to reducing emissions and being more sustainable.
mr president, technological neutrality, if achieved in heavy vehicles, will benefit all member states, allowing each member state to meet its own energy targets.
the european parliament is therefore calling for, and we must also call for, all cleaner energy alternatives that actually achieve these objectives and that do not create uncertainties that are harmful to investment but also to innovation in transport companies.
so what we are going to defend and legitimize here, on behalf of the epp too, is support for energy sources that allow for co2 reduction without choosing one over the other.
one is very, very clear ambition in terms of climate action.
i only want to go into the carbon correction factor at the end.
then those who are now saying i want a common correction factor, and for that i need a broader definition of carbon neutrality of fuels, they are bending the truth as well.
even peter liese – my dear colleague, i have high esteem for you, pity you are not there – in your proposal you are saying that renewable liquid and gaseous fields of non-biological origin should be zero.
however, in other european legislation it’s very clear those are being defined with the reduction of greenhouse gas by 70%.
and let us not mix it with all kinds of other dubious lobbies, because the only one fighting for carbon neutrality for fuels, it is the gas lobby.
we have also seen kenya’s influential role in amplifying africa’s concerns on climate change.
the summit organised recently in nairobi – the first africa climate summit – underlined our shared vision on international climate diplomacy and decarbonisation.
the european union is committed to the transition towards renewable energy sources and i am convinced that we will share the needed leadership when implementing the global gateway projects on green hydrogen.
at the same time, progress towards the sustainable development goals is unravelling.
and, most existentially, the world, as the un secretary-general reminded us recently, is literally on fire – ‘the era of global boiling’, it used to be ‘global warming’ – emphasising the severe and escalating impact of climate change.
the escalating severity of climate change is particularly acute and poignant in africa, a continent that, despite its minimal contribution to global emissions, finds itself at the forefront of environmental vulnerability.
in africa with less buffers to address climate change challenges, we feel the impact more directly and more acutely.
they are interconnected layers of a complex historical, economic, and environmental narrative that the continent endures.
climate change has introduced a new dimension into this complex equation.
while it poses an existential threat, climate change has also emerged as a levelling force, equalising us all in the face of a shared global challenge, transcending all divides: north-south, east-west, developed and developing.
we need to be bold and strategic, and also take the decisive step towards the structural shift required to fulfil the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and keep global warming at 1.5°c.
this was precisely the premise of the inaugural africa climate summit that i hosted in nairobi in september.
an opportunity to reach sustainable, equitable prosperity for all of humanity.
the africa climate summit culminated in the nairobi declaration, which sets out the vision and a pathway for africa to be a vital part of the global solution to the existential climate change challenge that we all face.
the declaration captures the consensus of the african government leaders for climate positive growth.
we have the world’s biggest untapped renewable energy potential, the youngest and fastest growing workforce and human capital, and relevant natural resources and assets.
these assets create an inherent ability for africa to produce green-from-the-start, cost-competitive products and services, and to provide some of the highest-quality carbon removal services anywhere in the world.
over 600 million africans are deprived of access to energy, a fundamental prerequisite for dignified living and the provision of basic yet vital services like health and education.
while the global narrative often emphasises energy transition, for most of africa, it is about energy growth, expansion and access.
in june this year, this very parliament adopted legislation to create the enabling environment for the domestic production of 10 million tonnes of green hydrogen by 2030 and the import of a similar amount in order to green eu industry.
if africa’s renewable energy potential were deployed to smelt currently mined bauxite into aluminium, we could save millions of tons of co2 equivalent and generate hundreds of thousands of jobs in our continent.
green steel is another, not to mention africa’s significant global deposits of critical minerals or our potential to produce sustainable fuels.
it is, ladies and gentlemen, i request, the time for europe to deploy these technologies and capital to now unlock the huge green energy resources, drive green industrialisation using the natural resource endowments in the continent, global green products and services, create jobs and, at the same time, decarbonise europe and global growth.
let us consider some sobering facts: in the last two decades, global investments in renewable energy soared to an impressive usd 3 trillion, but only a fraction of this – usd 60 billion, or just 2% – found its way to africa, despite our enormous potential and urgent energy needs.
europe has been an ally and a partner to africa for many years, encompassing a broad spectrum of initiatives that are very important for our continent, from economic cooperation that fosters trade and investment, to the vital steps taken in energy and climate change through initiatives like the africa-eu energy partnership, and we are making very steady progress in that direction.
madam president, members of this great august house, fostering long-term peace and stability goes hand in hand with building sustainable economic foundations.
firstly, africa’s journey to become a green industrial powerhouse needs the right type and amount of capital, especially in renewable energy and infrastructure.
such investment could catapult africa to a future where energy access is universal by 2030, simultaneously slashing emissions from energy generation in africa by 80%.
in fact, one of the biggest contributions that the eu can make to both addressing poverty in africa and achieving global climate goals is through its demand for green products and services, including for carbon credits.
thirdly, the eu has a golden opportunity to leverage high-quality african carbon credits that conserve and expand natural carbon sinks, reduce emissions and remove atmospheric carbon.
these days, not a week goes by without an exposé about bad carbon credits.
in the nairobi declaration, we committed to leaning forward in increasing the bar on quality and integrity on carbon and other relevant effects of this project.
in kenya, the draft carbon markets regulation is in the final stage of finalisation, and we believe that, using these carbon credit instruments, we can create resources to not only expand our growth but also decarbonise global growth.
fourthly, aligning european concessional and multilateral capital with africa’s climate agenda is also an economic idea.
it is about phasing down climate incompatible funding to shift them towards climate action, unlock much more concessional finance and lower risks.
cooperation that does not lock in developing countries in fossil fuel dependency, but allows them to advance alongside the rest of the world in the transition to sustainable energy.
in the face of threats that transcend borders and oceans, it is essential to adopt a clear-sighted and unified approach to confront climate change, combat poverty, and tackle conflict.
let us be guided by a deep commitment to ensuring a prosperous, equitable and sustainable world for those who will follow our footsteps.
– mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that’s good news for the climate; it’s good news for the european economy; and it’s a clear answer to the americans, to the inflation reduction act.
sustainability requirements and climate protection are set in accordance with the paris climate agreement, and in new zealand, indigenous peoples are fully protected.
example: compliance with the paris convention on climate change is strictly regulated.
in fact, we place sustainability right at the heart of the agreement: climate, environment, economic and social sustainability.
we are dynamic exporting economies, we are strong proponents of meaningful climate action, we are firm believers in supporting agri-food producers and rural communities.
i will reiterate that it is a really modern and state-of-the art deal in the following ways: the fta reflects our joint high ambitions to offer new market opportunities to business operators from both sides, while reinforcing our joint commitment to strong ambitions on sustainable development.
it contains the most ambitious sustainability commitments ever included in a free trade agreement.
for example, the fta reflects the outcome of the 2022 trade and sustainable development review, with sanctionable commitments to the paris agreement on climate, as well as core labour standards.
it is important to ensure we tackle the climate emergency and safeguard workers’ rights.
the agreement also contains novel commitments on circular economy, deforestation, carbon pricing and protection of the marine environment, and liberalises environmental goods and services at entry into force.
the trade and sustainable development chapter also includes dedicated trade and gender equality provisions aimed at advancing gender equality and the economic empowerment of women.
this agreement also contains important novel provisions on sustainable food systems and animal welfare.
it puts in place predictable and transparent rules for digital trade, facilitating data flows with trust and securing an online environment for consumers.
it will eliminate export restrictions of energy and raw material goods, bans export pricing and promotes trade and investment in sustainable energy goods, such as energy-efficient products.
i look forward for today’s debate and the vote tomorrow, which i hope will see the parliament give its consent to this state-of-the-art free trade agreement, which puts sustainability at its core.
as a free trade friend, a climate activist, a feminist, a democratic, it is my pleasure that hopefully tomorrow we will vote yes to the world's most modern free trade agreement.
it shows that trade and sustainability go hand in hand.
sweden would lose all right to influence its own environmental policy and we would have an eu government.
we see this in russia's energy war against europe.
the parties of the moderates, the christian democrats, the social democrats, the environment party, the liberals and the centre party have voted today to pass a report to transfer power over taxes and finance, education, health, defence and much more from the member states to brussels.
europe's energy needs are increasing.
we need to cut carbon emissions.
europe's use of renewable energy is moving forward, but it must not lock us in a situation where gas is used as a backup when the sun is not shining or the wind is not blowing.
europe also needs a stable nuclear energy production as renewable energy production increases.
so i'm so happy that we're now determining that small modular reactors are needed to provide us with the affordable, efficient, programmable, carbon-free electricity we need.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report by nicola beer on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for ensuring a safe and sustainable supply of critical raw materials and amending regulations (eu) no 168/2013, (eu) 2018/858, (eu) 2018/1724 and (eu) 2019/1020 (com(2023) 0160 c9-0061/2023 2023/0079(cod)) (a90260/2023).
now we're re-opening for the climate, but electrification requires huge amounts of critical metals and minerals.
the green transition must be sustainable sustainable all the way.
when we vote on a plan to increase the extraction and recycling of critical raw materials in the eu, we will show that sustainability requirements are high and unifiable.
but at the same time, i regret to say that this benevolent legislation hardly compensates for the many steps taken and continue to be taken in the wrong direction, where the environmental policy of the region is putting the wheel of strategically important industries in europe.
i am a little surprised when a finnish member of the finnish environment party wants to veto sami settlements and also claims that the consequences are too serious for the environment.
would it be better for the environment if we were to grow these substances from china or africa?
the european parliament has also called on the commission to take a decision on the implementation of the european community's policy on the protection of the environment.
russia's full-scale invasion of ukraine is not only a humanitarian disaster; putin is also responsible for a complete environmental disaster that will affect generations to come.
at the same time, the russian military is emitting huge amounts of climate emissions.
it's a mockery of all of us who are trying to fight to cut emissions.
russia must not only be held accountable for the damage and environmental crime, ecocide, which it commits, but the russian state must also bear and assume full economic responsibility for recovering its damage.
russia and putin are a threat to europe's security, but also to our common environment.
we face many challenges: conflicts, democratic decline, populists and extremists marching forward, gender equality under attack, climate change and the digital evolution of ai and other systems, which can be a huge asset only if regulated and shared.
the conflict in ukraine and the geopolitical challenges related to china, as well as the need for global climate change management, are just some of the challenges that require strong and united transatlantic cooperation.
this includes cooperation in areas such as trade, security, defence, technology and combating climate change.
if we're going to stop climate change, we need to stop fossil fuels.
once again, the eu is the leader in global climate action, and this underscores the importance of climate policy coordination.
the message is clear: emissions must be reduced now, not then.
and that applies to all countries -- not least my swedish right-wing conservative government, which, contrary to science, the eu and the cop28 agreement right now, is increasing emissions by 2030, while households are getting poorer.
the eu has once again shown that it is the world's strongest, most powerful, most important and most ambitious environmental organisation.