the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to congratulate you officially, and i know that you are very tolerant of speaking time. you have inherited that from your predecessor, and i want to thank you for that. mr president, madam prime minister, mr president of the commission! we are discussing europe at a difficult time. let 's face it . many of those who are helping to shape europe today, perhaps sometimes even more so than we in this parliament, are not here: the financial markets, the rating agencies. it is also absolutely intolerable that we often become the victims and the willing enforcers of financial market developments and of the rating agencies. they are taking advantage of europe's weakness. the weakness of europe is that we have not really found common solutions or have found some solutions with difficulty. and this is something that the rating agencies prove to us every day: if we do not have common solutions, then we will play our game, but not european politics. i therefore naturally support all that has been said, including the community method. madam prime minister, you have made a very good point. but it is also about - and you said that rightly - getting away from the one-sided austerity policy. the commission has already made it clear that it will not accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. and is it not worrying that the financial times - i emphasize: the financial times, not a left-wing paper - is contradicting us when it writes: "the conclusion of the fiscal treaty, which is the top priority of eu politics right now, is at best an irrelevant distraction. that's got to make us think! but it is also the social problems that are the consequences of this irrelevant distraction. madam prime minister, you mentioned it: let us look at romania today. what is happening there is a contradiction to the very austerity policy that is anti-social. and you were right, saving is important. but it must not be at the expense of the poorest. and that's what's happening in romania today. i can only appeal to everyone to find the way back to securing the social state in europe. without the welfare state we will not be able to solve the budgetary problems either. i am not speaking against reforms that are necessary here and there. but i am against the fact that the very foundations of the welfare state are being called into question today. and then there's social unrest, then there's massive curtailment of civil rights, then there's more police dominance on the streets. what is happening in bucharest and other cities today should really make us think. you mentioned the education sector. it's similar here. we say that we have recently adhered to the lisbon programme: we are supposed to become the most competitive region, the most competitive region, especially in terms of education, training and science and research. and what do we see today? the funds are being cut. they are no longer increased, but they are reduced. and i think that's absolutely harmful. and if you've talked about the no-future generation, it's already here. you have rightly said in your programme that we need europe at work. unfortunately, we often have a europe today with rising unemployment. i would say that my group wants to see europe at work! we fully support your approach. and this can only happen - and i want to make this very clear - if we combine ecology and labour and employment policy. we are absolutely against seeing this as a contradiction. (applause from the centre) and that is why we will fight together with all our forces - including the trade unions - to ensure that new jobs are created, but at the same time that the environment is protected and that it is sustainable development. we fully support the danish presidency. if you have also spoken about energy efficiency, for example, that is also a subject which is very close to our hearts. we have to become more energy efficient, we can become more energy efficient. there are many good examples, we just have to follow them. i think the important thing is that we can be proud again. we must be able to be proud of europe again as europe. if we go to america now, or anywhere else, to china, we will be faced with our problems. ten years ago, it was different. i want things to be different again after the danish presidency, so that we can be proud of europe together. let me conclude with a brief remark, because i don't want to overstate the tolerance of our new president. we have had a debate in our group which was exemplary in the best sense of the word before i was elected. i would also like to formally thank my colleagues, in particular catherine trautmann and stephen hughes. we're closed today. we remain a close and capable partner for our colleagues in this house and, of course, for the presidency and the european commission. we have many different ideas of this europe: a social europe, a fair europe, an ecological europe. and above all - we shall discuss this this afternoon - a democratic europe. there must be democracy in all our member states. but we're open to discussion. we want to work together on this europe. i would like to congratulate you once again, mr president, and all the vice-presidents. i think we've done a good job of decorating our house.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not want to go into the phrases used by mr barroso and the prime minister. you're not fit to debate politics. but i am opposed to the agitation against hungary which is being made here in the house - and not only here in the house, but which has already taken the form of blackmailing manoeuvres, if you look at the way the commission is acting against hungary. as an austrian, i am reminded of how the european union acted against austria in 2000 with stupid sanctions and really embarrassed itself. the accusations are unjust, and they are false. the orbán government has repeatedly proven that it is a democratic government. it has been elected by two thirds of the hungarian electorate and is democratically legitimized. it has also shown in the past that it has repeatedly proved itself as a reliable partner during the presidency of the council, not only in the union but also in nato. hungary cannot be treated like this. and all those who think that with this agitation they can bring the socialists or the liberals or the old or new marxists back to power are mistaken. with this defamation of the hungarian government ... (the president withdrew the floor).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. congratulations to you, too. i look forward to working with you. the council presidency will have two priorities. it has set itself the objective of leading a responsible europe. a responsible europe must be a democratic europe. a democratic europe requires the european parliament to be involved in every decision taken at european level. the european parliament must be involved in the decision-making during the danish presidency. a responsible europe must unite and not divide. perhaps it is a good thing that you are not in the eurozone, because there are attempts to separate the one from the other. all the measures taken in response to the crisis must be community measures and must prepare the way for the next step towards economic and social union and political union. the second focus will be on financial market regulation. i ask you to join us in parliament in trying to overcome individual interests quickly and to take the necessary measures to strengthen the capital structure and liquidity while preserving the european economic structure. we have a lot of work to do, but we can only do it together!
in writing. denmark is a country that is pro- and anti-euro. a country that was already told by the french president at the eu summit in december that it was out of the way, a small country and new. it is clear that this presidency of the council will be overshadowed by the debt crisis, as indeed have been the last few presidencies. and a healthy critique of europe may be just the thing to do in order to mediate between the euro countries and non-euro countries or to push through necessary steps such as a core european monetary union. it is to be hoped that the brief scepticism on the danish side regarding the abolition of border controls in the new schengen agreement will lead the commission not to make border controls unnecessarily more difficult and thus to introduce a further restriction of national sovereign rights. and when the eu summit in march decides on serbia's accession status, denmark will hopefully put an end to the double standards that have prevailed so far and treat serbia fairly. finally, it is not in the interests of an eu in which not all the states have recognised kosovo to demand such recognition from serbia. and it is time to turn the eu accession negotiations with turkey into negotiations on a privileged partnership.
in writing. denmark has repeatedly demonstrated in the past that one does not always have to follow the eu mainstream blindly. in two referendums, the opposition to joining the euro area was clear. copenhagen has shown that one can survive economically without the euro and that not every critic of the euro area is at the same time an anti-euro. the rejection of romania and bulgaria's accession to schengen was also a sovereign decision in the interests of their own people. the eu could benefit from this attitude. but what is there to fear? the european council in copenhagen in december last year stressed the need to strengthen the european union's role in the world economy by strengthening the european union's role in the world economy. the commission is also keen to push forward the accession negotiations with turkey. erdoğan himself has proved with his national verbal power-mashing or anti-western and anti-israeli attitude that turkey does not share the common european values.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. at the recent summit on the crisis of monetary union, the heads of government seemed to agree that the crisis was an opportunity to turn european monetary union into what the initiators of the euro had supposedly envisaged when they introduced the common currency, namely a fiscal and economic union. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. it is true that in the face of the current crisis it may be necessary to install a strong european leadership. this must not, however, lead to a franco-german directory. the eu treaties must therefore be respected. this means, in particular, that the rights of smaller member states must also be respected. the small member states must not be overrun by the wheel of centralism in brussels, nor must they be pushed against the wall by the big ones in the eu. instead of continually shifting more powers to brussels and continually pushing forward the eu centralisation which has also contributed to the debt crisis, we must finally draw the right conclusions from the debt crisis. instead of more centralisation and more centralism, we must return to a federation of states with equal rights, able to pursue their own economic and budgetary policies. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. otherwise, there is no doubt that the risk of the euro area's healthy economies being hit by this debt crisis is real.
in writing. the last council summit on 8 and 9 december showed once again that the heads of government seem to prefer a blind flight forward to thinking about fundamental errors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the consequences of the euro crisis must be drawn now, before the situation worsens. we must return to a common europe of independent nations. a common currency can only exist between countries with similarly strong economies and stability. that is why i voted against the motion for a resolution on the recent eu summit.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking the council for its clear words, but also the commission. i am sure that some of us feel that the commission could be a little more active in its assessment of the situation. but i don't want to question that here. i thank you for what you have said, mr president barroso. mr orbán, this is not the first time we have had this discussion. and you should be wondering why we are discussing hungary again, and not really about hungary, but about what your government is doing. some laws have been challenged. but they are essential laws. it is about the independence of the data protection authority, the judge, the national bank. it may even be about the independence of the judiciary as a whole. i do not want to criticise the individual measures but the spirit behind them. they say it is a matter of rebuilding on the basis of european values. but the european values are democracy, that is, the change in governments. but you want to stop that. they even want to exercise power in hungary beyond a change in government. that's what we're criticizing, the spirit you represent. i am deeply disappointed, mr daul, by your statement. because there's nothing of that spirit in there. mr orbán is after all the vice-chairman of the european people's party. you should take the initiative. they have the power - even more than the commission - to tell mr orbán what is right and what is wrong about his policies. why don't you just do it? (applause from the centre) what particularly concerns me, mr orbán, mr prime minister, is that you know as well as i do many people who fought against national socialism. they've been locked up. you fought against communism. and they are now affected by your actions because they say: why did we fight for freedom if it is now being taken back piece by piece? mr orbán, talk to these people! listen to them in hungary, if you do not want to listen in parliament. and secondly, ladies and gentlemen, in this chamber, president buzek has referred to the great merits of mr václav havel. take the example of václav havel. he always fought against communism, but always for freedom. (applause from the centre) mr orbán and representatives of the government, i thank you again - also as rapporteur for croatia - for helping croatia to join the european union. but you know as well as i do that croatia, with a government of orbán, would not have entered the european union, it would not have met the criteria. at least now, mr orbán, make sure that hungary meets the criteria. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 14 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the answer is the blue card procedure. mr daul, i am not aware that you have made any application during this period. then we could have had an open discussion. we are concerned with freedom, and i am surprised that you and, for example, the polish colleagues can applaud both václav havel and orbán. there are worlds in between, you must realize that! and i'm standing up for the world of václav havel. that's my position.
mr president, may i say to the council, the commission, mr orbán and colleagues – especially colleagues from the european people’s party – that i am astonished, and even appalled, by the way the european people’s party is dealing with this debate today. i know quite a few colleagues from the european people’s party who are very critical of the authoritarian spirit that mr orbán and his fidesz party have been installing in hungary. there are people who are really afraid in that country, as mr daniel cohn-bendit has said: be it jews, be it critical journalists, be it artists, be it lesbians and gays, be it scientists, be it roma people. why does not anyone in the european people’s party speak out about that, if they see it as critical and are afraid of this violation of the european spirit, as mr barroso has said, and the violation of the common values which many of us – including mr orbán – fought for twenty years ago, before the iron curtain fell? why does not any one of you tell mr orbán: ‘we are here to debate with you what you have to change in the constitution and the various laws to do away with this authoritarian spirit that so many people in hungary are afraid of’? and not just the ideological left; how about conductors like mr adam fischer or cellists like andrás schiff? why do they not want to play again? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i am going to speak in english because, even if i am not mr lambsdorff, i will gladly reply on this point. this is not about gender discrimination, and i can assure you that i would have something to say on that subject if it were. if mr szájer were married to a man, the same thing would apply, but i know that is not possible in hungary. this is about people who were founders of fidesz – mr szájer, his wife, mr orbán and so many others. this is about what mr orbán is doing and the way that the chair of the justice authority has been appointed, like that of the media authority: they are all very close friends, very close allies, of mr orbán and of fidesz. if you have a two-thirds majority in a country, you must be aware that you have to be very sensitive in how you deal with such matters, and not put all your friends ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not mr orbán, prime minister, i have to say that i am very pleased. it's good you were there. it's good that we had this debate, it was a lively debate. i would like to make a few brief remarks. i'm also glad that you've at least partially admitted that you've made mistakes and that some laws need to be corrected. these are fundamental laws that need to be corrected. secondly, why are we dealing with hungary? because we love hungary, because we love the people there, because it's an important country. you underestimate that. you underestimate the importance of hungary and the development of hungary for democracy. that's the key. it is not hungary that we are criticizing, but your policies. the president of the house has already said, and i would say it even more forcefully: do not abuse religion for political purposes! whatever our religious beliefs, we associate religion with tolerance. religion without tolerance is unacceptable, whether it is islam or a christian religion. that's the key. and lastly, you mentioned family. we all belong to families. you know very well that my family is part hungarian, part czech. and that's why my family is europe. i would be glad if you too would recognise that your family is europe. it should be the case that the family of a hungarian prime minister is also europe. that is what i am fighting for in this house and what we are fighting for in europe. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 14 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. mr weber, i would like you to listen. i didn't tell you not to. but only because here it is always done as if we were against hungary. and the second question i ask you and other colleagues is: why is such a policy not being pursued in poland? why is such a policy not being pursued in germany? because it's not part of her setup, and i appreciate that. i would like to ask you to take the opportunity to express your views on the commission's proposal. i would like to ask you to stop defending an attitude which undermines democracy. why don't you defend attitudes that strengthen democracy? i would like the epp to do the same.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. it shows us, unfortunately, that this issue is gradually slipping away from the political agenda. we have all tried to do our best, the colleagues who are here. we were partly involved in durban and you, commissioner, did a lot of work there. i would like to congratulate you on having put together such an agreement, this durban platform, under these conditions. it was very difficult for me. the headwinds came from all over. it has come from china, the united states and india, above all, and yet we europeans have assumed the role we have always attributed to ourselves. it will now depend on how the next few years go on whether we really get to that binding global agreement we have set out to achieve in 2015. it will be up to us to convince the other states that action is necessary. in europe, we now have a consensus in most countries that climate change is very good for the economy and we need to remain competitive, but also remain competitive by investing in climate-relevant technologies. this is a fact that has been recognized in most countries. we can build on that. only the big emitters like china and the us understand these arguments. i would ask you to make the specific proposal you have promised, particularly on f-gases, in the near future: we must involve aviation. and please also consider what we can do in the area of ground-level ozone, soot particles, so that we can have an overall strategy. but once again, commissioner, i must congratulate you on what you have done in durban.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the world climate summit ended with a compromise once again. but we must ask ourselves how long our planet will tolerate such a lazy compromise in the face of a continuing rapid growth in population and increasing environmental pressures. i welcome the decision to negotiate a global climate treaty in three years' time, aimed at reducing harmful greenhouse gases, and which will then include for the first time major emerging countries such as china, india, brazil and south africa. the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol from 2013 was also another step in the right direction. the green climate fund, with a budget of 100 billion dollars by 2020, is also worth mentioning. but leading scientists are predicting global warming of at least 3.5 degrees with the known effects. i rate durban as a reminder to us that we must meet our 2020 target of reducing greenhouse gases.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the end, the longest climate conference ever produced mainly one thing: hot air. the eu and other kyoto countries have committed to new climate targets for 2013, but these countries account for just 15% of global greenhouse gas emissions. the number one polluters, china and the us, have not signed the kyoto protocol, nor have they been willing to agree on common targets for 2013 in durban. we must therefore think carefully about what we could do ourselves. for example, subsidy policy in transport and agriculture. as long as imported kiwis are so cheap that native fruit rots in the ground, as long as animals are transported across europe, we will continue to have unnecessary environmental problems. we must rely on our regional economic cycles and not kill our industry, because it will not be able to compete internationally if other global players do not play by the rules or do not accept them.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to thank karl-heinz florenz and also the commission for the work that has been done here. this is a recast, as we know, and the current directive came into force on 13 february 2003 - almost 10 years ago. unfortunately, we have actually achieved relatively little, if we take the eu average. karl-heinz has mentioned some figures from different member states, and as i said, the differences are extreme. so if i say, for example, romania collected 0.8 kg, liechtenstein 1.4 kg, although it is not a member state, it does not work very well there either, whereas germany collected 7.8 kg, the czech republic 4.3 kg and the north very successful in collecting. we have to be clear: if we are not able to build a circulatory system in our economy, then we simply will not be able to do it in the long run because the earth will not give away as many raw materials. the commissioner has now made the statement that ecodesign must also include recycling, i.e. the time after the product has been used, in the design phase. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. among other things, this lack of link to the ecodesign directive. but the rigid collection target of 4 kg is also not, of course, in keeping with the economic development of the individual member states. the current approach, as contained in the new proposal, with 65% of the devices placed on the market and 85% of the eeag generated after the transition phase, is certainly much more sensible. the ability of member states to set up efficient collection systems will also be decisive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. and this also expressly includes the responsibility of the consumers to do something themselves. picking up at the front door is not part of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the system is properly implemented. and i also trust the commission to keep a close eye on this so that we can achieve these collection targets. in the long term, our only chance is to provide these necessary resources for industry and to maintain the environment in the condition we need.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank christa klaß for the work she has done here. it was a very difficult dossier and we struggled for a long time before we found a common line here, especially between the various groups. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. achieving this balance is the great challenge. it is not clear to our consumers why some substances should be more dangerous in some member states than in others. that is why it is also a matter of the internal market that we are bringing about this european approval. it's very important that we move forward here and make it clear to consumers: the single market should also apply to this important area. and what is dangerous and prohibited in denmark should not be allowed in another member state, such as italy or portugal. we have also clearly defined the substances for which we are in favour of derogations, so that member states which want to go a step further can really go further. i think that is why we have done our job of ensuring a high level of environmental and consumer protection, while at the same time recognizing the specificities of the member states. the importance of the subject is also shown by the fact that in our daily lives today - it can be said - there is hardly an object that has not been treated with these substances. there have also been rumors lately that there are problems at various hotels in this beautiful city, where it seems certain animals are also making a fuss. we can see that there may be some need to take action against these little animals. that was just a marginal mention. the fact is that we want to create this single market. the fact is that we are also in favour of all products entering our market being treated only with substances that have been approved by the eu. so there is no preference for imports. it is also important for our consumers to know this. we've also been looking at the animal studies. here results must also be copied by other producers in order to use the least possible number of animals. it's a compromise, all in all. i think all the groups have worked well together and christa klaß has done a very good job here.
i have to say, madam president, i think it is very positive that a new own-initiative report is now dealing with the problems in the areas which are close to agriculture. i think that in this connection particular attention should be paid to reducing the cost of the means of production. it is well known that in recent years they have increased disproportionately in relation to agricultural income. for example, energy costs in agriculture increased by around 60% between 2000 and 2010, while producer prices increased by only 25%. the establishment of a price monitoring centre, as proposed by the rapporteur, is certainly the right way forward. the aim must be to increase competition among producers of farm implements and thus to achieve more attractive prices for farmers. as you know, farmers are already trying to increase cooperation between themselves in some areas, to exploit their potential for improving efficiency. in the medium and long term, however, it will be necessary, especially for farmers who work according to ecological and biological principles, to create a better price climate for their products in order to ensure their long-term survival, especially in the peripheral alpine regions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the cost pressure on our agricultural producers is enormous. agricultural inputs - seeds, fertilisers and animal feed - and also work equipment are becoming more and more expensive. one of the biggest cost drivers is energy costs. in order not only to control costs but also to reduce dependence, an energy action plan calling for action by all policy areas is urgently needed. renewable energy sources such as wind, water and renewable raw materials from biomass have great potential. this renewable energy mix can help to close the supply gap in a sustainable way. we must mobilise all available resources, but at the same time we must also be more efficient. improved management of resources of humus and water, energy and nutrients must not continue to be a hollow slogan. another factor of operational uncertainty is the massive price fluctuations. operators need the tools to plan for the long term. a monitoring system for capital costs can be a good measure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. it can't be that bets are made on higher food prices. this problem is well known and will not go away by itself. the impact is felt by farmers with low farm incomes and consumers with higher prices on the shelf. increased food prices do not affect farmers' incomes. the winners are at the end of the supply chain: manufacturing and trade. there must be a fair distribution of profits along the entire production chain! another factor which must be combated in terms of high costs is europe's enormous dependence on imports of raw materials and capital from third countries. the economic and environmental challenges and the extreme cost pressures in agriculture can only be met by long-term investment in raw material supply, farm development, research and innovation. these solutions must also be reflected in the reform of the common agricultural policy. the new cap must enable farmers to exploit their full potential. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i don't think i understood the question.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i think the answer to that question is quite simple. the aim is not to impede or restrict free trade or free markets, but to curb the completely unethical trade in derivatives, products which do not actually exist and which are partly traded on a high-frequency basis throughout the world. it's very simple.
the commission has already done so. if the speed of implementation of the proposals in the bové report matches the speed of mr silvestris's presentation, we shall be fine in the future. the situation with food prices: we have been discussing for the last few days and are still discussing the fact that a third of the food in europe is thrown away without being consumed. we're discussing the fact that we're not meeting the biodiversity targets. we're discussing the fact that we're in an energy crisis. we are discussing the fact that many europeans cannot afford to buy food at the moment. and we are right to argue that those who produce this food can no longer live off it and that we can speak of a large-scale death of farmers in europe. the opposite is concentrated in production, in capital goods and, above all, in trade. if i take austria as an example, we have about 77% in the hands of three companies in trade. but what we want on the other hand is not concentration in agriculture, but here we also want biodiversity in the forms of farming. we need these opportunities to produce healthy, safe, hygienic food. the commission has already made a number of proposals in the bové report, and the cap reform provides further possibilities. let us proceed with the implementation at the same speed as mr silvestris has been talking about.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to congratulate mr steve tolan, as chairman of the european parliament's stoa committee, he is the programme director of the chipembele wildlife education trust in zambia on receiving the sustainable energy prize from the european parliament's stoa committee. he's here in the gallery, and i'd like to ask that we all applaud him.
in writing. − the abolition of the visa requirement was already a concern in 2009 for some countries, such as bosnia and herzegovina and albania. the amendment now also includes northern cyprus, romania and bulgaria in this catalogue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the accession of cyprus to the european union is not delayed. romania and bulgaria, however, are far from having a functioning, corruption-free state, which could reduce the crime rate. we must fear a massive increase in crime, human trafficking and immigration from these countries. i voted against it for these reasons.
in writing. − there is no need to check third-country nationals holding a valid visa from an eu member state a second time by means of a transit visa, as the possible risk of illegal immigration has already been assessed in advance during the visa issuance process. it is therefore urgently necessary to amend the regulation to this effect, not least in order to reduce the administrative burden on member state authorities.
in writing. − georgia has become an increasingly important export partner for the eu over the last decade. in particular, wine, which has traditionally been exported mainly to russia, is increasingly produced by european companies and also distributed throughout europe. the eu and georgia have already concluded an agreement in 1999 on the mutual protection of geographical indications for most agricultural products, especially wine, which now forms the basis for further agreements with georgia. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome. the eu has also been active in the field of human rights since the early 1990s. i have abstained because the report does not clearly indicate what benefits will accrue to the eu member states in the long run.
in writing. − the eu has concluded an agreement with georgia on the mutual protection of geographical indications for a wide range of agricultural products, including cheeses, oils and fats, bread and bakery products, fruit, vegetables, cereals, fresh meat and meat products, fresh fish and seafood, wine, spirits and beer. with its accession to the wto, georgia has also become a party to the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips agreement). accordingly, georgia is obliged to recognise place names as geographical indications indicating the origin and quality of the product. on this basis, an agreement was concluded to promote mutual trade in agricultural products and foodstuffs, in particular georgian wine. european companies have been investing more and more in georgian wine and spirits production for some time. the protection of geographical indications for agricultural products is of central importance for high-quality products from the eu. the agreement in question, however, mainly supports georgian wine production, but the concrete benefits for european producers are less apparent. i therefore abstained.
in writing. − in the light of the planned eu-georgia free trade agreement, there is an urgent need to improve trade relations. the agreement on the mutual protection of geographical indications and products is a first step in this direction. the agreement ensures that the quality and origin characteristics of both parties are respected and that geographical indications protected in the eu are also recognised in georgia. i agreed to it.
in writing. − harmonised rules on motor vehicle regulations can be beneficial for road safety, environmental protection and trade. type-approvals under unece regulations, i.e. ec type-approvals and those based on internationally agreed standards, allow the same standards to be applied in many countries, thus avoiding duplication, reducing administrative burdens and potentially enhancing the competitiveness of european industry. while measures to reduce red tape and simplify administration are welcome in principle, in some areas the eu is playing a pioneering role in security, and this should not be exploited. i therefore abstained.
in writing. − fair international trade and thus distributed access to welfare as well as a strong european automotive industry form part of the focus of this report on which i fully agree. therefore i voted in favour of it. its adoption will improve market access and enhance the european union’s automotive industry competitiveness.
in writing. − harmonised vehicle regulations can be beneficial for road safety, environmental protection and trade. several directives concerning the type-approval of motor vehicles, motor vehicle trailers and systems, components and separate technical units are to be replaced by references to the corresponding unece regulations. while measures to reduce red tape and simplify administration are welcome in principle, in some areas the eu is playing a pioneering role in security, and this should not be exploited. i therefore abstained.
in writing. − pedestrian safety, especially with ever increasing traffic, is of high importance to the european union and its citizens and therefore this report has to be supported, which i did by my vote in favour. any technical means like leds which support pedestrian safety have to be utilised.
in writing. the eu commission has negotiated an agreement replacing certain clauses in the 19 bilateral air transport agreements between eu member states and indonesia. the main objectives are: to ensure non-discriminatory access to the routes for all eu air carriers; the safety rules are not to be limited to the member state in which the air carrier has its registered office; the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the eu-indonesia association agreement on the development of the indonesian aviation industry. i did not vote for the report because i think that the eu is interfering too much with the bilateral agreements of the individual member states with the clauses that it is proposing to replace.
in writing. − the replacement of the national designation clauses by an eu designation clause will ensure non-discriminatory access for all eu air carriers to routes between the member states and indonesia, thus guaranteeing freedom of establishment. the agreement also provides for improved security provisions.
in writing. − the international civil aviation organization is a specialised agency of nato. the aim of this cooperation is to facilitate the exchange of personal data. the eu is providing the means to make this possible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are respected. this memorandum is another step towards the glass man. not only does the eu have to release the data, it also pays for the structural framework. as i am in favour of protecting the data of our citizens, i am against it.
in writing. − the aim of this cooperation agreement is to formalise and deepen relations and cooperation between the eu and the international civil aviation organisation (icao), a specialised nato agency: the aim is to facilitate the exchange of personal data. to make this possible, the eu is to provide annual financial support of eur 500 000. in addition, the member states and the european aviation safety agency are encouraged to increase this amount. it is unthinkable that the eu should continue to transfer data of innocent citizens to the us under the guise of fighting terrorism. and it is hard to see how the eu can be expected to pay for the data transfer! i voted against this report in the interests of civil rights and data protection.
in writing. − the icao has an important role in the coordination of air traffic, thus serving aviation and passenger security, air traffic management, environmental protection and efficiency to the benefit of air passengers and airlines. i voted in favour of this opinion because it is obvious that the european union should support icao fully.
in writing. - the illegal trade in electronic waste is booming. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. in germany alone, around 700 000 tonnes of e-waste were generated in 2010. 155 000 tonnes of it is illegally shipped to countries like ghana every year. either waste pickers, who have already been paid by the equipment manufacturers for recycling, are handing the scrap to retailers, or citizens are being stopped at the gates of the municipal recycling yards and the equipment is bought off for a few euros. the new e-waste directive is intended to provide the authorities with a legally binding basis for defining clearly what constitutes waste and what constitutes a second-hand product. when refrigerators or mobile phones are discontinued, expensive raw materials such as gold, copper or silver are to be reused in europe. in addition, proper recycling reduces the poisoning of people and the environment by e-waste. the aim of the directive is a noble one, and it remains to be seen what effect it will have in practice. if dealers are not allowed to take back used equipment, it is feared that a lot of electrical waste will be dumped illegally. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. − our ever-increasing world population and growing wealth, for example in china and latin america, are leading to an ever-increasing consumption of electronics and electricity. we know the dramatic problem of rare earths in computers and mobile phones. for this reason, every effort should be made to avoid wasting precious raw materials and to promote recycling and reuse. i therefore voted in favour of mr florenz's report.
in writing. − biocides are active substances and preparations containing one or more active substances, in the form in which they reach the user, which are intended to destroy, deter, render harmless, prevent harm from harmful organisms or otherwise combat them by chemical or biological means. the relevant eu directive explains this definition in detail. biocidal products are used in a wide range of sectors and applications, such as wood preservatives. the eu biocidal products directive therefore distinguishes 23 product types into four main groups (disinfectants and general biocidal products; means of protection; pesticides; or other biocidal products). biocidal products will be subject to a national authorisation/registration procedure in each eu member state from 2009 onwards, based on an official evaluation of their efficacy and their risks to humans, animals and the environment. this is to avoid inadequate efficacy and unacceptable effects when used properly. a biocidal product authorisation shall also include mandatory labelling particulars and, where appropriate, conditions of use. in the report i voted in favour of the amendments to the original draft, as i consider it important that the active substances which are subject to a simplified authorisation procedure are now listed in the annex to the regulation.
in writing. − a central community authorisation system for biocidal products is an important step towards a harmonised european market in this field. it is the most efficient solution to improve the availability of these products, to stimulate innovation and to ensure effective protection of human health and the environment. a central community authorisation further guarantees consistent assessments and uniform requirements in all member states, leading to a higher level of consumer protection.
in writing. - the growing gap between the cost of capital and production on the one hand and producer prices on the other is threatening the viability of european farmers. the aim is to reduce farmers' costs of energy, feed, fertilisers and seeds, to use production resources efficiently and sustainably and to reduce farmers' dependence on large corporations. farmers also need support to make their farms more environmentally friendly. investments in this area pay off in the long run, as environmental damage is usually associated with high costs.
in writing. - unfortunately, there are still significant imbalances in the food chain, due to the excessive concentration of bargaining power by some large groups. this in turn is reflected in unfair trading practices such as late payments, unilateral contract changes, unfair contractual terms, market access restrictions, non-transparent pricing, retail price fixing, purchasing associations and, last but not least, the unequal distribution of profit margins throughout the food chain. there is an urgent need to make competition enforcement more efficient in this sector in order to detect and prevent abuse of market power and cartels. in addition, the bargaining power of agricultural producers and processors, in particular small farmers and smes in the food chain, should be strengthened as regards the level of prices in the value chain. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. − the prices paid by final consumers are increasingly out of line with the prices paid to farmers for the production of their products, which is increasingly forcing farmers to abandon their activities. the survival of european farms is of the utmost importance for the european food supply. measures should therefore be taken to ensure a fairer distribution of profits in the food supply chain. i therefore agreed.
in writing. − it is essential to ensure the eu's competitiveness in the global satellite navigation sector. the share of european industry in the world market is small. the basis for this is currently provided mainly by simple position and time signals and telecommunications services, which account for at least 75% of the market. 20% for intelligent road transport systems and 5% for other applications the implementation of the galileo project will also create quality jobs and ensure independence from us or chinese systems. i abstained because i believe that in times of economic stagnation, which is to be feared, the proposed budget of eur 7 billion and, as the report says, quite certainly beyond that is too high.
in writing. - around one billion people in the world are hungry. at the same time, food is being wasted around the world: in the field, in the production of arginine, in the processing, in the distribution and finally in the final consumer himself. in this connection, there are already praiseworthy initiatives in individual countries where food that would be thrown away in shops is distributed to social institutions. while in the high-tech countries waste is generated in processing and consumption, it is time for developing countries to work on efficient transport and safe storage of agricultural products. the waste in the production chain may be contained by law in our latitudes, but the throwaway mentality of our modern society certainly cannot. i am not familiar with this draft, and i have therefore abstained.
in writing. - since 1974, global food waste has increased by 50%. not only does this contrast starkly with world hunger, but it also causes high and unnecessary environmental costs through the production, processing and disposal of food that is thrown away. it is therefore high time that the commission, the council and the member states adopt concrete strategies to combat this problem. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. i agreed to it.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the media today report that the unemployment rate in the eurozone is climbing to its highest level in thirteen years. and what does the council offer us? a treaty outside the normal community method, wrong in its direction and uncertain whether it will ever enter into force. the division and cacophony in the european union continue. especially when i think that there was this abstruse idea of appointing an eu or state commissioner for greece who would subvert the democratic institutions in greece. my group is vehemently opposed to the patronage of democracy and the citizens in greece by a state commissioner. that should be clear. (applause from the centre) the situation is also the consequence of the way in which chancellor merkel misunderstands germany's leadership role. i am committed to the leadership of germany as a large, strong, political and economic country. but the role of leadership should be to weld the eu together, not to divide it further. as the handelsblatt - a left-wing newspaper - writes: "the german road does not lead to europe at the moment, but it should lead to europe!" (applause from the centre) if i may give mrs merkel a piece of advice: she should look for a new partner, because the future president of france is françois hollande. we support the future president and, above all, his intention to renegotiate this treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. so we need to reorient ourselves. but it's also the content that's not right. i think that the commission has already done so. these council decisions do not help the countries, and they do not help the markets to achieve greater stability. we need to bring money out of the financial markets into the real economy, primarily through a financial transaction tax. we must give the european investment bank more credit. we have to give money to the lower income groups. they need the money and they'd spend it. that's the target direction! mr president-in-office, i do not deny that there have been some positive elements. they are also concerned with unemployment, especially youth unemployment. but can you explain to me why we have binding contracts and sanctions against deficit offenders? when it comes to youth unemployment, there are lame explanations and recommendations. this is an imbalance which we cannot accept! (applause from the centre) in conclusion, i would like to thank president buzek for insisting that a parliamentary team be allowed to negotiate. i would like to thank the negotiators. you've avoided some big mistakes. but i would like to thank our president martin schulz above all. they have found the right words and the right tone so that we can be heard in the european union, as the president of the commission has said. we must not allow the misguided nature of this treaty to become the rule. if it is ever to be adopted and come into force, it must remain the exception. in this sense, dear martin schulz, one regrets who one has chosen. in this sense, those who did not vote for martin schulz must regret not having done so. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. (applause) 'the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.'
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not one question has already been answered. the citizens will vote, but it is quite clear how they will vote. and if mr sarkozy is already talking about what he will do in his private job after the election, then he has actually already acknowledged how the election will turn out. on the other question, i want to be very clear. for me and my group, youth unemployment is a european issue. we cannot tolerate this. and the reason youth unemployment is so high is because we trusted too much in market forces and didn't think that sometimes you have to take action. look at the countries with low unemployment. come to austria, i'll invite you. we have one of the lowest unemployment rates because unemployment is a disgrace for us - and for the ppp colleagues too. it is a shame that young people have to start their jobs with unemployment, and we cannot tolerate that. (applause from the centre)
in writing. – the fiscal stability pact fails to provide effective measures to tackle a major problem europeans face as one of many consequences of the economic and social crisis. a main focus must be in the fight against unemployment, especially youth unemployment, which continues to increase. as this forms one of the rights of the eu and is enshrined in the lisbon treaty, it is both unacceptable and irresponsible that this burning issue is so neglected. the focus in this time of uncertainty should be on solidarity and growth, to protect and support the europeans most affected by the crisis. in greece, for example, the ranks of those in poverty swell whilst the supply of social services is slashed – forsaking those in most need of help is not the way to induce recovery and growth. moreover, it is not fair. we need to focus on the social consequences of the crisis; this involves giving hope and support to especially the younger generations. there are some positive signals, but they are negligible as methods to stimulate growth. additionally, the pact is to be condemned as it represents an infringement of the community method.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the current iranian regime is an unjust regime, which is beyond question for me. and as an austrian, i can demand a nuclear-weapon-free iran without any double standards. but the fact is that there is no evidence of iran's nuclear weapons program at this time. the current iaea report only talks about a possible military dimension. and a recent us study also speaks of limited possibilities for uranium enrichment for military purposes. it is also true that we must, in any case, thwart and prevent a military solution based on false arguments. so my question to mrs ashton is, what exactly is your plan b? in case the sanctions don't work. in case the sanctions don't bring the desired measures. then what is your plan? secondly, i have a question about camp ashraf. the deadline has been postponed. camp ashraf is to be relocated. it is proposed that european states grant asylum to members or persons from camp ashraf, namely those persons who have a european past. is that proposal still on the table? what do you think of this proposal?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on friday, tehran is expected to pass an emergency law that will stop oil supplies to the eu with immediate effect. this means that all member states which have agreed to a boycott of iranian oil supplies will be immediately excluded from supply. and this despite the fact that the eu has contracts running until july. in the short term, however, the eu embargo will hit the civilian population. in the medium term, the laughing third will be china, which will be able to cover its energy deficit with the help of the european quota which is being released. this would offset the losses caused by the eu embargo and ultimately avoid pressure from tehran. the oil boycott would not have the desired effect and the eu would be further behind in geostrategic terms. we should listen more to competent exiled iranians who warn that boycott measures will hit the wrong people because it will bring solidarity in the country. the eu should therefore act with restraint and prevent any escalation by all means. the aim, of course, would be a complete nuclear-weapon-free middle east. and of course, israel's security must be guaranteed at all costs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the middle east is a vital region for europe and the world. the european union is not a party to the peace process, but it is a party to the peace process. the current government of iran is doing everything it can to accelerate the development: its nuclear arms race, its threat to israel's existence and its support for terrorist activities in the region. the international community and the european union have repeatedly warned iran of this. the iranian government has dismissed this warning and ridiculed all efforts to find a diplomatic solution. the eu sanctions are therefore a logical step. understandable and consistent if the policy of bringing iran to the negotiating table continues. this policy can be called "sugar loaf and whips". right now, the whip is obviously at work. but we should also remember to make the carrots visible right now. this would, above all, strengthen the opposition in iran and put pressure on the regime from within. in the interests of coherence and continuity of european policy, it is important to do everything possible to prevent the conflict from escalating into a military conflict. there are plenty of historical examples on this continent. a war would have devastating consequences for the people of iran, for the region, especially for israel, and it would set the region back decades. in this sense, it is important to do everything possible to prevent us from slipping into a military conflict, because war is not the answer.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union's embargo decision can easily become a door of ownership; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. or if iran blocks the world's most important oil route with the strait of hormuz, then we have a veritable oil crisis. we know that weapons of mass destruction have already been used as a pretext for a pre-emptive military strike, which is questionable under international law. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. but just as we must reject military pre-emptive strikes which are contrary to international law, we must also reject the clandestine construction of nuclear weapons, and we must all - including in europe - ask ourselves how we can guarantee the security of, say, israel in these circumstances.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that this debate is very important for all of us, because the european model has abandoned the war model and has sought the peace model, namely negotiations. that is why it is important to find partners in iran who are willing to talk. i know that there are many in the iranian parliament who do not agree with the current policy. i think it is urgent to say that cooperation is always the basis and the offer for future peaceful cooperation. trade is also the basis for democracy, because of course friendships in sport and culture allow and tolerate different opinions. i think it's important to promote this discussion among the iranian people and to challenge the iranian people. we do not need sanctions against citizens, but we need sanctions against those who abuse the law.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we should not necessarily overestimate the revolutionary mood in russia. unlike in arabia, the protesters are not students who have brought about a rapid radicalization of these movements, but the russian middle class. the protest movement also lacks more prominent political leaders. and last but not least, the rejection is often not aimed directly at putin, but at the corrupt local authorities. so unless he makes another big mistake, putin will be back as president. that's as sure as the amen in prayer. but there is no doubt that russia is in great need of catching up on democracy and human rights. this is not surprising, considering the major problems russia faces because of its 70-year communist past. however, progress and compromises are evident in areas such as party legislation and the fight against corruption. but the eu is not without flaws either. we too have democratic deficits. we too have a constant threat to freedom of expression. and in the eu, too, there is pressure on the media. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not i'd like to congratulate you on your new position. we are proud to have a strong president again. i would like to ask mr cutaş whether he believes that russia could compensate for the quantities of oil supplies which are no longer available to us via iran.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in the plenary next week in strasbourg, february ii. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. there is no doubt that russian democracy is still in its infancy, as the recent elections have shown. and no doubt 70 years of soviet rule have left their mark on us to this day. russia is being reprimanded by the eu again and again, but without setting a good example: the left-wing campaign of incitement against the hungarian government is just one example of how "serious" europe really is about democracy and freedom of expression. patriotic movements that are not in sync with the brussels mainstream are regularly subjected to political and media incitement. we should not, therefore, be bossy in pointing the finger at others! given the mutual interests in the energy sector, the eu must ensure that major groups such as gazprom also comply with the competition rules in the energy market. on the other hand, moscow's interests in the post-soviet market should not be ignored.
the next item is the report by mr saryusz-wolski, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu's external policy towards the brics and other emerging economies (a7-0010/2012) [2011/2111 (ini) ]
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report on the european dimension of sport is of particular importance to society. article 165 tfeu covers the new competence of the eu in the field of sport. the importance of sport for our society, whether in promoting health, tolerance, economy, tourism or organisation, can be followed very well in my home country, the state of salzburg. in our country, sports activities are a regular part of the family's schedule, both in summer and in winter. i also think that this report is particularly important in terms of the importance of sport for our elderly citizens and the need to increase the representation of women in sport's decision-making bodies. the explicit mention and constructive suggestions for solutions to doping and corruption in sport are hopefully only this time around, and there will be an improvement soon. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. two billion tonnes of waste, including 40 million tonnes of special waste, are generated in the eu every year. this makes the role of india and china as waste producers relative in terms of population. although north america, western europe, japan, and korea are known to be leaders in recycling, they still collect more waste than any other region of the earth. the development associated with increasing disposal costs should not be underestimated. in the united states, electronics manufacturers save on disposal costs by shipping their electronic waste to africa or other areas of the third world as so-called development aid. not to mention the countless tons of german pet bottles that are processed in china without costly environmental and worker protection regulations into stuffing for stuffed animals or even later end up in western clothing. in addition, many materials can only be recycled in a limited number of processes or only to a small extent. downcycling is as much a problem as waste shipments across europe and the black sheep who illegally dump waste. increasing recycling rates, therefore, may be helpful in combination with strong controls on exports of electronic waste and cost-sharing with polluters. much more important, however, are measures to prevent waste. in this context, the eu has not exactly made a name for itself with the regulation of toxic energy-saving lamps. we must also not forget that the disposal of nuclear waste is still not resolved. all the more reason not to build any more nuclear power plants!
question for the commissioner: i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask my colleague mr boulland how he thinks we can go from this waste chain - which is in fact a chain of raw materials and added value - to a so-called value chain in the future, with increased waste separation. do you think that the horizon 2020 research programme could provide a basis for reusing these resources in a meaningful way?
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation. i would like to thank mr lehne and mrs thein in particular, but also mr boulland, the author of the opinion in the employment committee, who has brought some interesting and very useful aspects to the relocation plan and to the involvement of workers and their representatives. the draft report was adopted unanimously by the legal affairs committee and the opinion by an overwhelming majority in the employment committee. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the question of seating and the question of worker participation. a company wishing to move its head office from one eu country to another faces a challenge. it is legally obliged to completely dismantle its tents in order to rebuild them in another eu country. it will have to give up its legal personality in 2012 in the context of the eu's single market. this means that it costs time, money, nerves and is also associated with social costs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it has repeatedly called on the commission to take legislative action. what are the implications for businesses? companies are simply fleeing. there is a competition between national company law forms - limited versus limited liability company - and we have many examples here. they're escaping in mergers, which means there's a race to the bottom. i don't want to do that! i don't want to have a so-called delaware effect. that means we need a directive, a 14th company law directive on the relocation of head offices. but the seat movement should be orderly, not cowboy style. i don't want to rush into a business venture where half of the people are left behind. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. now, to the two main problems that we are dealing with here. first, on the issue of employee participation: employee participation contributes to the sustainable success of companies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this means respect for information and consultation and participation by workers and their representatives. in fact, as i said to the commission, this means that, if necessary, negotiations on a catch-up solution are necessary to protect existing participation rights. i can think of one example of best practice. we already have regulations in connection with the european joint stock company. now, to the question of seating, the second hot potato we're talking about here. there are countries in the european union which allow the separation of the administrative and the statutory seat and those which do not. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the financial interests of the european communities. the report states that we do not want tax evasion, we do not want the abuse of letterbox companies to circumvent legal, social and tax conditions. what we want is a practical solution. we have solved this problem in a rather solomonic way in the report. commissioner, please instruct mr barnier, who is responsible for this, to finally take action, and to focus on the core area, on the joint siting, that is to say, those policy areas where all the states can ultimately agree. the economic activity in the host country is the subject of the report. the single market can contribute to the economic growth we need today more than ever. so do not hesitate to put forward a proposal at last, and please do not repeat the mistakes made by european private society.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. humanitarian aid is a very, very important issue. the european union and its member states are the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid. the echo directorate-general manages around 36% of this, which was around eur 1.1 billion in 2010. echo has only a coordinating role and the implementation on the ground is in principle carried out by partners, i.e. ngos, sometimes un agencies, but also international organisations. the fact is, humanitarian aid is meant for the world's most needy people, and any inefficiency and ineffectiveness costs lives. this was also the starting point for my own-initiative report. the european parliament must finally, after seven years, once again check how effective and efficient the controls, the monitoring mechanisms and, finally, the implementation are. as regards cooperation between dg echo and ngos, the conclusion is that dg echo ensures a very high level of accountability. there is a very good and continuous dialogue between the ngos and echo. in addition, the 2008 fpa, the framework agreement, has made some progress. there is a revision this year and this course should of course be continued. it is also important to focus on reducing administrative burdens in the future. i think cooperation with the un is a little more critical. the common method of budget implementation has serious shortcomings in this area as regards the reliability of the control of the management of funds. i believe that the principle of 'one check' is right in principle. nevertheless, transparency is a must. this means, firstly, that the european parliament should have access to all un audit reports. that is not the case at present. i believe that this is not enough to enable the european parliament to fulfil its role as a monitoring body. secondly, the narrative reports submitted to the commission on implementation are, in my view, very vague as regards the outcome. they should have more substance. and third, on the reform of the un: this reform was initiated after the scandal with the north korean government. the commission has not yet made any progress in this area in terms of transparency and accountability. the member states are certainly called upon to put pressure on the un. there are some weaknesses in the implementation with ngos, especially in the procurement procedures of individual ngos. they are not sufficient, or in some cases there are no procurement procedures at all in the ngos. there are also shortcomings in the internal control mechanisms. although ngos or partners may delegate tasks, they are responsible for managing these funds themselves. it is therefore important that there are appropriate internal control mechanisms. the costs of support vary widely between similar projects. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the future, it is certainly important to continue to focus on sustainability and prevention. this is where disaster prevention should be used, for example, by setting up early warning systems. in addition, the transition from humanitarian to development aid should be improved, and finally it is also important to improve the resilience of local populations through the development of local structures. the report was adopted by a large majority in the committee and i would of course be very pleased if there was a majority for this report in the plenary today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have here a report which shows that the european union has assumed a great responsibility in the world. the aid measures we are introducing should be sustainable, and we should make sure that the aid measures actually give the population a return on investment. that is why the new development strategy is also to look at how we can provide energy in the poorest of the poor, because the supply of energy ultimately includes the necessary training for the population, because communication is also the basis for a successful strategy, and we must therefore look at how we can make the resources of this world sustainable. the report has made a good point here: that control in this area also needs to be improved and that we should actually work on finding a model here that gives us a lasting chance of using aid as efficiently as possible.
in writing. as violent actors in war zones flout the basic humanitarian rules of international law, humanitarian aid can all too easily become a pawn in the hands of the warring parties. the allegation that aid deliveries, when they become a regular source of income for warring groups, enable wars to continue, thus fuelling the suffering that necessitates humanitarian aid, is to be taken seriously. for example, paying tolls to local warlords to reach out to the needy is a lazy compromise. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the common transport policy. aid organisations are questionable if they do not coordinate with each other, just so that each organisation can make money from donors and become effective in the media field alone. better coordination of humanitarian efforts could have prevented much suffering in haiti. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. corruption spreads as long as the risk of detection and punishment is low. it is time for the eu, as the largest humanitarian donor, to finally address these issues.
in writing. − it is important to note that the bric countries, i.e. china, india, russia and brazil, as well as other developing countries such as mexico, turkey and indonesia, already play an important role in world trade. the eu countries are not economically alone and the recent economic crisis has made the interdependence of the countries clear. it is therefore very important to improve and extend economic relations with the countries mentioned above. the eu should not, however, be too closely aligned with the ideas and initiatives of the united states. i am afraid that this proposal will strengthen the us hegemony, which in turn could mean a stagnation in the development of trade with the bric countries. the eu must develop its own initiatives and not be too intimidated by its big neighbour across the ocean. i am in favour of improving trade relations with the bric countries, but these should be primarily geared to the interests of the eu. unfortunately, the report does not mention this enough, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - relations with the brics countries must be extended from a purely economic level to a political one. this is particularly important in the context of transnational challenges such as climate change, terrorism, resource scarcity and ensuring international stability. it is important that the eu acts as a coherent economic and political force in its relations with the brics countries.
in writing. − the eu's sanctions policy against authoritarian regimes is only credible if member states speak with one voice and there are clear criteria as to when restrictive measures such as asset freezes are necessary. authoritarian leaders and their partners must not be allowed to own property, invest money or train in european institutions within the eu. i therefore agreed.
in writing. − the crossborder transfer of a company's registered office from one member state to another is associated with bureaucratic red tape, legal uncertainty and costs. of course, there are also social effects which the workers feel. although the court of justice has concluded that better harmonisation of the rules is necessary, this is still a matter for the legislator. finally, the aim is to prevent the abuse of letterbox companies and shell companies to circumvent legal, social and tax conditions. the court of justice in particular has not necessarily taken the side of the workers in this context in the past, most recently in its judgment on chain contracts. i cannot therefore agree to the proposed amendments.
in writing. − a directive on the transnational transfer of the seat of a company is essential if the freedom of establishment, as one of the fundamental pillars of the internal market, is to be able to have its full effect. european companies should be able to move their headquarters to another member state without the need for prior liquidation. at the same time, the relocation of the company's headquarters must ensure that labour standards and the principles of employee participation are maintained.
in writing. − together, the european commission and the member states of the european union make up the world's largest community of humanitarian aid providers, year after year. this amount amounted to eur 2957 million in 2010, of which about one third was used under the european commission's grant. the european commission's echo directorate-general is responsible for implementing the union's aid policy, which is delivered to those in need through 200 partner organisations, un specialised agencies and ngos. it is of the utmost importance that the use of community funds allocated to assistance is properly monitored by the competent bodies of the union, in which the european parliament has a key role. i fully support the report unanimously adopted by the committee on budgetary control in which the rapporteur summarises the operation, effectiveness and results of the community's aid policy in the specific crises in pakistan and haiti.
in writing. − to illustrate the importance of humanitarian aid in the eu budget, it is worth mentioning that in 2010 €1.115 billion was allocated to it. the european commission's echo directorate-general manages the aid and is responsible for the management of the money. an important instrument for providing assistance is the conclusion of contracts with ngos. unfortunately, in the past, the kotrol mechanisms have been heavily criticized because tasks in this area are delegated to international organizations, each of which is subject only to its own control systems. the amendments in this report make the control system more transparent, more comprehensive and more general, which is why i have given my approval to this report.
in writing. − with a total of eur 2 957 million (in 2010), the eu is the world's largest donor of development aid. this total contribution is made up of contributions from the member states (64%) and the commission (36%). echo is the directorate-general (dg) responsible for the implementation of humanitarian aid and disaster response by the eu. dg echo operates internationally by supporting some 200 partners ngos, un agencies, international organisations worldwide. the actions are managed from the commission's headquarters in brussels through a network of more than 40 offices in all the areas of operation. the problem is that budget implementation and budgetary control in these areas is not centrally carried out by the commission, but is outsourced to various international organizations which carry it out in accordance with their own procedures of accounting, auditing and internal control. in accordance with the principle of the sole examination, the commission does not carry out any additional examinations. it shall confine itself to carrying out on-the-spot monitoring and verification visits. the european court of auditors has repeatedly criticised this delegation of administration for leading to a lack of coherence, a complex web of legislation and insufficient control and follow-up of the use of eu funds. i can therefore only welcome the commission's approach to this problem in the revision of the financial regulation.
in writing. − improving and making more transparent the allocation of funds under the echo programme is essential to ensure the efficient and economic use of eu budget funds. this is necessary in particular to avoid double financing. in selecting local ngo partners, cost-effectiveness must be considered alongside their expertise and past successes. humanitarian aid needs to be made more sustainable by focusing more on disaster prevention.
in writing. − it is important to minimise the possibility of abuse of the legal system and, where possible, to prevent it altogether. in this sense, the european legal traditions must be preserved. it is particularly in the area of class actions that a balance needs to be struck to avoid a flood of abusive and unfounded excesses. in this context, it is worth considering the possibility of extending the scope of out-of-court settlements, such as dispute mediation. finally, it is important to ensure that citizens and businesses are able to enforce their rights under union law effectively and efficiently. i approve of that.
in writing. − in the short term, the eu embargo will affect the civilian population. in the medium term, china will take the opportunity to meet its growing energy needs through the capacity that has become available. this would offset losses from the eu embargo and avoid pressure on tehran. the oil boycott would not have the desired effect and the eu would fall further behind in geostrategic terms. what competent exiled iranians warn will happen: it is the wrong people who are being targeted, and the anger towards the west will reach ever wider sections of the population. the eu should therefore act as a moderator on both sides and prevent any escalation by all means! the aim is basically a whole neighbouring area without nuclear weapons! but israel's security must be guaranteed at all costs! i voted against the motion for a resolution because it does not go in that direction.
in writing. − sport is an important economic driver worldwide and therefore certainly within the eu. in addition, sport promotes public health and makes a significant contribution to people's work-life balance. but in professional sports, there are also dark sides that should not be ignored. thus, doping is becoming a growing problem, one that threatens to spread to amateur sports. major sporting events promote national awareness and also national economy. the report did not receive my vote/i abstain, as there is a fear that further eu action could lead to less and less space being given to national consciousness, especially in the area of fantasy sports.
in writing. − sport is not only good for health but also promotes social inclusion by bringing together people from different social, ethnic and religious backgrounds. physical education should therefore be encouraged from the earliest childhood and be a fixed part of the curriculum in all educational institutions. for the same reasons, i also welcome the rapporteur's proposal to create a mobility programme for young athletes and coaches to strengthen the european dimension of sport.
in writing. - two billion tonnes of waste, including 40 million tonnes of special waste, are generated in the eu every year. increasing recycling rates may be helpful in combination with strong controls on exports of electronic waste and polluter-friendly cost recovery. however, this raises the risk that companies will save themselves increasing disposal costs and try to ship electronic waste to africa as 'development aid'. much more important are measures to prevent waste, and in this context the eu has not exactly made a name for itself with the regulation of toxic energy-saving light bulbs. i have taken these considerations into account in my voting behaviour.
in writing. - the eu generates a total of 2 billion tonnes of waste per year, of which 40 million tonnes are special waste, which is a very worrying amount, especially in terms of the number of inhabitants. if we continue like this, the rising cost of disposal will soon cause us to sink in our own garbage! or we could simply ship our e-waste like the us does to the third world as "development aid". in addition, many materials are only partially recyclable, as they undergo only a limited number of recycling processes or can only be recovered to a small extent. it is of key importance to tackle downcycling, the waste that is being transported or illegally dumped across europe. increasing recycling rates, therefore, may be helpful in combination with strong controls on exports of electronic waste and cost-sharing with polluters. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not only a matter of environmental protection but also of the protection of the environment. the energy-saving lamp regulation is having the opposite effect! in addition, nuclear power plants are not to be underestimated as producers of toxic waste, the final disposal of which remains unclear. i have therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. − the poor waste management in many member states is damaging the health of citizens and has a high environmental cost in the long term. the full implementation of eu secondary legislation in this area and more efficient monitoring by the commission are therefore urgently needed. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the waste management of waste.
in writing. − the daphne funding programmes allocate some eur 17 million annually to measures to combat violence against women, children and young people. these programmes are intended to support projects that deal with all aspects of violence, such as domestic or school violence, violence at work or sexual exploitation for commercial purposes, and trafficking in human beings. that is why i voted for the continuation of the daphne programmes.
in writing. − daphne is an eu programme co-financing projects to prevent violence against children, young people and women. the definition of violence is very broad and includes sexual abuse, domestic violence, economic exploitation, abduction, discrimination against disabled people, migrants, minorities and more. the current daphne iii programme has an annual budget of eur 16.7 million and is also receiving a great deal of positive feedback from outside the eu. i abstain because the report does not indicate what the problems mentioned in the interim report are and for which the commission is already considering measures, nor what those measures should be.
in writing. − the daphne programme has a 15-year track record of more than 500 projects to combat violence against women, children and young people. however, there is a need for greater involvement of the member states that joined in 2004 and a focus on 'new' challenges such as social media and cyberbullying. despite the effectiveness of daphne, i also believe that legislative action in this area is essential. i therefore agreed.
in writing. − sexual violence in the form of mass rape, trafficking in human beings and other forms of sexual abuse of women and children in conflict regions is still used as a tactic of war. i voted for the european parliament's resolution to send a clear message against this situation.
in writing. - the situation of women is particularly precarious in the context of armed conflicts. un resolutions are not always respected by combatants. the risk of becoming a victim of (sexual) violence is particularly high where the life of a person, and especially a woman or child, is of little value. only if perpetrators are investigated and the risk of punishment is high enough will potential perpetrators refrain from assault. the commission has also been active in the field of women's rights in the past. the proposed greater involvement of women in conflict prevention, mediation and resolution is commendable, but will only work where women enjoy a certain status within society based on their role. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. − when women and girls are consistently targeted during conflicts, we cannot be silent. sexual violence in war areas is mainly perpetrated by armed groups that use it to humiliate, intimate and dominate women, girls and entire communities. therefore i voted in favour of it. its adoption will promote a zero-tolerance policy against sexual exploitation of women and girls.
in writing. − in principle, there is a link between poverty and access to modern energy services. however, it would be unrealistic to assume that access to energy can effectively combat poverty. in this context, think of the privatisation of water supply in developing countries, which can lead to the poor not being able to afford water. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. however, improved energy supply can lead to economic growth and thus reduce poverty through job creation. after the current course of action and almost three decades of reforms in the energy sector, 67 per cent of the population will still be without electricity in 2015. to date, only a few developing countries have made progress in this respect. since providing electricity to the poor is not a profitable business, private investors have only improved the energy supply of the productive and industrial sectors. this will probably only change with appropriate subsidies. i voted in favour of this report because it is very critical of it.
in writing. − access to modern energy services is a prerequisite for reducing global poverty and ensuring sustainable human development. energy services affect all aspects of life from not having access to energy usually means living in poverty with no prospects. the importance of access to energy therefore needs to be given greater international attention. i voted in favour of the report because it is a step in the right direction.
in writing. − universal access to electricity is the key to reducing global poverty. efficient energy facilities enable the production and operation of drinking water pumps at low cost. they reduce physical stress on women and children and give them time to take advantage of educational opportunities. modern cookstoves reduce health-damaging smoke emissions, reduce emissions to the environment and allow the boiling of contaminated drinking water. in addition, modern communication technologies are ensuring faster access to medical care. i therefore agreed.
in writing. - tax abuse on the one hand, but also tax disadvantages for crossborder eu citizens on the other, always present themselves as problems of the internal market. the commission has also been active in the fight against fraud and corruption. to counteract this, the commission has decided to introduce an eu-wide annual tax report. the report did not receive my vote, as there is a fear that the eu will be strengthened by tax policy coordination and will intervene excessively in national legislation.
in writing. − there is a need for better coordination of member states' tax systems to reduce costs and administrative burdens. in addition, in the interests of the functioning of the internal market, crossborder tax obstacles must be removed to make it easier for citizens to invest or work in other member states. i agreed to it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to draw your attention to a case and ask you to take appropriate action. if i may believe the pusztaranger website, which normally provides information that can be trusted, the hungarian journalist zsolt bayer has made wild attacks against neelie kroes, who is fulfilling her duties under the rules of the european union, and even more wild and vulgar and obscene attacks against our ulrike lunacek. you can say, well, this is a journalist, what does that matter to us? it is, after all, a journalist who recently organized a pro-orbán demonstration in hungary, a demonstration which, according to several reports, also included anti-semitic posters. i think it is the honour of this house, but also the honour of mrs lunacek, that this matter should be investigated and the translations i have in my possession checked for accuracy. then this house must defend its own honour and the honour of mrs lunacek, regardless of whether you are for or against orbán. there are customs here that are absolutely unbearable. and if mrs neelie kroes is attacked by some of the members of this house because she is fulfilling her legally binding duty, that is also unacceptable. i think we should maintain a certain moral standard in this political debate and not treat each other in a way that is not acceptable here. the fact that i have been called a liar by many speakers even now in hungary is only a passing remark. but the way in which mrs lunacek is being portrayed in public here in hungary is absolutely unbearable. i ask that you investigate this and, should the reports prove true, defend the honor of mrs. lunacek and this house. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. intellectual property rights are arguably one of the cornerstones of the european knowledge society. intellectual property is one of the most important resources in europe. it is therefore clear that these rights must be adequately protected and protected against counterfeiting and imitation. in order to ensure the protection of trademark and product piracy in europe, the european commission proposed to merge the trade mark and product piracy observatory, which was set up in 2009, with the office for harmonization in the internal market. the idea behind this, to encourage better cooperation between the authorities involved in enforcing intellectual property rights, is certainly a good idea from an administrative point of view and simplifies the prosecution of offences in this area. i would like to say a few words, however, to start with. at the moment we meps are faced with e-mails, with citizens' inquiries, with phone calls and personal contacts on acta, the well-known agreement. citizens from all member states fear an attack on their personal data and fear the realization of the glass man. europe has been and must continue to be a champion of fundamental and civil rights and a pioneer for other states in the international community. it seems that in future this observatory will also deal with matters covered by acta. in this respect, i would ask you to consider the following: the commission must ensure that european citizens have unrestricted and secure access to the internet. in addition, the office is to assist the authorities of the member states, but not to act on its own. this was explicitly stated, whereas the commission proposal left the question open. finally, and very importantly, it would like to involve the relevant representatives of civil society, in particular consumer representatives, internet users, users, independent actors, in other words all the important actors of the 21st century.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr masip, who has really allowed a very open debate on this report and has also taken up some suggestions from the other shadow rapporteurs, which i think are very important. the infringement of the rights of the trademark infringement is a serious problem, that is quite clear. but i don't think you can overcome them just by focusing on criminal law and enforcement. we must adopt different, new strategies in order to be able to give a really clear answer. the most important thing for me is that the methodology chosen in this observatory is reliable, that we get reliable data, involving civil society, and that it also takes into account new business models and data protection issues. the old strategies do not work in this report. that's something to take into account. i have a problem with that. the wording has fortunately been improved. we will be monitoring very closely whether the practice is improving, because at the moment i do not think that is really going to happen.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not i'd like to have a technician fix my microphone because it's not working. i would like to ask mrs gallo whether this observatory will also ensure that, in particular, individuals who own intellectual property rights and small and mediumsized enterprises which own such rights are also included here according to their size class, because it is very important for small enterprises in particular to have this protection function. will there be any recommendations for small and mediumsized enterprises on how to protect their intellectual property rights in the future?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask commissioner barnier what is the situation with the brand value, which is published time and again by large companies, but which is of particular value to small and mediumsized enterprises in exporting, in international presence. can you imagine that in the future this office will also be able to determine what the cost of intellectual property is, namely on a global scale, and that in this transparency comparison it will also show where we are in europe, and whether it is also possible for individual artists who claim copyright here to obtain this international protection?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. freedom of speech in parliament also requires a working microphone system. i've got a broken microphone switch. i would ask that a technician restore freedom of speech.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the linking of business registers is a technical matter, but it is not a purely technical matter. it is about the whole of europe and about strengthening confidence in the european single market. the aim is to strengthen mutual trust between member states in their respective legal systems. there is a very good european added value. i hope that this project will go further, that it will be a valuable part of the journey, but it is not yet the goal, but our goal is to establish one day a european company register, and i hope that this day is not too far away. today there is much thanksgiving, and i am very happy to join in that thanksgiving. the cooperation with the rapporteur, mr lechner, and with the shadow rapporteurs was constructive, and particularly the cooperation with the danish and, before that, the polish presidency and with the commission was very pleasing. my main concern in this report was to ensure that the registers were as reliable as possible. it is therefore particularly important that, where participation by all member states is desirable, it is clear from which member state the data originate and what the legal effects are. after all, the differences are far too great. a minimum standard of reliability will also only exist if given changes in the data are entered in the register without delay. the report shall limit the period for the notification of such amendments to 21 days. the registers should therefore be kept up to date and trustworthy. finally, commissioner, you mentioned the cost aspect. this is another example of how constructive and how important it is to work together step by step. the argument of 60 to 70 million in cost savings is indeed a valid one to promote the linking of business registers as quickly as possible. so this report is really something useful that will make life easier for citizens in particular, but also for investors, companies and regulators. keep it up!
question for the commissioner: the commission is not i would like to know, mr paška, what your view is at present of the situation in your country with regard to these new regulations which will be introduced by the european union. how quickly can this be implemented in your country?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank mr lechner because, of course, it is precisely this register in the european languages that gives us the opportunity to meet new customers and suppliers. i believe that networking and the information needed to do so are particularly important, and i believe that this will also make our european economy more competitive.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr chountis, what you have just said has surprised me a little. is greece so isolated that you don't have remittances abroad? are you not faced with the problem that in the future there will be a great many compatriots who go abroad and send money back as guest workers? and when you say that banks cannot continue to profit, can you not see that this unification is reducing a certain extra profit for banks with the transfer costs?
i have to say, madam president, the old demand of all those who feel that much of what we do here is too bureaucratic, too centralistic, has always been: europe must be felt. i think that what we are deciding here today is going to be a step towards a european spring. it's getting warmer, you like to go out and meet people. i come from an area where our immediate neighbours are switzerland and germany. once i had to pay a traffic ticket in lindau - five german marks. because the answer came so late, it was raised to ten d-marks. the bank transactions ended up costing 70 deutsche marks, so a factor of 1:7, or if you like 1:14. it's the little things that rightly upset people, that say, "now we have something in common, and i don't feel it". now you can feel it, it's free now. factor two: a very large number of small and mediumsized enterprises have repeatedly done business abroad. the austrian people are not to be believed either in germany or the czech republic, or elsewhere in the enlarging europe. and the transfer fees were not insignificant. we are talking about higher sums of 0.25%. in difficult negotiations, this was reduced to one eighth, and in some cases it went much higher. the need to keep several accounts made the whole accounting system enormously complicated and when the authorities wanted to carry out appropriate checks, it was much more difficult and inefficient. it's good that we're getting what we're getting. but it is also true that we should have wished for this much earlier. but it is a step towards where we all want to get, which is to be able to see more clearly how payment flows in themselves work and how joint payment flows work. i am glad that we are making more of these initiatives to help us achieve a european spring.
i have to say, madam president, a common internal market requires a common currency, and a common currency requires a common area for payments. the implementation of these three objectives has been very slow in many phases and some are still reluctant to do so. that is why the european parliament and the council are making head and tail today. 1 february 2014 is the end date for the implementation of the single payment area in the euro area and 30 october 2016 is the end date within the european union for the non-euro area. it can go faster. but we must see to it that from now on every entrepreneur no longer has to set up an account in every member state in which he operates. we are now getting to the point where a citizen of one country working in another country is getting the money into his home account at the same time, saving a billion euros, the interbank fee is actually falling. so with this decision today we have done a great deal for consumers and for the added value of membership of the european union. the president and i are also responsible for information and communication. this is a good example of why the european union must exist and what the citizens get out of it. we are not only saving money, we are also making it easier to access it, and at the same time we have de facto saved the back-end, we have kept the electronic back-end, and all the old mandates do not have to be changed. it is a good compromise and yet a step forward.
i have to say, madam president, technical progress and the single european payment area certainly have advantages, such as better liquidity planning through sepa info on the exact day of account debit or shorter transfer times not to mention that banks will lose a basket of money or the fact that credit cards can be used not only at atms to withdraw cash but also to pay throughout europe. iban and bic may have their advantages, but they are more complicated and not as common to many, especially the elderly. it is therefore welcome that parliament has taken the initiative to ensure that old direct debit orders remain valid. in particular, in the face of the massive increase in cybercrime, where allegedly free online offers, which often turn out to be very expensive, or hacking attacks and the spying on personal user data - especially bank data fishing - cause a great deal of financial damage, it is all the more important in my view that the unconditional right of withdrawal for withdrawals be maintained. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. credit card fraud is the fault of the card companies, not the customers. similarly, banks should be held liable for their defective technical systems where appropriate.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. i was rather surprised that it was announced that this dossier would be postponed again, because it is surprising that nothing is being discussed here. we have been discussing this issue since 2005, and since 2005 there has also been a commission recommendation, which has also led to enormous distortions in the market, which is putting increasing pressure on small recyclers in europe and causing them problems. we need this proposal, and we need it urgently! we need it urgently, firstly, because the problem of territoriality must be solved. we have a problem here. the world no longer ends at national borders, and problems are not solved by small exchanges, but go beyond them. it is also urgent because the rights of artists within collecting societies and vis-à-vis their collectors must be strengthened and improved. this is not the case in all member states, but in some very dramatically. the european parliament's lévai report has answered all the questions put by parliament, but the commission has not yet responded. it is also urgent because further concentration of the market will help the us giants to gain more and more market power over our european processors. the time is now running out for the dinosaurs on the market and not for what cultural diversity in europe needs as urgently as water for life, namely a culture outside the mainstream which can then fertilize that mainstream again. commissioner, please take action, but do not confront us with a fast track procedure!
i have to say, madam president, whether it's movie sites, streaming portals or online music services, the distribution of creative content via the internet is a growing market. however, the potential is not yet fully exploited and the eu is still far behind in digital dissemination compared to the us or asia. especially for smaller or young artists and musicians, this distribution via the internet offers a cost-effective method of reaching the largest possible audience. the consumer, in turn, has easy access to a wide range of creative content. in order to unlock the potential of the european creative industries, it is therefore necessary to create a legal framework, including for licensing. collective exploitation also allows smaller artists to exercise their rights. europe has a lot to offer in the field of culture and creativity, not just in terms of its history. we must take this back and promote this market in the digital world.
i have to say, madam president, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. in the face of the darkness of radical austerity, these initiatives to support smes and, above all, to combat youth unemployment are a necessary light. i am an austrian, like you, commissioner, and it was the austrian prime minister, werner faymann, who presented the european youth initiative to the european council. the youth unemployment rate in austria is, thank god, very low. this is linked, among other things, to dual training, but above all to the fact that there is a fundamental political commitment: young people should be able to trust that their training is guaranteed, that their employment is guaranteed. i therefore think it is right that the european union should now set itself the objective of a european training and employment guarantee. it is absolutely right that by the end of 2013 2 million jobs and training places for young people should be created with 10 billion in non-specific esf funds, under radically simplified administrative conditions and with a reduced co-financing rate of 10%. but, commissioner, please be very careful not to shove the money from one pocket of your trousers into another.
i have to say, madam president, this weekend, hundreds of thousands of people across europe demonstrated against acta. and these people are the present and they demand the future, and rightly so. they demand free access to information, they demand a free internet, they demand a modern copyright law that takes into account the interests of consumers, the general public and, ultimately, the interests of artists. but what has conventional politics given them, what has it done? she defended an antiquated, dusty right. and now it threatens millions of people with criminal sanctions. i certainly won't stand for that. i am certainly in solidarity with the people who have demonstrated this weekend. i shall of course vote against the agreement. and i urge you to vote against it! i am convinced that the european parliament should be a bulwark for fundamental freedoms and a free internet.
on behalf of the s&d group. − mr president, i have a question to the rapporteur. as far as i remember, we have already voted for a member of the court of auditors for spain. my question is whether spain now has two members of the court of auditors, whether the man for whom we voted resigned and was withdrawn, or whether he was withdrawn artificially by the government of spain. i find it strange that parliament here should vote for a member and then that the council should not respect our vote. so i would ask what exactly is happening, because our group would protest strongly if, after the european parliament has taken a decision on a majority vote, the council does not respect our decision.
in writing. − a sound, harmonised and gradual approach to intellectual property rights is of fundamental importance. the steady increase in the number of infringements of intellectual property rights represents a serious threat. intellectual property rights should, however, enable inventors to obtain a fair return on their investment and the public to access information and knowledge. the eu therefore needs a balanced system if it is to become a knowledge-based economy. but all these control measures must not end up in an excess of protection and disproportionate enforcement. i see the risk of shifting the balance to the detriment of consumers and eu citizens and have therefore rejected the report.
in writing. − the european monitoring centre on piracy has been set up to collect data on cases of infringement of intellectual property rights, to enforce intellectual property rights and to raise public awareness of the issue. the delegation of certain tasks to the office for harmonization in the internal market is useful as the observatory does not have sufficient resources and the necessary infrastructure to carry out its tasks efficiently. the observatory could benefit from the office's equipment and expertise without incurring additional costs for the eu budget.
in writing. − due to the different legal situation, trade and business registers differ in the eu. finally, trade registers are kept at national and regional level. and in this area, there have already been different developments, for example, as regards the legal significance. given these differences - within an eu country alone, let alone across national borders - i am not fully convinced of the usefulness of linking as it stands and have therefore abstained.
in writing. − the linking of business registers is a welcome step, as it aims to create a platform that can improve and accelerate communication and information retrieval for citizens and businesses. this will promote the integration of the economic area within the eu and strengthen legal certainty for businesses and citizens. but trade registers differ in many ways across the eu member states, for example in terms of their legal significance and the reliability of the data they collect. it is clear that the increasing cross-border economic activity requires better interconnection of business registers for reasons of legal certainty and transparency. the aim of the directive is merely to link existing national registers in a purely technical way and not to harmonise the legal effects. the exchange of register information is the only regulation and no trade register is established with its own data. i believe that the linking of business registers can only succeed if the commission and the member states work together even more closely. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. questions - and solutions - must emerge as the network is built and then be developed. there are still many open questions to be answered, which is why i abstained.
in writing. − the increase in crossborder economic activity resulting from the increasing integration of the european internal market makes it imperative to link national business registers. in addition to improving transparency and legal certainty, such a measure also saves time and money. only through a europe-wide link can electronic business registers reach their full potential.
in writing. − fisheries agreements are a fixed point of the common fisheries policy and are designed to give the eu's fishing fleet a greater weight over the fleets of other fishing nations and to continue to grant them access to exploitable fishery resources under the jurisdiction of other states (after the extension of the exclusive economic zone from 12 to 200 nautical miles in the 1970s). these agreements thus have an impact on the fishing activities of the eu fleet in international waters and in waters of third countries. i have voted in favour of the report because there seems to be no objection to it.
in writing. − the eu's fishing industry is the third largest in the world and eu fisheries policy is a common concern with the 27 member states. the eu's common fisheries policy is based on free and equal access to fish stocks in eu waters, international waters and waters of third countries with which the eu has agreements. the eu's main motives for concluding fisheries agreements with third countries are to meet their growing demand for fish, to preserve jobs in the fishing industry, to exploit the 40% overcapacity of the eu fleet and to protect stocks in its own waters. the eu and guinea-bissau have now decided to strengthen cooperation between fisheries operators. this is welcome, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − the eu-guinea-bissau fisheries agreement brings wide-ranging benefits to both parties: the eu is opening up additional fishing opportunities, and guinea-bissau is benefiting from eu financial contributions and improved standards of hygiene, as well as from the fight against illegal fishing. the new protocol is particularly welcome because it allows the eu to suspend financial payments if human rights or democratic standards are not respected in guinea-bissau.
in writing. - the gradual approximation of morocco to the european internal market and morocco's participation in community programmes will significantly improve bilateral relations between the two parties. the protocol is intended to support morocco in implementing economic, political and social reforms in the interest of the citizens. at the same time, it will ensure that all areas of morocco, including western sahara, benefit from the eu's financial assistance.
in writing. − bluetongue is a painful disease in ruminants and has caused considerable economic damage since the first outbreaks in 2000. third countries stopped their imports from some eu countries altogether despite vaccination of breeding animals. the problem of cattle breeding is, in any case, an existential one and it needs solutions. the old directive on bluetongue dates back to 2000, when there was no good vaccine. today, vaccines are more mature and without serious side effects, so it is good that the old directive is being adapted.
in writing. − mass vaccination against bluetongue can help reduce clinical illness and losses, contain the spread of the disease and facilitate safe trade in live animals. given the different risk of disease, which varies by region, the cost of mandatory vaccination is questionable. the risk of disease appears to be higher in the southern and western regions of the eu than in the northern and eastern regions. in addition, morbidity and mortality are dependent on several factors. i have therefore abstained.
in writing. − bluetongue is a viral infection in ruminants which, in the worst case, leads to the death of the animals. the disease is notifiable as an animal disease and is not transmissible to humans and is not dangerous. it has been found that the enormous damage in vaccinated animals is immediately apparent after vaccination. among the symptoms of vaccinated animals are decreased milk production, and worse still, stillbirths, diarrhoea, and generally poor health. in goats, the young died after drinking the milk of the freshly vaccinated mother. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. if they do not avoid all meat and dairy products, you would certainly be "enjoying" the poisons of the bluetongue vaccine. i am also informed by experts that there is a concern that this vaccine may not be able to identify the real pathogens. the question of whether the animals treated in this way still have 'organic quality' and the impact of vaccination on the quality of meat and on the healthy development of future generations are all legitimate questions which i believe are still unresolved. for these reasons i have abstained.
in writing. − technical progress and the single european payment area have advantages. for example, better liquidity planning through sepa info on the exact day of the account being debited or shorter transfer times or when debit cards can be used not only at atms to withdraw cash but also to pay throughout europe. however, iban and bic are more complicated and not as common to many people, especially the elderly. it is therefore welcome that parliament has taken the initiative to ensure that old direct debit orders remain valid. in particular, in the face of the massive increase in cybercrime, where allegedly free online offers that turn out to be expensive, or hacker attacks and the spying on personal user data - especially bank data - cause major financial damage, it is all the more important that the unconditional right of withdrawal for withdrawals remains in place. the transition periods are too short and it would be desirable for the elderly in particular to maintain the old systems in parallel with sepa. i therefore abstained.
in writing. - i welcome in principle the commission's proposal to create an internal market for euro payment services. the integration of european payment markets with sepa is intended to bring benefits to the european economy by strengthening competition and innovation. cross-border payments would also become as easy as domestic ones. at the same time, however, it is essential to ensure that an unconditional right of withdrawal remains in place for debiting transactions, especially in the light of a significant increase in cybercrime and the risk of personal data being spied on, as well as in the case of 'phishing'. the commission has also proposed that the ageing population should be given longer transitional periods. the elderly in particular want to keep the old systems in place, as they cannot be as flexible. payment service providers and, in particular, payment users should be given more time to adapt to the technical requirements. however, the rapporteur believes that the transitional periods should be as short as possible, so i abstained.
in writing. − the rapid implementation of the single euro payments area (sepa) must be given top priority in order to allow the free movement of capital to have its full effect as one of the pillars of the internal market. i believe that an expiry date of two years after the entry into force of the regulation for national transfer schemes is appropriate to ensure timely implementation, but at the same time to allow all member states sufficient time for full implementation. the fixing of a specific end date is important, not least to facilitate information for citizens and to guarantee legal certainty for them.
the commission has already done so. on the one hand, i am very relieved today that a legal framework has been found to overcome this rather cynical approach of 'we don't have a budget line to help people'. and i'm also relieved that you said there'd be a solution after 2013. however, i believe that this is really just an acute treatment of symptoms. i am particularly concerned about the policies of the european union, and here in particular of some statesmen and stateswomen who are pursuing precisely these policies which lead to poverty. the poverty and hardship in europe are rarely the result of natural disasters. they are actually the result of a huge financial disaster. what is being decided here in europe at the moment is helping to make it possible that we may now be distributing food. but what we need is fairness. we have to start much earlier! we have to create education, we have to create jobs and income. because one day, as my colleague capoulas santos has said, we will not need this aid. food distribution now, as a symptom control. but we need to tackle the causes, and that means distributive justice!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in my country we have a saying: "he who helps quickly helps twice". it's happening now, and that's good. it also seems to have been sensible to take food from intervention stocks, but now this is problematic. on the one hand, these stocks are shrinking, and not everywhere where surpluses are produced are they used. this means that it leads to long transport distances, costs and also to environmental damage. it would therefore be wiser to encourage and support small and flexible structures on the ground, which are mainly concerned with food aid programmes. i am not talking here of old state farming companies in the old communist sense, but of clever, small structures and concepts which will make it possible to help the poor quickly, but also to preserve the jobs we need in the agricultural sector. i don't think poverty can be eradicated that quickly. we are more likely to have to deal with greater poverty, and therefore such approaches are certainly worth considering in the medium term.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work. the milk package, which we shall be adopting tomorrow after lengthy negotiations, is, in principle, welcome. the aim is to strengthen the position of farmers in the value chain. parliament recognises that farmers' bargaining power on the milk market is too weak vis-à-vis the retail chains. consumers now know that it is not the farmers who benefit from any high food prices. the producer price is, after all, only a fraction of the selling price. what we decide tomorrow will not improve the situation of the dairy farmers, nor will it provide a lasting solution to the highly sensitive milk market. there is also no question of soft lending - and this has already been mentioned. the introduction of producer groups is a matter for each member state to assess for itself. a system of production dominance already exists in the form of cooperatives. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take part in the negotiations on the new agreement. the dairy farmers must be able to strengthen their market position on an equal footing. this will be the key question, especially in mountainous regions. many dairy farms there specialise in quality production. but quality must be worthwhile, and that is why the protection of european quality products is the overriding objective. it is important that member states now adopt these instruments. this provides an added benefit and promotes competitiveness, especially for the most disadvantaged rural areas. this milk package is a first step to help the distressed milk sector. but it does not provide any real solutions to the question of milk quotas being exhausted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not affected by the price fluctuations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quota is not exceeded. it is a matter of courage, commissioner, to fight for a viable milk sector.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are not having a general debate on the crisis here, but a special debate on the commission's response to the green paper consultation. the answer to the consultation, commissioner, you have withheld from us today. we do not know the answer to the consultation. in the green paper you proposed three options. but you haven't settled on any of the three today. but we must move quickly. we know the problems, but we also know that the eurozone, any currency zone, is also a bond market. and we know that before you introduce eurobonds - although there are many that we think today - you need consolidated fiscal management. we have a long way to go. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the member states are not left behind in the process of european integration. regardless, they can contribute to accelerating the process with concrete proposals - where werner langen is absolutely right that we need a change in the treaty in the case of two variants - with concrete variants, with a concrete roadmap. we need eurobonds, we need money, and we need lower interest rates. we should therefore move faster than you have indicated in your speech today.
in writing. instead of helping greece to rapidly consolidate from the outset with an exit from the euro and a european marshall plan, a vicious circle of debt, recession and credit starvation was created, attempting to degrade greece into a permanent recipient of financial assistance. many have lost their homes and farms to gambling. at eu level, there is much more at stake - the whole of the nation state and the burden of debt on future generations. but while casinos can issue house bans, brussels wants to open the doors to gambling addicts even wider. the european parliament has already said that it is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. of course, euro-zone countries would rather tap into the financial strength of net contributors, especially germany, the netherlands and austria, than get their own budgets in order. we cannot allow the alarm to be sounded in the casino of european sovereign debt and then simply turn off the warning light by means of eurobonds and let crisis countries take on even more debt than they can ever repay. the further pooling of debts through eurobonds is to be rejected in the strongest possible terms. instead, the eu should pursue new paths such as a european hard currency union.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i think it's very important for all of us, right now in the debt crisis, to also think about how we're going to earn back the money we're spending. we have said that we will measure you on the basis of the results achieved by 2014 in creating a new framework here in the most important area of the european union, which will make us more competitive. i congratulate you, because hardware has improved dramatically around the world in the last few years and months, from smartphones to ipads, from copper to high-speed fiber to surfers that offer completely different capacities, to cloud computing, where we see that the demand is growing exponentially and that we have taken a leadership role here in the european union. i congratulate you on that. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive. when we talk about net neutrality today, it's about the quality, the quantity, the priority, the performance of the work in these networks. for this we need technical standards and also technical legislation. europe has shown that software solutions and technical standards can make great strides. if you take the gsm system alone: umts, lte, the fourth generation networks what will be next? we should be prepared for the fact that the data volumes will increase exponentially. that is why i suggested in the roaming dossier 3 that we should measure wholesale trade in terabytes and no longer in gigabytes. the end consumer has already reached those times. but we also have a lot of contention about content. when we see the debate on acta, we learn that lifelong learning is also central to the user and that we need to do more research on this. in other words, the business models that are emerging here, the blue-light services, the social networks, all have a right to find the frequencies that enable them to perform their respective services.
question for the commissioner: thank you, mrs ford. i think you have mentioned something important, namely crossborder competition. i would like to know what opportunities you actually see for the european union in international competition with regard to china and the united states with this frequency policy.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to wish the competition hökmark gunnar all the best, because he has laid a good foundation for a competitive europe. i would like to ask commissioner neelie kroes: in your plan for 2014 the 100 megabits per second is also a target. what frequency band do you think we can reach?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not mr president of the council! mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. finally, the council really wants to deal with the important problems of growth and employment. a lot of time has passed, many years, many months, without that happening. the commission is also proposing to tackle the imbalances in economic policy. the report published by the commission also contains some information on this subject. however, perhaps too little was said about the need for both sides, the deficit countries and the surplus countries, to do something to change imbalances, as germany itself has promised in the g20 talks and resolutions. as for the rules, mr fox, look at the reality, the empirical. there are many countries that follow the rules, especially countries like germany and austria, which have the lowest youth unemployment. the reality is to be seen and not the ideology. i would, of course, like to support what the council and the commission are doing now. i have only my doubts that the reversal has already been initiated, especially when i look at the way things are done in greece. a lot has been decided, a lot of what has already been said today, when i think, for example, of the g20 summit in cannes - i will come back to that this afternoon. but the case of greece shows that we have not yet learned to change our minds. the economic situation in greece is threatened by those radicals who are setting fire to athens. i am endangered by those - and i give my colleague mr daul his right - who are not prepared to take political responsibility in greece. but it is also threatened by a troika which - i do not know in whose name, certainly not in the name of social democracy and certainly not in the name of many inhabitants of greece - is making demands which only worsen the situation in greece. an extreme reduction in pensions, wages, minimum wages - what does that do? increased recession, increased poverty. it weakens purchasing power, it weakens tax revenues and increases the deficit. this is the policy which is unfortunately being pursued by the european commission and the monetary fund in europe and in greece in particular. we are calling for a change of direction. because if wages and pensions fall, but there is no more competition, because there are many restrictions on competition, for example, then there are higher prices and more poverty. when i see how this troika - with the commission's votes too - is calling for the abolition of social security, for the abolition of social dialogue, this is in stark contrast to what is being said again at the g20 summits and in many other talks. we believe that social dialogue and the role of the social partnership are indispensable, and that they are also indispensable for the reforms in greece! they say the unions must also take responsibility. yes, but you have to give them responsibility too! if you take away their responsibility, they can't take responsibility. there is another way than the one proposed by the orthodox troika. that is why i have proposed and will propose that three prominent members of my group, three former ministers - two ministers, one minister - go to greece and work together with the greeks, together with those who want to make reforms, to find out what reforms can really be applied to reduce the deficit in a targeted way, because they lead to more growth and more employment. that is the difference in approach. greece is being blackmailed by the troika, and it has little say in the matter. it is a threat to democracy. we want to work together with greece on these matters. what greece needs is not a german or another headmaster with a cane. what greece needs is help, support. greece needs advice, not dictation. we want to give that. we want to work together with greece to get greece out of this serious crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we must not threaten but help, because aid to greece is aid to the eurozone, aid to europe. (applause from the centre)
in writing. this year's spring european council is taking place against a backdrop of stagnating economic growth and an immense unemployment rate: 23 million europeans are currently living without a regular income from work, 7 million of them young people aged 15 to 24. this not only leads to a loss of confidence in the eu but also to a decline in purchasing power and, consequently, to recession. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe (ceecs) is based on the principle of the european union's financial contribution to the european union. member states must be encouraged to put at risk areas of no future, such as education, innovation and sustainable energy projects, when implementing their austerity packages. the key to combating youth unemployment is targeted support for smes and the creation of dual vocational training systems based on the austrian model. i therefore think that it would be useful to exchange best practice models in this area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if the rapporteur, mrs cornelissen, thinks that the countries with surpluses should be asked to increase their domestic demand in order to compensate for economic imbalances in the union, i wonder how she sees it. should all german citizens now be asked to increase their consumption of greek olive oil? the consequence of economic imbalances must be the creation of a hard currency and a soft currency zone. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people. i am particularly shocked and saddened by the fact that youth unemployment is on average 20% in the eu, and in some countries it is over 40%. the quality of jobs is also a serious problem: it is intolerable for young academics to do their third unpaid internship and still have no job security. the commission should urgently present its promised quality framework for traineeships. otherwise, the best minds will migrate to the united states and asia, and the eu will be left with a flood of unskilled migrants.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was a little slow with the blue card. my question would be addressed to mr obermayr, but he preferred to leave the chamber immediately after his speech, so there is no need for that.
now we come to the "catch the eye" procedure, and i'm faced with the situation that we have 15 word messages at the moment that we can't call all of them. i ask for your understanding. i shall now proceed to the groups and the receipt of the oral questions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. clearly, simply plugging holes is not the answer. what is needed is investment in sustainable self-help measures, such as education, research, innovation and support for small and medium-sized enterprises. this will undoubtedly boost economic growth and employment. but it is also necessary for the european union to check that the funds made available are actually being used and used properly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all the experience gained so far has shown that while trust is good, a community of solidarity also requires the necessary control.
the common position is adopted.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i tried to put a question to mr obermayr in the previous debate on the annual growth report via blue card. but that was not possible because he left the hall immediately. i would ask that members remain in the chamber at least long enough for a blue card question to be put to them.
in writing. with this report, the european parliament has succeeded in playing an active role in the debate on crisis management, placing the economic and social aspects at the centre of the debate. the spring european council sent a strong signal to help those most affected by the crisis. recent economic data show that the rigid austerity policies adopted in many countries are not conducive to recovery. investments are needed - above all in europe's citizens - to bring about a change of direction. to stimulate growth, we need strong impetus and also concrete means. i am therefore pleased that a reference to the financial transaction tax is included in the report. what i miss in the annual growth report is a highlighting of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy; i think there's a lack of coherence here. because these goals should be given top priority. this is particularly true of youth unemployment; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the employment of young people. i also think it is very important that the report makes reference to macroeconomic imbalances. the deletion of this reference is particularly worrying because these imbalances were the main causes of the crisis.
in writing. − the preservation of self-determination and democracy was the key reason why many norwegians voted against eu membership in the 1994 referendum. like switzerland, they preferred to have access to the eu market only through the eea. a report on norway's 18 years of membership concluded that brussels is exerting pressure on norway through eea accession. a similar complaint was made from switzerland about various supplements. this is to be rejected. the commission has not yet adopted the report.
in writing. − the effective participation of the associated states iceland, switzerland, liechtenstein and norway in the comitology committees in the schengen area is welcome. the associated states are thus given the opportunity to participate in the preparation of decisions without being involved in the decision-making itself.
in writing. − the european union's employment policy is one of the policy areas in which the european union has coordinating tasks, in particular the establishment of guidelines. the transposition of these guidelines into concrete measures and legislation is largely left to the individual member states. the new guidelines have as their main objectives the raising of the female employment rate to 75%, the creation of a labour force with skills commensurate with market demand, the reduction of the school drop-out rate to below 10% and the raising of university graduation to at least 40%, and the fight against social exclusion and poverty. i abstained because, although the guidelines for the eu's employment policy are an ambitious project, national requirements in these areas are much more important and therefore should be given more support.
in writing. − in order to boost growth and competitiveness in europe and to ensure the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives, it is essential to maintain the guidelines for member states' employment policies. in particular, the focus must be on increasing participation of men and women in the labour force, reducing structural unemployment, combating poverty and improving the performance of european education systems.
in writing. − after a long debate, the programme's supporters and opponents have finally reached a compromise. without these, the programmes for the needy currently planned could not be continued. the decision is now a response to the judgment of the european court of justice. it is certainly worth considering whether the agricultural fund is the appropriate area to really achieve the objective of this programme or whether it would not be more coherent to place the programmes in the social fund.
in writing. − despite being one of the richest regions in the world, about 16% of people in the eu live at or just above the poverty line. this means that 43 million people in the european union are food insecure and cannot afford a full, balanced meal every other day. 18 million people rely on the eu's 'free food' programme. germany, the uk, sweden, denmark, the netherlands and the czech republic have brought a case against the legal basis of the programme before the european court of justice, which ruled in their favour last april. the reason for this is that the matter is not within the competence of agricultural policy but within the field of social policy. the commission's proposal was to be adopted by the council on 1 january. the eu must now end the food aid for the needy programme in the absence of a new decision by the member states . while in previous years the programme had 480 million euro per year, this year it has only been increased to 113 million and since 2013 to zero. i voted for the report because i agree with the rapporteur that any further hesitation would be at the expense of needy eu citizens and would in no way be responsible.
in writing. − considering that an estimated 43 million citizens in the eu are at risk of food poverty and that more and more people are at risk of food poverty because of the economic and financial crisis and the dramatic rise in food prices, i support the report and all the measures proposed. i believe that the main objective is to create jobs and to establish sound social systems.
in writing. − given the importance of the programme for the delivery of food to those in need, the regulation should be adopted without delay to avoid further delays. the main amendments proposed by the european parliament were adopted, with the compulsory labelling of eu participation in the programme, the procurement of food under competitive procedures and the concept of union origin of food. i therefore agreed.
in writing. − the joint deployment of broadband networks and digital infrastructures should help to increase the competitiveness of the european economy, promote the interconnection and interoperability of national networks and access to them, and further the development of a digital single market. the instruments available under the connection europe facility are eligible for funding. the aim is to eliminate bottlenecks, which means to enable network connectivity and access to a digital service infrastructure across borders. the report has my vote because it can only bring benefits to the citizens of the eu member states and to the european economy if good quality and quantity of connectivity is ensured.
in writing. − this proposal sets out the policy orientations and objectives for the strategic planning and harmonisation of spectrum use by 2015. this is to pave the way for further development so that the eu can become a world leader in broadband speeds, mobility, coverage and capacity. this is an important building block for the creation of a flexible and coordinated european radio spectrum policy, where new services can provide new opportunities and, above all, growth for a market of 500 million consumers. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. − this political agreement will pave the way for the development of a flexible and coordinated european spectrum policy in which the exponential growth of mobile data traffic can be met by future re-allocations and inefficient use of spectrum belongs to the past. the proposal opens up the 800mhz band for electronic communications services by 1 january 2013 and will help to create a pan-european telecommunications market where new services can create opportunities and growth for a 500 million consumer market.
in writing. - i welcome the core of the regulation on contractual relations in the milk sector, which is to strengthen the bargaining power of producers. my main objective with this package of legislation was to introduce contractual obligations at member state level. the council and the commission have unfortunately successfully resisted this most important improvement. the compromise now reached is acceptable, but it is certainly not enough. there will be a noticeable improvement only in the eu countries where a contractual obligation is decided. we must therefore ensure that the forthcoming reform of the common agricultural policy takes account of small-scale milk producers in particular. in concrete terms, i see room for improvement in the current reorganisation of the common market organization. it is a pity that cooperatives have been exempted from the obligation to negotiate contracts. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quota is not exceeded. we have to find a way to regulate it. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to provide the member states with the information necessary to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. small businesses in particular need to ensure that they are not left unprotected to the milk consumers and the retail trade.
in writing. the present package of measures for the sensitive milk sector is a compromise which has been the subject of long and intensive negotiations. today's decision is a first step and an important signal to the dairy farmers. the problems of imbalance in the production chain are taken seriously. i welcome the fact that the laws strengthen the bargaining power of producers, create new rules and minimum standards for contractual relations and establish a legal framework for the establishment of trade associations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the following areas:
in writing. - this proposal for an amendment to the regulation seeks to take account of the current difficult times in the milk sector. it is not customary to conclude longerterm contracts, and this regulation seeks to enforce this at european level. the report stresses that the role of the sectoral associations must be strengthened in the future, as they are, in the rapporteur's view, important for transparency and organisation. transparency means that all actors in the production chain must disclose information relevant to the analysis of the market. this means a considerable additional effort for smaller farmers. in summary, there is a clear trend towards strengthening the dominance of large firms, especially at the expense of smaller firms. the common practices that have worked are being changed so that even the last independent dairy farmers will have to join the conglomerates. that is why i voted against the amendment of the regulation.
in writing. − the dairy industry within the eu will change significantly after the milk quotas expire in 2015. i therefore believe that in future the bargaining power and opinion of farmers and actual 'producers' must be strengthened. milk producers should be encouraged to organise themselves more actively in producer organisations. it is essential to eliminate the inequality of treatment along the food chain from the raw material supplier to the consumer. the demands of the dairy farmers are on the table, but they seem to be still being ignored by the eu. my calls for a monitoring body to be able to react to market imbalances have not been taken up at all. unfortunately, the new commission proposals do not address the issues of natural, organic milk production, animal welfare and sustainable landscaping in the sense of a regional supply of milk farmers throughout the eu, which is why i voted against the report.
in writing. − despite the improvements that the new regulatory framework contributes to remedy the defects of the european dairy sector, i voted against it because, in our view, there are still many gaps that will not resolve the imbalance of bargaining power in the supply chain between farmers and dairies. this legislative reform is part of the quota regime that will expire in 2015, an option that is not our preference because there are other models in countries like the european market situation where the system of quotas and supply management function satisfactorily and benefit both producers, industry and consumers in a more balanced way, avoiding concentrations of power in a sector of the chain.
in writing. − i have the positive insight that the 2012 growth and jobs report as a whole demonstrates the role of the european union as a catalyst for member states. it focuses on coping with the consequences of the crisis and achieving new structural competitiveness: budgetary consolidation with savings and growth instruments; restoring the necessary credit especially for innovative investments by smes; increasing europe's competitiveness through new 'white' and 'green' careers, for example in nursing; combating unemployment, especially among young people and the elderly, through, for example, education campaigns, lifelong learning, age-appropriate working conditions; administrative reforms through more modern digital organisation. we have also defined additional key points in the employment committee which i see as a common commitment of the member states: compliance with the budgetary consolidation commitments, as for example in the european semester; from now on even with the threat of penalties; the commission has also been active in the field of education and training. the aim of the project is to provide a comprehensive and comprehensive approach to occupational health care as a starting point for an active life, even as older workers in the workplace until retirement. europe is proving itself to be the driving force behind the process. national governments are also called upon to communicate this to all citizens, in order to help to eliminate scepticism about europe and to instill in all a strong vision of a common europe for the future.
in writing. − while welcoming the annual growth report presented by the commission in november 2011, social and employment aspects should be given even greater priority. in view of the objective of strategy 2020 to significantly increase the european employment level, it is necessary to ensure that investment in quality jobs is also invested in addition to the necessary savings. in particular, the problem of youth unemployment and the precarious employment conditions in which many young people find themselves must be tackled.
in writing. - in principle, a comparison of unemployment statistics between member states is only meaningful if it takes account of the different statistical recording methods. the present debt and financial crisis in particular is naturally accompanied by rising unemployment rates. it is also clear that any newly created job which is only part-time or for minor work is not a full-fledged new job. unfortunately, however, the increase in employment in recent years has been in this sector and also in the temporary workers sector. the choice of solutions and the decision on the handling of unemployment statistics and unemployment support measures must remain in national hands. i therefore abstained.
in writing. − the current financial and sovereign debt crisis can only be countered by reforming the general economic environment and by medium- and long-term growth-enhancing measures. full implementation of the eu guidelines for the implementation of strategy 2020 and strengthening of banks' capital adequacy are needed to restore investor confidence. the public administration must also be made more transparent and efficient and legal certainty must be guaranteed in the rules on services of general economic interest. the social consequences of the crisis must also be adequately addressed by adopting structural reforms for labour markets and investing in growth-enhancing areas such as education and research.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i should like to welcome the prime minister to this parliament, not only on behalf of the colleghi democratici but also on behalf of all the social democratic group. it is good to have you here, prime minister. by a slip of the tongue you said that you had been elected by the european parliament. well, that is not yet true, but we would have elected you after the speech you gave today; so come back to the european scene when you finish your prime ministership, so that we can have a strong european in our parliament. prime minister, expectations are very high, not only in italy but also in europe. not with those people over there, but with the public in general. you spoke about growth, and the necessity of combining growth with fiscal discipline. i would go one step further and say that, perhaps, fiscal discipline can be achieved more easily if we have growth and employment. prime minister, we have had many declarations, including those made by italy and other countries, but the actions are still missing. i need only quote, for example, from the final declaration of the cannes summit, where president sarkozy was so proud to hold the g20 meeting. one sentence of that declaration reads: ‘we firmly believe that employment must be at the heart of the actions and policies to restore growth and confidence that we undertake under the framework for strong, sustainable and balanced growth’. a good declaration, but where is the action? the action is still missing. you spoke about some instruments such as stability bonds. we are still discussing growth policies, but we do not have enough action. secondly, for us – as you know, prime minister – a social europe is something concrete. here again, to quote from the declaration of the cannes summit of the g20: ‘we recognize the importance of investing in nationally determined social protection floors in each of our countries ... we are convinced of the essential role of social dialogue.’ this morning we discussed how the social dialogue has been destroyed, for example in greece; how the troika says there must be no social dialogue, no social partners, just legislation – and we can return to democracy later. for us, growth, employment and social policies have to go hand in hand. my next point relates to tax. for a social europe the tax system must also be social and fair, and we have to fight against tax evasion. again, the g20 said: ‘we are committed to protect our public finances and the global financial system from the risks posed by tax havens and non-cooperative jurisdictions’. yet there has been no reaction, not a single action against tax havens; not a single action to deal with non-cooperative jurisdictions. what should greek citizens think when the money of the rich is going to switzerland and other countries, untaxed, and they have to pay tax on their reduced salaries? this is an impossible situation. you also know, prime minister, that the financial transaction tax is very important for us. it is often said that, well, we have to fear tax evasion. a study by our group showed that, if the financial tax is applied right, tax evasion need not be a very big problem. we accept tax evasion involving the bahamas, switzerland and many other countries, but in the case of the financial transaction tax, all of a sudden we are very restrictive. so this is another point which our group regards as very important. i agree with you and, as i said, i would even go a step further. in a growing europe, in a europe with more jobs and fewer unemployed people, in a social and fair europe with a fair tax system, fiscal consolidation is much easier to achieve and can be accepted by the citizens. my next point is to stress that we also have european institutions, such as the european central bank and the european investment bank, that can contribute to your – and our – concept of growth and development. concerning the european investment bank, why not give it more credit possibilities, especially for the benefit of small and medium-sized industries? the european investment bank can also help to generate growth. as for the european central bank, another italian – mr draghi, whom i met on monday – is doing a good job there. i would like you to follow and support your colleague in the european central bank, so as to do the utmost to promote growth and create enough liquidity in europe for growth generation. i think with these two italians, draghi and monti, europe looks different, and i hope that this can be a success story for europe now. someone has just said ‘super mario’: we shall see. let us hope for the ‘super’. my last point, mr prime minister, is about a democratic europe. you are absolutely right: democracy and integration are no contradiction. but democracy for us is not the council as such, because some members of the council are trying to regain their power. many citizens ask: ‘i thought parliament emerged as the winner under the lisbon treaty, now what has happened to the role of the parliament?’ i know that the lisbon treaty was not the favourite treaty of members of governments and prime ministers, but i hope that, with your conception of democracy, you will support parliament’s request to be part of that democratic game. i hope it will not be as it was with the fiscal treaty, and that we will not have to force our way into the debate and the discussions in order to achieve some small changes. we should be involved in the discussion from the beginning. the question of democracy does not only relate to the commission. we discussed this morning how some of the troika people go into countries like locusts, aggravating rather than improving the situation, as in greece. the approach in italy is quite different because it involves both fiscal responsibility and growth, and not only fiscal discipline and fiscal stability. we have high hopes for you and so finally, prime minister, we are very happy that you are here. you are working for a strong italy and a strong europe, and that is also our wish. we need italy, as a founding member of this european union, to be strong, democratic and economically safe and sound, and to have full employment and social policies. that is your task: you will fulfil it, we are sure, with our support.
i have to say, madam president, i think that in the interests of equality i can speak for a minute longer, as the honourable member who spoke before did. what began as a legitimate demand for political self-determination and reform is becoming increasingly radicalized. the women we saw in the first row at the beginning of the demonstrations are now being sought in vain. extremists are increasingly threatening the syrian revolution. i am concerned when al-qaeda calls for fighting the assad regime, as in the last video message, where the call was for fighting the anti-islamic regime in damascus. it is a religious duty, say the extreme islamists, to fight the assad regime. we know where this is going. druze, alevis out, sharia in. this is the way. so if islamic fundamentalists, islamic fighters, continue to participate in the syrian uprising and even take it over, it would be a disaster for the democratic and liberal opposition forces in the country. in this situation, military action would be the worst solution. only a serious dialogue with assad, who is already facing the wall, could take pressure off the powder keg.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think there are growing signs that the syrian conflict is turning into the kind of religious conflagration that experts have long feared. we know that once the syrian sunnis fought in the iraq war, now the brothers can take revenge. not only centuries-old tribal ties but also the common religion binds us together. and last but not least, the sunni arabs on the western iraqi border are also trying to strengthen their own position vis-à-vis the shiite central government in baghdad. as if this and iran's interference in conflicts were not enough, there are also increasing signs that al-qaeda is looking to intervene in syria. i think that a un blue helmets mission has no real chance in view of the russian veto, except that it would only make sense in the event of a ceasefire. the eu should not allow itself to be dragged deeper into this cauldron of conflict, because a religious conflict could really burn its fingers and cause it to fail spectacularly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. syria will also join us at the 19th session of the un human rights council. we strongly criticise the decision of china and the russian federation to block a security council resolution on syria. we have also made our priorities a priority on the agenda. the european council will also discuss the situation in burma/myanmar, north korea, the arab spring, the situation in syria and libya and the islamic republic of iran. we welcome the lifting of the suspension of libya in the human rights council. nevertheless, the desert state remains in focus because we cannot be sure of its future development. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the rule of law, respect for human rights, good governance and the fight against corruption. it's about bringing the issues of fundamental rights, freedom of speech, freedom of religion into the public debate more. this is true in all the countries we deal with. i welcome the fact that the instrument for the financing of the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide will be increased and that a large part of it will benefit the human rights council. it is also gratifying that the issue of human rights has gained weight within the un system. a look at the agenda of the security council shows this. but to avoid undermining our own credibility, we must also clean up our own mess at home. it is not possible that the majority of member states are lax in implementing international treaties, or as in the case of conventions on the rights of migrant workers, which have been ratified by only one member state. we cannot stop the disbursement of aid and the melting down of accounts unless we set the highest standards for ourselves. but on the issue of credibility, it is also generally true that the old block formation in the human rights council must be ended. the common must be put before the divisive and objective alliances must be forged. only in this way will the necessary transparency be maintained and the budget of the human rights council be further increased and its credibility strengthened.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have no problem with you preferring mr. vice president karas. we are used to being overlooked. nevertheless, mr president, it is precisely because the eu countries are financing a large part of the un operations that there is a need to discuss the usefulness of a potential blue helmets operation in syria. it only makes sense if there's a ceasefire. it doesn't look like it. on the contrary, the conflict threatens to spread. we should give priority to humanitarian aid and prepare for larger, more intensive flows of refugees. in the light of the recent un human rights council report on internet blocking, the eu also has to address the issue of internet freedom. the controversial acta agreement in particular is clearly going beyond its target. in order to ensure that the us entertainment industry continues to make billions, privacy and fundamental rights are apparently being sacrificed. that is absolutely unacceptable.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in these difficult times for the member states, the realistic approach to saving advocated by mr vaughan is correct and deserves our support. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and we can certainly achieve further savings if we improve interinstitutional cooperation and cooperate better in areas such as staff, organisation or building management. but while saving is necessary, there are also areas where caution is needed. first, the protection of the environment. we need an efficient environmental policy in all eu institutions and bodies. the institutions themselves should be the model for europe. secondly, in the field of translation and language services. the commission has already made some savings in the past year. but this cannot go on like this. the ep is the legislator of 500 million europeans. and these citizens must be able to follow our work in their own language. transparency in democratic processes must not fail on an interpreter budget. i would also like to expressly mention the support and cooperation of the secretary-general and his team in these difficult matters.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am grateful that this debate is taking place here in strasbourg today. i would like to say, particularly on amendment no 1 on buildings, that strasbourg is indeed the city of peace, that bridges have been built here in europe, and that one of our presidents, mr schuman, for example, was a co-founder of the european union. this is also a basis for the future. we have arte, the channel that also brings european culture to the public on a very massive scale. we should be proud of that, and we should also build a studio for the parliament opposite the arte studio, because this is where europe can meet and where europe can set the course. amendment no 2 refers to a single seat. we got him. our single seat is strasbourg. we should also keep the contracts we have made. it's a given. if we are discussing a house of european history in amendment no 4, then it is our duty to show our young people how important it is to work for this peace every day. this must also be documented accordingly. we have over a million visitors a year in our visitor centre and here in the house, and 100,000 in the new parliamentarium. people want to know how european history developed. we also need strong european parties. we must oppose this unity to the national conflict, to the selfishness of the nation states. we need a strong european union, and for that we need strong parties. and of course they need to be funded. if we are talking about representation in amendment no 6, then yes, visitors must also be looked after and have a right to proper and decent care here in the house. that is why this vote tomorrow is particularly important.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not mr kelly, i thank you for your reference to the expenditure of members. the members who are calling for a reduction in the flat-rate or salary system in this house should be told that each member can decide for himself how much he spends, works and uses, so that he can do his work properly. for example, he can donate his salary to organizations, to the poor or to the unemployed. all those who advocate a reduction should also make public what they are getting paid for. do you think that this is the right way, that each member should take the initiative himself?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the debate has shown that the citizens of the european union have a right to know more about what is being done in this house, what the institutions are doing for them. that is why i also advocate that we increase our publicity, because it is also important for international attention to communicate these things in all languages. that is why our interpreters are so important, because the european parliament is the only parliament in the world which has the opportunity to make itself understood in this multilingual constitution. that is why it is extremely important in the budget that the political parties, the members of parliament, become even more active here in explaining the work of europe for peace, that it becomes clear that effective work is being done here and that there are also differences between the members. this is what the debate today has shown.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. as a member of the committee on petitions, i am in favour of voting against non-binding regulations by parliament. in the spirit of mrs mazzoni's resolution, i think it is clear that we will soon have to take even further steps, namely when we look at the online sector. i have seen that steps are already being taken in this direction in germany, austria and switzerland. and then when the online question comes up, the topic becomes even more viral. i welcome the fact that these areas are now regulated at european level. happily, the number of visually impaired persons is decreasing, thanks to medical advances. i therefore appeal to you, mr commissioner, as a member of the committee on petitions, to give justice to this group of discriminated visually impaired people and to give them access to cultural heritage number one, the book.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am disappointed in your answer, commissioner. they obviously want to stick to the old system, that you have to have complicated negotiations per country and that again no further access to literature is granted, that so no more opportunities for the blind and visually impaired are created. i am particularly saddened by this because the european union is now blocking a step forward in wipo, whereas many other contracting parties would be willing to go forward. this is a huge opportunity that's being missed. you are not fighting for more rights for authors, but you are fighting against people who are supposed to be guaranteed equal access to cultural goods by the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, so that they can also participate fully in these cultural goods. i appeal to you, please break down barriers and agree to a binding contract!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, there are 30 million visually impaired people in the eu. they are deprived of their right, as are we sighted people, to have unrestricted access to books. let me put it a little differently. the right to education is being denied to the visually impaired, if we're being honest. in these times of pushing for better education and training, we are excluding the visually impaired from these opportunities. this discrimination must stop! so please really stand up for the visually impaired, give them equal opportunities and above all, please take action!
the commission has already done so. when we talk about migration, many people think of asylum, of overcrowded boats, but most people don't think of controlled migration, and hardly anyone thinks of family reunification. more than one third, and in some countries more than half, of immigrants to the european union come through this family reunification title. we, as christian democrats, support the right to family life and we also support family reunification. i would, however, like the commission to take certain conditions into account and to include them in the directive, such as that family reunification should only apply to the nuclear family, that persons entitled to subsidiary protection should continue to be excluded because the objective of returning as soon as possible is for them that social benefits should be linked to the use of integration assistance and that abuse in all its forms should be effectively combated by all possible measures. if these conditions are taken into account, then family reunification will undoubtedly have a very positive effect. but i would also like to point out that we should pay much more attention to the influx of skilled workers, specialists, highly qualified people, because all the statistics show that we need these people to strengthen the european economic centre and ultimately to be able to maintain our social, pension and health systems. you know, we're in a very competitive environment with the united states, competing for the best minds, of course, with canada or australia. we are therefore called upon to make attractive offers in good time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. beyond all humanitarian considerations and beyond the question of whether family reunification is a fundamental right, we must all be clear that this family reunification does not mean immigration into the labour market, but rather, in most cases, directly into the social systems. when we consider that in the last few decades, the number of immigrants in most eu countries has multiplied, but that the number of people in employment has remained the same, we can see what this means. in many countries, up to 40% of immigrants are mainly dependent on social security, which is also the result of taking advantage of this family reunification. in this context, organised forced or forced viewing is not a new phenomenon and is rarely seen. in order to limit mass immigration, it is surely time to define the concept of family more narrowly, rather than treating it too generously. we must take a consistent but also humanitarian stance here.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i should like to take this opportunity to begin by thanking and congratulating mr menéndez del valle and mr moreira on their excellent work. it was a very good report and it was also important in terms of content to comment on this situation. i believe that the committee on international trade has agreed to this regional convention for good reason. if you go back in history, it was free trade that informally created the european union in the first place. it was free trade under social conditions - and this is something that must be said - that made a significant contribution to the european community's integration into the european union and, ultimately, to the prosperity of the european union. if we now succeed in developing a similar system of free trade throughout the mediterranean area, i am convinced that this would be a great opportunity for the countries bordering the mediterranean to achieve a certain degree of prosperity and, above all, to live peacefully with one another, which is not always the case. it is good that we have succeeded in replacing several hundred agreements that have existed here so far with one agreement. i think it's got a lot of heart. however, one should - and i was not entirely satisfied with the commissioner's answer - think that a more intensive form of dispute settlement would of course make sense. we can still see that the european union is not always so harmonious. that is why dispute settlement procedures could make sense. the aim must remain a general free trade agreement, which we have not yet fully achieved. as mrs gomes said, you cannot force anyone to do it. we can only encourage it. but i think we're already moving in the right direction.
the commission has already done so. it is well known that there are difficulties in administering the current network of bilateral protocols on rules of origin between the countries or territories of the pan-euro-mediterranean area. if these are now changed, i think we must be careful that regional incomes do not create a more unfavourable situation than under previous free trade agreements. finally, the strategy aims to ensure and promote free movement of goods between the eu and the partner countries in this area. in principle, the prohibition of customs refunds must be observed in the pan-euro-mediterranean area in diagonal trade. this is not without problems in the case of the palestinian authority in the west bank and gaza strip. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules of origin are respected.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission by mr norbert glante, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the future of the monitoring and environmental safety system (gmes) (o-000325/2011) (b7-0027/2012) (2012/2509 (((rsp)).
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. − to reduce the risk of a 'bank run' and to avoid the taxpayer being called upon to pay for the failure of credit institutions in future crises, it is essential to create uniform minimum standards for deposit protection across europe. all credit institutions without exception should be required to be members of a deposit guarantee scheme and all deposit guarantee schemes must be adequately financed ex ante. in addition, short withdrawal periods in the event of compensation should be used to strengthen the confidence of depositors. i think it would be appropriate to introduce a european-wide refund period of five working days instead of the current twenty working days.
in writing. − the debt and economic crisis and the sometimes harsh national austerity policies adopted or to be adopted by many eu member states make it all the more important that the european union too should take austerity measures. although there were no breakthroughs on the big issues such as the three seats in parliament or the subsidy and agency jungle, the report made it clear that savings were needed. the report gives only half-hearted guidelines, although these are of course better than nothing. i voted in that direction.
in writing. - in these economically difficult times for the member states, the realistic approach to saving advocated by mr vaughan is correct and deserves our support. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and we can certainly achieve further savings if we improve interinstitutional cooperation and cooperate better in areas such as staff, organisation or building management. however, while savings are necessary, there are also areas where caution is required: firstly, environmental protection, because we need an efficient environmental policy in all eu institutions and bodies. the institutions themselves should be the model for europe. secondly, in the area of translation and language services, where savings were made last year. but this cannot go on like this. the european parliament is the legislator for 500 million europeans. and these citizens must be able to understand our work in their own language. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council.
in writing. - in times of increasing overfishing of stocks, there should be more discussion about the introduction of fishing quotas and, consequently, about how to comply with and control them. however, science has not yet been able to pinpoint the exact number of fish, in this case the stocks of the cod. consequently, all measures are based on estimates only. nevertheless, they should be used to establish a tac. i have voted in favour of the resolution because in the long term it will be necessary to maintain or restore fish stocks at a level which will ensure the highest possible yield.
in writing. − the resolution underlines that the plan’s objective is to maintain the biomass of western horse mackerel at a level that ensures its sustainable exploitation; urges the commission to take more initiatives to foster a political dialogue between the three institutions aimed at clarifying their respective roles in the decision making process and at addressing the issue of the future architecture of the multi-annual financial framework; and urges the council to submit its position on the proposed multi-annual plan.
in writing. − the resolution emphasises that the fisheries sector is an important eu industry which provides economic and social value for the european union and considers that environmental, economic and social sustainability are important objectives of the cfp. it also considers it crucial to recognise the seas as a resource which plays a crucial role in producing other natural resources. the resolution asks the commission to integrate the concept of conditionality, which is already employed in the common agricultural policy.
in writing. - hungary has a new democratically elected government which, like any government, is enacting new laws. the argument is now that this restricts fundamental freedoms and that the eu is therefore concerned about the situation of the hungarian population. of course, there must be no violation of fundamental rights in an eu member state. the high degree of fundamental rights and freedoms must in any case be maintained and upheld. in the case of the criticism of hungary, however, the question arises whether other motivations are not at the forefront. hungary has elected a 'right-wing' government, which seems to be a thorn in the side of the 'left-wing' governments of other member states and the politically correct good people here in the eu parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in austria and other eu countries, the central bank and the constitutional court are also de facto politically occupied. the european union has a long history of human rights violations, and it is not easy to find a solution to these problems. but that is precisely why fundamental rights should not be used as a pretext, otherwise they may one day turn out to be just more empty words. i therefore voted against the resolution.
in writing. the eu is seeking to set a precedent ahead of the russian parliamentary elections. she's complaining about long-standing grievances, hoping to influence the upcoming election. the eu is angry that russia has twice voted against intervention in syria at the un security council, which is why the eu now wants to play the role of teacher but does not start turning around on its own doorstep. unfortunately, not all member states have the same level of fundamental freedoms as some eu countries. but the eu should first improve its own acquis before it harasses other countries. in some countries, for example, freedom of expression is de facto only partially guaranteed or is increasingly restricted by new laws, such as the new, ineffective law against incitement in austria. the resolution's recitals state that enhanced cooperation and improved relations with russia bring more stability, prosperity and security. the motion for a resolution is the exact opposite. russia is an independent country and that must be respected more. i cannot therefore agree to this request.
in writing. − the resolution stresses that the credibility of the russian federation at international level and the legitimacy of its authorities both outside and inside russia depend on free and fair electoral processes, consolidated democratic institutions and the respect of the rule of law; it condemns the crackdown of the police on peaceful demonstrations protesting against election irregularities and frauds reported by international observers and documented by recorded videos of average citizens; it calls on the russian authorities to fully respect freedom of assembly and freedom of speech in compliance with the constitution of the russian federation; it calls on the russian authorities to fully address all the shortfalls and deficiencies highlighted by both the osce/odihr election observation mission and the independent organisation golos and to quickly implement all of their recommendations with a view to paving the way for real free and fair presidential elections; it calls, in particular, for and efficient, accurate, impartial and reliable observation of the elections in accordance with osce/odihr and council of europe standards.
in writing. - there is no justification for extending the fisheries agreement. the extension of the fisheries agreement with morocco, which is considered to be environmentally harmful and which, at some 36 million euros a year, is not only one of the most expensive agreements (and which does not benefit either the european taxpayer or the local population), must be categorically rejected. the agreement is interpreted by both parties to include the rich fishing grounds of the occupied western sahara, which are now threatened by overfishing. this is contrary to the un convention on the law of the sea and international law. the eu's illegal and legalized plundering of the sea off the occupied western sahara must come to an end.
in writing. − the draft agreement will allow morocco to immediately liberalise 45% of the value of imports from the european union while the community will liberalise 55% of its imports from morocco. the agreement also provides for increased concessions in the fruit and vegetable sector, in which moroccan products account for 80% of the eu’s imports. this agreement should not go into effect without fulfilling import control mechanisms as pointed out by olaf because it does not benefit small farmers in morocco (over 70% of exports are in the hands of three firms), it includes the disputed saharan territories (the un does not recognise the sovereignty of morocco) and it would mean the progressive disappearance and marginalisation of a number of european agricultural products.
in writing. − this joint motion for a resolution is proposed by the major political groups; they harshly judge the assad regime and what it is doing to the civil society; the resolution calls on the president to abandon power and allow a smooth transition; the text also talks about the eu code of conduct with regard to arms sales, recalling that all exports to this country are banned; finally, the groups take advantage of the resolution to congratulate the high representative for promoting the creation of a contact group of countries – where turkey is included – that will help democracy to arrive in syria.
in writing. - coordination, particularly with the united nations, is of the utmost importance in the field of human rights and all related matters. the eu's foreign policy efforts should naturally be directed in this direction. the european union has a long-standing commitment to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the european union is committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. unfortunately, however, it must be said that this motion for a resolution is in many respects vague and inaccurate. there are some places where you can't see a clear line or position. in principle, any initiative to improve human rights is welcome, but concrete measures and ideas must be decided. that is why i abstained.
in writing. − i welcome the establishment of the mandate of a special rapporteur for human rights in syria and support the idea of a resolution on human rights in bahrain. furthermore, it is indispensable to closely monitor the human rights situation in western sahara. last but not least i absolutely condemn every form of death penalty. therefore, i agree to the motion for a resolution on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.
in writing. − in many european countries, blind and visually impaired people are still not included in statistics, so there can only be rough estimates of their numbers. in denmark, finland, the united kingdom, ireland, iceland, italy and the netherlands, blind and partially sighted persons are counted. the world health organization (who) evaluated surveys from these countries. this has shown that the number of visually impaired people in these countries has increased by 80%. similar developments are expected for the rest of the eu member states. the reason is thought to be an ageing population. it is therefore all the more important to ensure that visually impaired people have greater access to literature, for example, without barriers. to date, only 5% of all printed works published in the eu are in braille, large-print or audio recordings. i have voted in favour of the resolution because it is essential for the further education of the population that printed matter should also be made available to visually impaired people.
in writing. − currently, only five per cent of all published books and printed matter are available in accessible formats such as braille, large-print or audio recordings. this puts blind and partially sighted people at a huge disadvantage. in the light of the prohibition of discrimination against persons with disabilities enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, there is therefore an urgent need for a legally binding copyright agreement in this area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement because it is a further step towards the creation of a possible free trade area in the mediterranean. the european union is creating a single legal instrument by adopting the regional convention on pan-european mediterranean preferential rules of origin. the agreement will in practice lead to a huge increase and dynamic development of trade in the territories and to a deepening of political relations.
in writing. − if the pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin are now to be amended, care must be taken that regional agreements do not create a more unfavourable situation than under the previous free trade agreements. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the system of cumulation of origin is applied in the community. the strategy is designed to promote the free movement of goods between the eu and the partner countries. in principle, the prohibition of customs refunds must be observed in the pan-euro-mediterranean area when trade is conducted diagonally, which is not without problems in the case of the palestinian authority for the west bank and the gaza strip. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the eu should take a closer look at this problem, particularly in the light of the recent revision, and should seek innovations in the pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin which would effectively prevent abuse, so that the system does not run counter to the eu's action in the gaza strip. that is why i have rejected this report.
in writing. − the regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin replaces the current network of over a hundred bilateral protocols on rules of origin. the complexity of the system has meant that small states and smes have had little to gain from trade relations with the southern mediterranean countries. the proposed simplification or standardisation of the system of cumulation of origin is therefore to be welcomed.
in writing. − global environment and security monitoring is an initiative jointly launched by the european commission (eu) and the european space agency (esa) in 1998. it is now of vital importance for earth observation. the data provided provide information on pollution, climate change and are subsequently used for disaster prevention and security. the current uncertainty about the future of the programme and also about the funding could be a major handicap for europe. i have voted in favour of the resolution because i too believe that the gmes programme is a very cost-effective programme which can only benefit europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. belarus is the last country in europe that still uses and carries out the death penalty, despite the fact that 250,000 people have signed a petition calling for the abolition of the death penalty in belarus. in connection with the tragic bombing of the minsk metro on 11 april, dmitry konovalov and vladislav kowaljow were sentenced to death. but as strongly as the assassination is to be condemned, the death penalty is not an appropriate response to murder and crime. at least europe and the western world - and i include america - should be fundamentally different from asian and african traditions. state killing is neither humane nor can it bring about justice. i join the call of the committee of ministers and call on the belarusian authorities to abolish the death penalty.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a year ago, families, mothers, men with children on their shoulders, christians and muslims demonstrated together for freedom and democracy. but the arab spring quickly turned into a frosty winter, and now lynchings, murder, anarchy and fear rule this country. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the former yugoslavia. for example, it has become dangerous, almost fatal, for christian women to show themselves in public. the muslim brotherhood, the salafists are a dangerous majority in the country and are prepared to go to extremes, and the christians, with about five members of parliament, do not really play a role. i would therefore like the european union to send a signal and to take all possible measures to combat these terrible acts of repression and to protest vehemently against the daily attacks on christianity and human rights. we should also show solidarity by being clear and concise in our solidarity with the european funds we are providing, by optimising development aid accordingly and, if necessary, by cutting it. i am frankly a little afraid when i look at the developments in syria, and i wonder what will happen after the fall of assad for our alawite, druze and christian minorities in syria.
madam president, i thank you for allowing me to speak briefly. there is nothing to add to what my predecessors have said, that was great. i'm not so great about the fact that you're letting time slip by a good minute. i would also like to speak on this important subject at 'catch the eye', but i feel my chances are somewhat limited, because it is not possible to do so if every speech is delayed for so long. i would therefore ask that the time for speaking be respected.
thank you. thank you. the gender pay gap in the eu is on average 16.4%. it's barely decreased in recent years. in some member states it is even increasing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. this pay gap has a number of complex, often interrelated causes: the lower value of women's work, the gender segregation of the labour market, and, in addition, traditions and stereotypes. the gender pay gap is a consequence of all these factors and inequalities in the labour market. austria is the country with the second largest income gap between men and women in the eu. here, women earn an average of 25.5 percent less per hour than men. the problem has been known for some time. the argument that many women in austria and elsewhere work part-time is not enough. the reasons for the poor grades are social. on the one hand, women traditionally work in lower paid occupations than men, and on the other hand, there are still too few women in management positions. i firmly believe that companies and organizations with more women in leadership roles, or at least with mixed leadership teams, are much more successful. this is why we need to reduce income disparities and intensify the debate on quota arrangements.
i am grateful to the commissioner for his reply, and i hope that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. how often do we hear, when it comes to quotas, some women say: 'i don't want to be an alibi woman' or some men, as a colleague said today: 'that's discrimination'. these people overlook the fact that many men are already in high positions, not because they are particularly well qualified or because the quality of their work is particularly good, but solely because they are men. that is why quotas are so important and necessary, and i would like to thank in particular mrs sirpa pietikäinen, who has managed to include in her report some phrases which actually do apply, and i will read this briefly in english: today an informal system of quotas is de facto in play, where men are privileged over women and where men choose men for decision-making positions, which is not a formalised system but nevertheless a systematic and very real deep-rooted culture of positive treatment of men. in order to achieve justice we need quotas, and that is why i would like to thank both rapporteurs, both mrs sirpa pietikäinen and mrs sophia in 't veld, for their excellent reports. and it is precisely mrs sirpa pietikäinen, a member of the european people's party, who hopefully has succeeded in convincing many in her party to vote for her report tomorrow, so that we can make a really strong appeal to the commission and the council to ensure gender equality, because almost 40 years after the international year of women in 1975, it is really high time for this.
blue-card question. – mrs bizzotto are you saying that same-sex families do not exist in italy? i know quite a few such families, so i wonder if you really know your country very well. could you please explain how you can say that in italy same-sex families do not exist?
madam president, there are currently three eu heads of government in germany, denmark and a commissioner in slovakia. only 23 per cent of the ministries in all the member states are headed by women. in the whole of europe, only a quarter of national representatives are women, although statistically there are more women than men in the european union. the european parliament is outstanding in this respect, with a proportion of women of 35%, but it is still far from being balanced. i therefore strongly support the call for genuine gender equality in decision-making positions. the female population must feel represented in politics. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. in the 21st century, more than ever, we must fight for gender equality in society, but above all in politics. the two fields, society on the one hand and politics on the other, condition and influence each other. equal rights in society must precede equal rights in politics and vice versa. i think that a mandatory lock-down system for party lists is an important step towards ensuring this equality. we must also find new ways of promoting women and equality in the economic sphere. we must actively promote women. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european union must be able to play a leading role in the world of work, and this is where we must join forces, exploit synergies and work together to build a europe with a future and equal opportunities. i'm not a big fan of quotas myself, but we have to recognize that voluntary systems don't work. the 8th of march was the anniversary of international women's day. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to participate in the work of the european parliament. a lot of it fades very quickly. some are carried on, some are not implemented. but there is a concrete approach here which can be adopted and implemented by the member states. let's follow the words with actions.
i have to say, madam president, even though it's ladies' night, i'm mostly male. 60% of all university graduates in the eu are women. however, women with the same qualifications still earn much less than their male counterparts. it is high time to close the wage gap: equal pay for equal work. on the other hand, it must be equal opportunity for equal qualifications. and i think, madam president, that we must reject the quota system. i do not think mrs reding's initiative is very sensible. it is very doubtful whether women on quota supervisory boards will feel accepted. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of young people with regard to the processing of personal data is based on the principle of equal treatment. but ultimately the central issue is work-family balance, more flexible opening hours for kindergartens, full-day schools on the one hand, but also family splitting on the other. each life model must have its place without endangering its existence.
in writing. unfortunately, there is still too little happening to achieve gender equality in working life. a first measure is the introduction of an eu-wide quota for women in private enterprises. i therefore welcome the clear public commitment of commissioner reding and her first steps in this direction. the facts have been known for a long time: in 2010, only 12% of board members and only 3% of board chairpersons were women in the largest listed companies in the eu. the fact that women make up more than half the population, that around 56% of tertiary students are female and that for years women have been the majority of university graduates is shocking. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take account of the fact that the number of women in the labour force is increasing. further steps must follow the mandatory quota to promote women in the entire business environment. we need a comprehensive programme here immediately, because a strong female presence in business also ensures equal opportunities in the future. the european institutions should play a leading role in policy-making. more than one third of meps in the european parliament are women. in order to make a difference in the equality of women in working life, we women work together across party lines, because it is in our collective interest to put smart women in top positions.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i should like to begin by thanking mr lechner, who has done a really excellent and very open job and has always integrated all the shadow rapporteurs very well. the present decision merely adapts the law of succession to a trend which has intensified in recent years. people are mobile, living outside their country of origin, building a life there, and then when it comes to the heredity, their heirs would eventually have to return to their country of origin. this can lead to great difficulties and great irritation. so i think it's good that this decision has finally been made, with the drop of a hatch, that britain is once again - for the 536th time - not taking part. there are many reasons for not participating in every state, but here it is particularly tragic. one thing was important to me: that same-sex couples should not be discriminated against by the public order when it comes to actually exercising their inherited rights, which they claim by their choice of law. i believe that this is a key requirement of the present. life has changed!
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, mr rapporteur! the new ordinance on inheritance will make life easier for many heirs and testators and will drastically reduce the number of crossborder disputes in matters of inheritance. there is a strong increase in the number of people who own property in other member states or live in another member state. the new regulation would give them more legal certainty when drawing up their will or planning their estate. i emphasize the word 'had' because once again we would be swallowing a big drop of wormwood. it seems that the council is preventing a uniform pan-european outcome because of the stubbornness of some member states. the uk and ireland have now negotiated an opt-out on two points, on the administration of the estate and, as we have already discussed, on the clawback clause for contesting gifts for mandatory part-reduction. the exception does not only affect the british and irish people. heirs who are nationals of other member states are also negatively affected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right of residence is guaranteed in the member states. the european parliament has been in favour of a common solution involving all the member states throughout the negotiations. the failure of the member states to reach agreement, particularly in the council, on the question of compulsory gift and succession, has left these areas virtually unregulated, creating legal uncertainty. the member states are now called upon to find a compromise on the two open points: simplification of legislation, greater legal certainty. we must not complicate or cost the heirs' lives unnecessarily. i would therefore urge the council to take parliament's concerns seriously. the new inheritance ordinance is practical and correct, but it must not become a raisin-claw ordinance whereby conscientious objectors retreat to ireland or the united kingdom. mr lechner, could you stay a little longer to use your persistence and your resolve to sort out the remaining problems?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. given the long history of the eu's fundamental freedoms, it is surprising that the eu has only in recent years become more concerned with the legal problems arising from the free movement of persons. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. it is important to ensure legal protection. it is sensible to create regulations that are understandable and comprehensible to the average citizen. the possibility of choosing the law of origin in matters of inheritance fulfils this condition, since it is a right which is at least rudimentarily familiar to citizens. the citizens must be able to rely on the law applicable to their case, especially in the light of the changed environment for families in europe. he must be assured of that.
in writing. about 10% of genetic waste in the eu is foreign-related to another member state. this corresponds to a total value of approximately eur 123 billion. as the different systems of inheritance law vary widely across the eu, cross-border inheritance can be very complicated. in order to determine the applicable legal system, it is useful to refer to the place of residence of the deceased. on the other hand, if a person lives abroad and wishes to pass on his inheritance according to the law of his home country, he must be able to state this in his will. the important thing is that there should be no destruction of inheritances in europe. in this sense, a european certificate of succession allows relatives to prove their position as heirs without much red tape. this simplifies the procedure and avoids disputes. however, the european certificate of succession should be limited to cross-border situations. there is no need for further harmonization.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as we know, law today consists of a large number of binding legal norms, which are not only developed at national level but are largely drawn up at eu level and are in some cases additionally influenced by international law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. in order to keep up with the ever-accelerating legal developments, continuing training is undoubtedly essential. the eu is particularly serious about strengthening victim protection in court proceedings and ensuring sensitive treatment of traumatised victims, and legal training for lawyers is undoubtedly essential. it would also be desirable if historical legacies of minority rights and restitution issues were finally resolved in a satisfactory manner for the discriminated victims, not to mention the still existing unjust laws, such as the czech beneš decrees. it will also be interesting to see if and what changes result from the declaration no. 34 of the un human rights committee of 2011, which calls into question these punishments for denying historical facts. finally, there are a number of laws across europe which criminalize the denial of historical events, such as the armenian genocide. this is also something that will undoubtedly have to be taken into account in legal training.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has set itself ambitious targets. 50% of legal professionals to benefit from legal training across national borders by 2020 ambitious but not easy to achieve. the positive aspect is that existing national and european training opportunities should be expanded and financially supported. i would be particularly interested to know how you intend to tackle the language barrier. the survey revealed that not many judges have sufficient foreign language skills to undertake legal exchange programmes in other languages. i am also interested in how the european parliament is to be involved in the initiatives planned. as you can see from the motion for a resolution, the european parliament is fulfilling its obligations under the treaty and, especially in times of national austerity, is contributing with good ideas to the achievement of the objectives. videoconferencing, internet applications and, in the future, an erasmus programme for judges, prosecutors and, hopefully, soon also for legal practitioners and lawyers are just a few examples. finally, i would like to say in conclusion how important it is to involve the judges and the representatives of the legal professions themselves, because they know best where the shortcomings are and how they can be remedied.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr giegold, for not only involving the shadow rapporteurs and the authors of the opinion from the outset, but also involving them so much that we were able to develop the content of the report together. he mentioned that there are 17 european cooperatives, and that we are having this in 2012, the year of the cooperatives. that's very little, of course. that is to say, this european cooperative has not become the big bang. i just wonder why. it is very important to me to point this out. is it the rules that are too complex, or is there a need for this crossborder cooperation? we are trying to promote the cooperatives of the social economy with this report, to give them life, and not those which can already be run for profit. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not first of all, i would like to congratulate president van rompuy on his re-election. there will be many discussions and some points of dispute. we have a lot of work to do. secondly, i would like to congratulate the council on its decision on serbia. i believe that this is the right decision for serbia, for the region, but also for kosovo. however, unfortunately there has been no positive decision on schengen, particularly as regards bulgaria and romania. the people of bulgaria and romania deserve the schengen enlargement. i hope it will happen soon. what shocked me was what president sarkozy said after the summit. the statement by president sarkozy that schengen might be suspended. we are not going to have to come to strasbourg with a passport again. the european parliament has already been asked to give its opinion on the draft budget for the european union. you can't be serious! (applause from the centre) and now president sarkozy's spokeswoman says that the socialists in the european parliament are preventing a reform of schengen. no, we're not stopping them, we just don't want to have a setback. our path is forward in europe, not backward! i therefore call on president sarkozy not to fall into the nationalist and anti-european moths' nest, even in the face of his possible electoral defeat. let us be realistic and look to the future. let us commit ourselves to europe! it would also be good for sarkozy. (applause from the centre) i now turn to economic matters. i read the following sentences in an interview in a german magazine: how do you expect to maintain your supply and demand system if you don't care about the people who are supposed to end up buying the products? we need a system that allows low-income people to share in the profits of global financial speculation. a system is only as strong as the poor who participate in it. it wasn't an economist, it wasn't a politician who said that, it was a civil rights activist and singer, harry belafonte. unfortunately, there are many politicians in europe who do not have access to the economic sense of harry belafonte. i find that very sad. i think we have to change that in europe. (applause from the centre) it is not possible without support for demand and without support for the socially weak. but sometimes we do the opposite, for example in greece or spain. what we're achieving is the opposite of what we want to achieve. we are achieving less growth and employment instead of more, less taxes and public revenues instead of more. but what is particularly serious is the fact that we have reacted so late to youth employment. president van rompuy, you are right, the council has reacted. but since 2008, youth unemployment has skyrocketed. what do we say to the boys who can't find work? is it not scandalous that young people from europe are now forced to emigrate to argentina, angola and brazil in search of work? is it not scandalous that we have so many young people today who have to work for almost starvation wages? what do we say to this generazione mille euro, as they are called in italy, or the generazione con meno di mille euro, because many earn less than 1 000 euros? what do we say to these young people? how can we win over these young people for europe? i therefore call on my group to demand a guarantee of employment and training. yes, mr van rompuy, you were right when you said that this was a national task. the budget is also a national responsibility, and yet it is europe's responsibility. my group and i want europe to take care of young people, to give them the opportunity to have a job or to receive training. (applause from the centre) because that is part of the european social model. i want to make one thing very clear, also to president draghi of the ecb, perhaps his remarks were just misunderstood: the european social model is not dead. and the european social model must not die. we social democrats are in favour of its continuation. we must reform it, but the european social model is part of our identity. and that identity we will fully defend. in conclusion, many believe that there is resistance to reform in the population. the only reason why there is resistance to reform is because the population sees that no fair policy is being pursued. if president barroso is right to quote our study, for example on the question of tax evasion, and if we see how unfair our tax system is often and that it is the rich who prefer not to pay taxes, then that is what we must change. i am very pleased with what mr barroso and mr van rompuy have said. that's a few steps forward, but it's not enough. i am convinced that if the people of our continent see that more socially just policies will be pursued in the future, they will be prepared to make the necessary reforms. but what they do not want is for our european social model, of which we are so proud, to be abandoned. we social democrats are in favour of this model. we will defend it with all our might! (applause) 'the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.'
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. first of all, mr andy, every time i have to pull the trigger, i will think of sarkozy. especially when he's retired and can no longer pursue the politics he pursues. secondly, mr andy: yes, security and schengen are interrelated. but then i ask you why the council is still preventing - and the french government is not entirely innocent - bulgaria and romania from being included in the schengen area today, even though they have fulfilled the conditions? i would like to ask you this because the security has been created there, because of the measures. it is actually illegal that we do not, for example, extend schengen. i am very much in favour of this, but to question this in an election campaign, as president sarkozy has done, is reprehensible. schengen is a great achievement of europe. this great achievement should not be questioned but supported, because it shows that we europeans are capable of crossing our borders freely and without passports. that is what i stand for in this europe. if sarkozy does not, that is his problem. but i, and above all françois hollande and the french socialists, are in favour of this. for safety and freedom!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the last council meeting again saw decisive progress in bringing europe further on the path towards more growth and sustainable development. keyword, for example, the two-pack. one thing is clear, however: the aim of strategy 2020 is to make progress as quickly as possible. the single market must be completed and innovation and research must be promoted in order to create jobs. i am most concerned, however, about youth unemployment. we must do everything we can to reduce the current figures and give young people a fair chance. i believe that increased investment in education and training is the best basis for having a basis for such an opportunity here. let us give our youth that chance. it's her right.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it was an undramatic, remarkably quiet summit. he is described as better than his predecessors. maybe a little more seriousness and less staging would do us all some good. less blame and criticism and more action and positive reviews. it was also good that there was no merkel-sarkozy pre-conference, but that the summit was focused on, rather than putting the brakes on, the other participants. we should criticize each other less and act more. we have the single market act. let us implement it in the member states! we have the small business act, let's implement it! we have the europe 2020 strategy, let's put it into practice! we have the sme test, let's run it and draw conclusions from it! the commission proposes own resources. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the member states, so that the commission and the european institutions are not made dependent but are made more politically active and more credible. we know the esm is being increased. let us not postpone decisions, but carry them out! kosovo is not just a serbian problem, the five eu member states which refuse to recognise kosovo should finally do so. let us act and criticize less!
in writing. with regard to the southern neighbourhood strategy, it is naive to believe that democracies on the european model will emerge in north africa. the overwhelming electoral victory of islamist parties in egypt and tunisia shows that these countries, and probably libya as well, see their future not in the human rights convention but in the sharia. instead of thinking about additional burdens on eu countries in the form of north african debt relief, eu support must be linked to increased protection of religious minorities and the obligation to take back illegally-immigrant nationals. the eu itself does not take democracy too seriously. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the taxation of energy products. the signing of the so-called eu fiscal pact is another step towards a centralised european federal state. in the face of the current crisis, europe does not need a financial directorate in brussels to monitor the euro countries; a total reform of the misconstrued monetary union would be much more appropriate. if the aim is to restore normal lending, then the basel iii guidelines should certainly be considered. last but not least, the framework for an orderly greek state bankruptcy must be created, rather than wasting billions more in meaningless aid packages and thus risking years of stagnation in the eurozone.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not i have listened to you with great interest and i would like to ask you something. who are these blocking countries? how many are there, approximately, and what is it that moves them to block this? i have not yet been able to understand the reason for blocking further funds.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since 2009, the fund has been used not only to help people who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation, but also to help those who are unemployed as a result of the crisis. such measures make perfect sense as a short-term response. targeted economic measures can thus avoid social ills and emergencies, but also support enterprises. however, it is not sensible to permanently re-function the egf. the derogation also includes an increase in the eu contribution to around 65%. it's counterproductive in the long run. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the funds are properly used, and the member states and regions would be less responsible if their participation were to remain low. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively.
in writing. − the agreement between the european union and the republic of iceland and the kingdom of norway on the application of certain provisions of the conventions of 29 may 2000 would strengthen cooperation between states in combating crimes and illegality. as the rapporteur has already underlined, the agreement enables states to involve eurojust in case of refusal of a member state in the execution of a request and enhances cooperation in the fight against trans-border crime. therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − given the long history of the eu's fundamental freedoms, it is surprising that the eu has only in recent years become more concerned with the legal problems of citizens arising from the free movement of persons, etc. it is sensible to create regulations that are understandable and comprehensible to the average citizen. citizens need to be able to rely on the law that applies to their case, especially in the light of the changed environment for families in europe. the present proposal is a step in that direction, which is why i have agreed to it.
in writing. − this proposal seeks to make cross-border successions easier and to prevent conflicts by the determination of the applicable law, in order to facilitate everything it proposes. on the one hand, it creates a european certificate of succession aimed at protecting beneficiaries’ rights and, on the other hand, it establishes the law that will be applicable. therefore, this report has to be supported. in the case of intestate succession, the applicable law will be that of the country of habitual residence. a citizen drawing up a will could decide about the applicable law in his/her will, choosing between that of the country where he/she had their last habitual residence and that of their country of origin.
in writing. − the key to gender equality is the economic independence of men and women. the current economic crisis mainly hits male employment, but cuts in public spending are expected to have a disproportionate impact on female employment. the rapporteur suggests that efforts to improve labour-market participation and access to positions of power need to stay high on the agenda, with which i fully agree. its adoption will improve the equality between women and men in european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, despite being the majority of the population, women are still under-represented in political decision-making. only three eu countries currently have female heads of government. only 23% of the ministries in all member states are headed by women. the european parliament is outstanding in this respect, with a 35% share of women, but it is still far from being balanced. equal rights in society must precede equal rights in politics and vice versa. the female population must also feel represented in politics, and i therefore clearly supported the demand for effective gender equality in political decision-making positions. it's time to acknowledge that voluntary systems don't work. a system of all-round voting, which ensures a balanced balance between women and men in political positions, can be a first cornerstone in breaking up outmoded structures. the resolution is a concrete approach and therefore an important step towards active promotion of women.
in writing. - the present report, which calls for an increase in the participation of women in decision-making processes, is unfortunately a complete failure. instead of analysing the situation objectively and proposing sensible and practical measures, it has degenerated into a left-wing feminist pamphlet. in addition to the total disregard for the subsidiarity of the competence of the member states, it calls for mandatory quotas for women in management positions (board members, supervisory boards, etc.). the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it must be left to the firms and other organizations, offices and parties to decide who they will appoint to a particular function. the first and foremost criterion should therefore be qualifications and not gender. quotas for electoral lists in eu, national or regional elections are neither really practical nor meaningful, as there is no universal proportional representation in europe. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the basis of the results of the consultations. the various parties also have different structures and structures. a party with a majority of women will therefore also field more women and vice versa. in conclusion, therefore, it can be said that in this area too, supply and demand will ultimately produce a good result, and not coercive measures dictated by the eu, which is why i rejected the report.
in writing. - i cannot agree with the report in any way and there are actually 3 really scientific studies from universities since last year, namely the university of konstanz, the university of michigan and the university of cologne, which prove that: 1. companies with diversity in the top positions are not better, 2. the quota, for example in norway, causes considerable damage to the companies concerned, and 3. a quota in both the private sector and the public service is a violation of the law in force, in this sense i voted against the report. quotas risk pushing back the principle of equal treatment, because for me, any form of quota is discriminatory. quota regulation is also counterproductive, because it leads to highly qualified women being labelled as quota women. in the case of recruitment, qualifications alone should be the deciding factor, not gender.
in writing. − the promotion of the equal participation of women and men in power and decision-making to eliminate discrimination against women in political and public life as well as the adoption of ‘temporary special measures aimed at accelerating de facto equality between men and women’ are in the focus of this report. in the view of the rapporteur it is important to promote the presence of women from different backgrounds in decision-making positions, therefore this report has to be supported.
in writing. - membership of a cooperative creates a mutual obligation of loyalty between the cooperative and the member. in the case of cooperatives, there have been recent interesting developments and court decisions which have highlighted a whole range of practical problems, for example in the case of housing cooperatives. the case law in individual cases varies widely. there are problems, for example, with regard to the question of continuing a tenancy when the user of the cooperative apartment loses his membership or when cooperative apartments are sold to municipal or even private housing companies. the present report does not address these developments or does not address them sufficiently, which is why i did not approve it.
in writing. − this report highlights that cooperative societies should be one of the instruments to overcome the actual situation of crisis in europe. however, it has not been a success, and on top of that, some member states have not transposed articles of the directive referring to employees’ rights, including the gender-specific provisions. the cooperatives should be enhanced as also the involvement of its employees in order to strengthen europe’s economy.
in writing. − intergovernmental cooperation and various strategies are intended to provide incentives for an open european higher education area. in fact, however, there are a number of difficulties whose solutions are still unresolved. for example, the netherlands demands financial compensation for the many german students at dutch universities. austria has also raised problems in this respect in the council. hungary has registered a particular influx of german students in medical studies. germany, on the other hand, argues that it receives more students from other countries within the eu than it exports. the establishment of quotas to prevent an influx of students from eu countries was criticised by the ecj as unlawful. in view of the overwhelming number of courses, the bologna process cannot be based on the idea that students who would not be able to enter university in their own country should move to other countries and take the place of domestic students. i have therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. - the bologna process has been effectively stalled for several years. the single european education area remains a vision and it is time to take concrete action on the recognition of qualifications. this also requires encouraging mobility within national university systems, as in austria, for example, a student's academic results are often recognised in one state but not in another. the bologna process cannot be achieved without additional costs, i.e. financial support for universities. the money was to be used to develop national education systems to exploit the full potential of the european higher education area. in addition, there is an urgent need to reduce bureaucratic obstacles, such as the use of the numerus clausus for admission to charité university berlin, as well as relevant subjects (physics, biology, mathematics) taken in the last two years of schooling. however, these additional points are only recognised if the attendance of the subjects is attested by the school leaving certificate itself. additional official certificates are not recognised for purely bureaucratic and discriminatory reasons. the fact that austrian and french school diplomas do not contain this information means that students from these countries are placed in a worse position and are thus discriminated against. i shall abstain on this point because it is not dealt with in the report.
in writing. − the report on quality management for european statistics stresses the urgent necessity to provide better quality statistics within the eu. it is extremely necessary to enforce a european statistics code of practice, in order to have impartial, transparent and objective statistics not only at an eu level but also at a national level in cooperation with national bodies. as this report also establishes more user-friendly publications to help citizens understand statistics, i voted in favour of this report.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, it is true that it was not a question but a statement. i must say that it was a silly statement. let us now speak on the real subject. seit vielen jahren und jahrzehnten versuchen wir, ein neues europa aufzubauen, ein europa möglichst ohne grenzen. ein europa, in dem alle menschen sich zu hause fühlen, insbesondere auch – kollege daul hat es erwähnt – unsere kolleginnen und kollegen, die bürgerinnen und bürger im osten europas nach dem fall des eisernen vorhangs. für uns sozialdemokraten gibt es nur ein europa. ost, west, nord, süd – es sind alles menschen dieses kontinents, die wir respektieren müssen. es sind alles menschen, die fehler machen können und die vielleicht da und dort in der nachbarschaft ungut auffallen. aber es gibt keinen unterschied zwischen den menschen aus dem osten und aus dem zentrum europas und denen aus dem westen. wir wollen dieses europa aufbauen mit all seinen grundfreiheiten und den möglichkeiten, in ganz europa arbeiten zu können. was sind die entwicklungen? sie sind traurig. wir haben das heute schon diskutiert, auch im zusammenhang mit der drohung, schengen auszusetzen. wir haben in dänemark erlebt, dass die frühere regierung die grenzen plötzlich wieder dicht machen wollte. ich bin – abgesehen davon, dass sie die präsidentschaft innehat – der jetzigen regierung in dänemark sehr dankbar, dass sie das wieder verändert hat. es gibt eine regierung, die nach wie vor verhindert, dass rumänien und bulgarien dem schengen-raum beitreten können. zufällig die niederländische regierung. und ganz zufällig ist es dieselbe regierung, die mit einer partei zusammenarbeitet, die jetzt diese furchtbare website ins netz gestellt hat. deshalb kann ich nur wiederholen, was kollege daul bereits dazu gesagt hat, denn bei allen differenzen, die wir haben, muss dieses parlament gemeinsam vorgehen. das ist eine völlig unakzeptable, den europäischen werten widersprechende website, und sie gehört geschlossen, und zwar eigentlich von den leuten selbst, die die einsicht haben sollten, dass das nicht akzeptabel ist. was aber vor allem nicht akzeptabel ist, ist eben die nichtreaktion der niederländischen regierung, des niederländischen premierministers. dieser hat mir in einem gespräch vor kurzem gesagt, es ist ja nicht unsere website, es wäre ja noch schöner, wenn eine regierung eine solche website machen würde. aber es ist eine partei, die ja mit ihm zusammenarbeitet. wenn es auch keine formal geschlossene ehe ist, so ist es vielleicht ein konkubinat, auf jeden fall eine beziehung. die sind immer wieder gemeinsam in einem bett. das sollte eigentlich nicht der fall sein mit einer partei, die eine solche website veröffentlicht. deshalb kann ich nur noch einmal sagen, herr premierminister rutte: wir warten. wir warten noch immer auf eine klare distanzierung ihrerseits. nicht dass sie das per polizei schließen sollen, wenn es gesetzwidrig ist, wie die kommissarin gesagt hat. aber wir warten, dass herr rutte ein klares politisches bekenntnis abgibt gegen diese art, mit bürgern der europäischen union umzugehen, gegen diesen rassismus und gegen diese diskriminierung. ich schließe mich frau reding an – auch wenn sie hier nicht eine der ersten stellungnahmen von uns sozialdemokraten erwähnt haben, aber das ist jetzt nicht das thema – dass es wichtig ist, dass wir hier gemeinsam vorgehen. es ist wichtig, dass diese fraktion, wie das ganze haus, gegen rassismus und diskriminierung in europa vorgeht. herr rutte sollte das auch zur kenntnis nehmen. herr rutte sollte sich diesem appell wörtlich anschließen. (beifall)(der redner ist damit einverstanden, eine frage nach dem verfahren der „blauen karte“ gemäß artikel 149 absatz 8 geschäftsordnung zu beantworten.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i do not agree with you at all, mrs morvai. there are no tensions between peoples and between nations in europe. however, there are some political forces, including you, who are fuelling the tensions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the vast majority of this parliament, thank god, is a parliament which absolutely rejects this approach of the extreme right. i confess to this rejection! (applause from the centre)
the eu budget is one of the most important instruments of visible solidarity between member states and generations, especially in these times of crisis. i very much welcome the fact that the guidelines highlight the special importance of smes in the eu. they have created around 85% of all new jobs in the eu between 2002 and 2010, are the backbone of future economic growth and therefore need to be supported more than ever. the report also highlights the serious problem of high youth unemployment in europe. we must take the necessary steps here, quickly and decisively. the results of the europe 2020 strategy depend to a large extent on today's young people. it is educated, technologically advanced and mobile and is therefore the most important capital for growth and employment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states.
despite all the warnings about credit shortages, the eu has, as we know, relied on the various basel directives, even though the anglo-american area, from which these demands come, has already been negligent in implementing basel i. but i do not think that a one-off action of eur 82 billion in aid to small and mediumsized enterprises will be enough to make up for the mistakes of the past decades. the first is to review the basel guidelines and to ensure that smes have sustainable access to eu funding. secondly, we must finally make the bureaucratic arrangements easier. the ink on the agreement on the new strict budgetary rules is not even dry, and the test of the nails is already under way. if, for example, the economic heavyweight spain, despite its gaping budget holes, is not entitled to further savings, but on the other hand hungary is cutting subsidies because of alleged failures to meet budgetary objectives, then there is a double standard here, and that is not fair.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues from the other groups for the good cooperation. i think we have been able to reach a very good compromise on this report, but especially on the resolution that followed. there is no doubt that the re-issue of the international cocoa agreement represents a sustainable and important step towards good cooperation between cocoa-producing and cocoa-consuming countries. the creation of planning security for cocoa farmers and their families, the establishment of food security, general development cooperation and the fight against exploitative child labour are important elements for sustainable development in the cocoa sector. we have a responsibility to ensure that the producing enterprises can continue to develop on fair terms in the future. the resolution of the committee on foreign trade is devoted to the fight against exploitative child labour just mentioned. as i said at the beginning, we were able to agree on basic and correct points across the political groups. this includes, above all, the definition of child labour, because not all child labour is equally exploitative and dangerous. this is exactly what is happening in the major cocoa-producing countries. the cultivation and harvesting of cocoa beans is carried out almost exclusively by family farms. here, too, the children help their parents. access to education and the general development of children are important. we must focus on exploitative and unhealthy child labour. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that any amendment to the resolution is superfluous and i am glad that the rapporteur will transfer the good and fruitful cooperation in the committee to the plenary.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we know that the cocoa sector is under pressure. the growing demand for chocolate, for example in asian countries, is driving up the demand for cocoa, which, if the harvest is not harvested at the same time, could lead to a shortage of one million tonnes of cocoa in a few years, the total annual production of the largest producer, the ivory coast. and the growing influence of the ivorian government on the domestic cocoa market should not be overlooked in the eu. finally, for example, the 2012-2013 cocoa harvest was sold early in secret auctions due to the agrarian reform there. the millions of cocoa farmers and the millions of jobs associated with chocolate production are suffering from inhumane working conditions. if the eu wants to work on social improvements and reduce child labour through conventions, it is to be feared that the improvements will be only on paper and that the eu, as the world's largest consumer of chocolate, will only be a passing card. instead, we should focus on certified, sustainable cocoa farming.
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 14 march, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
in writing. child labour is one of the worst aspects of an economy that is purely profit-oriented. it is deeply unjust and unwise because it destroys the future prospects of societies in the long term. time and again, responsible people have stepped in, bringing attention to this scandal and bringing about much improvement through legal intervention. the european union has now largely eliminated child labour. so it is certainly legitimate to prevent child labour in other parts of the world. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the condemnation of child labour in the cocoa sector, which is presented together with the recommendation for the council decision on the cocoa agreement, is therefore another important step. it should be an incentive to ensure that child labour is strictly prohibited in all trade relations between the european union and its member states.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the fight against the diabetes epidemic in the eu.
the debate was closed by the tabling of four motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 14 march, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to thank my colleague, the rapporteur, mrs quisthoudt-rowohl, in particular for her work. i think that the vote in committee shows that you have managed to reach a good compromise with this report and this sensitive subject. congratulations on that. the european union and the united states have taken a great and important step in this settlement of the dispute. the agreement to introduce tariff quotas for high-quality hormone-free beef settled a trade dispute which had already negatively affected and caused great damage to large parts of foreign trade. after several wto rulings and mutual restrictions and trade barriers on both sides, not just in the agricultural sector but across all eu product categories, there is now security for european consumers and exporters. the committee on agriculture and rural development has also expressed its clear support in an opinion. the european citizens do not want hormone meat and the european exporters do not want trade barriers. so this report is a clear win-win situation for all of us. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the ban on the import of european beef into the united states is absolutely unacceptable, and we must continue to work constructively on this. i would like to stress the importance of settling trade disputes, especially between the eu and the us, and of directing our energies to other tasks. the european union is facing major challenges and must focus on competitiveness, innovation and growth. unfortunately, these disputes often put third countries in a better position vis-à-vis the european union. we must be absolutely aware of this fact. i would like to thank the rapporteur once again for her constructive and fruitful work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is a saying: "what lasts long, finally becomes good!" it's not always like that. sometimes things get worse the longer they last. in this case, however, it can be assumed that this long negotiation, this long struggle, has finally paid off: 10 to 15 years is a long time in which there have been major conflicts with the united states over our exports and their exports in these areas. i think that's why this solution is good. we now have fewer problems exporting certain products to the united states where this was not possible or very difficult before. we get high-quality beef, but the quotas have been increased. i do not know whether it is absolutely necessary to supply high-quality beef to europe, since we have it ourselves. but of course, in negotiations, both parties must always give something. that's what happened in this case. i think it's going to come out well in the end. we must of course - and i am giving mrs mcguinness a fairly good deal of credit - pay close attention to what is going on. but we can be satisfied in the end.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this report on the common commercial policy, better known as omnibus i, is certainly one of the important reports on the work of the european parliament on european foreign trade policy. the technical complexity of this proposal must not be allowed to deceive us. we have a very important dossier here. it defines how the committee on external trade, in a first step, and the european parliament, in a second step, will deal with delegated acts and implementing acts in the future. acta has been mentioned by colleagues as a recent example on several occasions. i would like to mention three points which i think should be emphasized because they are of great importance to us. first, there are the test procedures. test method yes the possibility of provisional measures must always be left untouched. acute situations call for rapid action. this is what the people affected by the crisis expect of us. secondly, the abolition of the consultation procedure. the treaty of lisbon has abolished the consultation procedure, and close cooperation between the institutions concerned remains necessary and desirable. this will allow misunderstandings or inconsistencies to be identified earlier and incorporated into trade policy decisions. thirdly, the deadline. a swift and effective resolution is in the interest of all concerned. the reduction of deadlines is welcome and leads to greater security for trading partners. the report shows that the abolition of the consultation procedure can save two months. the rapid completion of the examination procedure must therefore also be a priority. i welcome this report and congratulate the rapporteur once again on the successful and yet very challenging work.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think there's one thing you can say. european foreign trade policy has always been one of the european union's great success stories. why would you do that? because it is the exclusive competence of the european union and it was carried out with a specific purpose. the treaty of lisbon now makes the european parliament, for the first time, a fully equal legislator throughout the procedure, and i believe that this fact will probably make foreign trade policy even more successful. of course, it is incredibly complicated to integrate these old procedural possibilities into the new system, and i believe that with the commission's proposal on omnibus i and also on omnibus ii and with the excellent work of the rapporteur on these matters, we have succeeded in finding a system in which there is on the one hand a high level of confidence on our part, but in which there is also control, and in which the commission has the possibility of acting successfully so that what happened to us with acta - and i say this now quite consciously - will not, i hope, happen again.
mr president, i am pleased that we have managed to take the talks with iceland in a very positive direction. we are making great progress and have a common future, particularly in the energy sector. the geothermal energy, which i believe is the best in the world, is an excellent export product and will bring a lot of money to iceland. but iceland is also very active in osmosis plants, which is the generation of electricity from fresh water flowing into the sea in rivers, and then using the chemical reaction that takes place to generate electricity, or for example in tidal power plants. here iceland can build a whole new industry and a bright future, and i believe we have great opportunities together to create new wealth for iceland.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. first of all, i think we must mention wahhabism and the danger of islamic fundamentalism in bosnia and herzegovina in the report, and i agree with the rapporteur on this point. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we must be very clear that there is simply no will to unite the whole of the country. there is also no will for a common bosnian-herzegovinian identity in this state. the ethnic groups are still generally sceptical, if not hostile, towards each other. i must therefore warn against a false romanticism in relation to the development of bosnia and herzegovina. we should not be too rigidly attached to a nationwide approach. we must also consider, when we look at the constitutional development of this country, whether there are not alternatives in the form of a loose federation - which may be viable - and a complete cantonation of this country, so that we can at least have someone to talk to. this country is far from being able to join the union. candidate status is not even close.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unfortunately, in bosnia, wishes and reality are not the same. the fact that young people want to enter the eu across all borders is understandable, but the reality is, as i said, different. economically, the country is in the ground. ethnic groups are more than skeptical of each other. the administration is inefficient and, above all, i have a problem with islamic fundamentalism. it is not easy to find a solution to the problem of the problem of the unemployed, but it is not easy to find a solution to the problem of the unemployed. so a state must fulfill its duties in order to be accepted and recognized as a state. i believe that a quick flight forward, a flight to the eu, is the wrong way. i would like to say a few words about christian extremism, which has already been mentioned by a previous speaker today. christian extremism may not be particularly cool, but unlike salafists, wahhabists and sharia, it does not pose a threat to western culture, to european culture in our european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think it is also necessary that i make this clear. when i say extremism in quotation marks, i do not mean what we traditionally understand by violent extremism, but what previous speakers have already stated, namely, a christian extremism. in a religion which, for me, is itself a preacher of love of neighbour - and i understand it as such - i cannot subsume this form of extremism, which you rightly reject and which i also reject, under the name of christianity.
question for the commissioner: mr nicolai, you and your group colleague have repeatedly said that the report should not mention wahhabi extremism. do you and your colleagues really think that this extremism should be hushed up? that despite the very liberal muslim tradition of this country, the influence of saudi arabia, with a lot of money from wahhabi extremists, in this country is actually to be silenced? do you really think that extremism is gone just because you don't name it? i believe that this is a threat to the european values that you have always invoked, and that is why it is important for me to mention this extremism.
i have very much accepted that mrs pack's report contains the right elements, for example when it warns against islamic fundamentalism and wahhabism. i also share the fundamental scepticism of this report. but i voted against the report because it is based on the wrong policy of the european union towards bosnia and herzegovina. you can't decree a national unity from the outside. i am surprised to hear such statements from the greens and the liberals. we cannot decree a statewide entity from outside, including the european union, and we cannot make bosnia and herzegovina a permanent protectorate of the european union. that's what we're doing now. for twenty years this country has not been able to form a comprehensive government structure. they are not even able to prepare a budget for 2012. they are also unable to appoint heads of government and therefore cannot be expected to achieve a national unity in the next few decades. the eu's policy is wrong, and that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. the european fisheries fund (eff) is the support programme for the union's fisheries policy. the objectives of the eff include the promotion of sustainable development in the fisheries sector, the strengthening of the competitiveness of the business structures and the development of economically viable enterprises in the fisheries sector. the aim is to improve environmental protection. a key objective is to stop overfishing in some european waters and thus secure the future of fisheries. some eur 3.9 billion is available for the period 2007-13. nearly 3 billion is earmarked for areas with a below-average economic strength. the remaining funds are distributed among the other eu member states and a small proportion is managed directly by the european commission. the report has not been voted on because, as the rapporteur has also said, the commission should first of all determine the extent to which the funds needed to support projects and to restore the economy must be made available. it is also feared that this could lead to an unfair distribution of funds.
in writing. the commission proposal does not increase the budget available for each of the countries with problems in fisheries policy. the result is that the resulting total amount of investment in fisheries is even lower because of the lower national contribution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the rules on the correction of government deficits require that investment expenditure be separated from other government expenditure and should not be included in the calculation, so that fiscal consolidation and economic growth do not overlap. the commission will continue to support the development of the sector, and will continue to support the development of the sector. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
in writing. − the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1198/2006 on the european fisheries fund points out that some elements are missing from the proposal. even if more funds are to be allocated, a more precise and detailed proposal should be presented. neither the report nor the proposal specifies the source of the financial support for the continuation of cohesion programmes. as the rapporteur calls for more details to be added to the commission’s proposal, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i welcome the european parliament's agreement to continue to ban the import of hormone-treated beef into the eu, but at the same time to provide for higher import quotas for high-quality beef from the usa and canada. the adoption of this report settled a trade dispute between the eu and the us which had already adversely affected and caused great damage to several areas of foreign trade. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat terrorism. this report is a clear win-win situation. the committee on agriculture and rural development has also expressed its clear support in an opinion. i would like to stress the importance of resolving trade disputes and of directing our energies to other tasks. the european union must focus on competition, innovation and growth. trade disputes do not promote these areas.
in writing. the eu has a strong trade relationship with the usa and canada. nevertheless, there are products from overseas countries which are in breach of european health directives and are therefore not imported into the eu. this includes beef treated with growth hormones. the eu imposed an import ban on this meat on consumer protection grounds, and canada and the us imposed trade sanctions on eu imports of agricultural products. this conflict caused a decline in trade. after lengthy negotiations, a gradual lifting of the sanctions imposed by the united states and canada was achieved, as was a duty-free import quota for high-quality untreated beef. the commission has now decided to increase the quota, and canada and the united states have suspended the sanctions in return. i have abstained because the report does not indicate whether a further increase in the tariff quota could have a negative impact on the european meat industry.
in writing. − the report on the common commercial policy is an important dossier which regulates and redefines the european parliament's work on european external trade policy. the adoption of the report will simplify the handling and implementation of legislation. i welcome the time savings by the elimination of the consultation procedure, the time limits, since a rapid and effective settlement is in the interest of all concerned, and i think it is the right way to always tie the final decisions on implementation to a review procedure in order to guarantee greater security for trading partners.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty also introduced changes to the framework for the adoption of delegated and implementing acts and for the development of trade policy. the regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down the general rules and principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers lays down specific procedures for the imposition of definitive anti-dumping and countervailing duties. although some amendments are quite acceptable, i regret to say that i must reject the report as a whole.
in writing. − the draft regulation adapts these 26 regulations to regulation no 182/2011. this regulation establishes two procedures for member states to exercise such control over implementing acts: the advisory procedure and the examination procedure. in the first one, the commission only takes the opinion of the member states into account, whereas this opinion is binding in the second one.
in writing. - a one-off action in the form of a €82 billion sme support is not enough. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's financial instruments. if the economic powerhouse spain is not prepared to make additional cuts in the face of the widening budgetary gap, which remains without consequences, while hungary is being cut off from aid because of alleged failure to meet budgetary targets, then hungary should be held up as an example because the right-wing prime minister, mr orban, has violated the prevailing dogmas of political correctness. the division into members of the first and second - namely, the politically undesirable - right-wing democratic class must finally come to an end. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − after studying the report, my concern has been heightened by the unprecedented global crisis which has seriously damaged economic growth and financial stability. the basel guidelines are still under discussion, especially when it comes to red tape for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the promotion of growth and employment and specific measures and increased budgetary efforts to support competitiveness, innovation and smes are needed, as the greatest economic potential of the eu lies in smes. recent research has shown that between 2002 and 2010, a total of 85% of all new jobs in the eu were created in smes, which are the backbone of our economic growth. increased support for smes would also promote employment and vocational training, particularly for young people. i voted against the report because it does not sufficiently address the sme issue.
in writing. − the general guidelines for the 2013 budget stress the importance of measures to strengthen solidarity and to boost sustainable growth and employment. this is reflected by a focus on sme and by the action to redirect an additional eur 82 billion out of structural funds to support smes and to combat youth unemployment in the european union. therefore, this report should be supported.
in writing. − organized crime is a widespread problem within the eu, especially since the opening of the eastern borders. human trafficking and drug trafficking are also included, as are corruption, counterfeiting and money laundering. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, including the introduction of a new system of penalties for the use of the word 'crime' in the name of the community. the commission is also proposing to strengthen the existing frontex agency to stop criminals at the borders and prevent them from flooding into the eu. i abstained because i do not think that a new internal parliamentary procedure for the special committee will have any real impact on the fight against crime.
in writing. − in order to keep up with the ever-accelerating legal developments, training may be essential. it would be desirable, however, that historical burdens on minority rights and restitution issues, not to mention the unjust laws such as the beneš decrees, finally be resolved in a satisfactory way for the discriminated victims. the eu would do well to tackle these problems instead of purging itself with alleged incompetence. the commission has always found a way to get around this problem. that is why i abstained.
in writing. − the european union is the world's largest consumer of chocolate and home to some of the world's leading chocolate manufacturers. the eu must therefore ensure that raw materials are produced in a sustainable way and are free from exploitative child labour. the new edition of the international cocoa agreement marks an important step forward in cooperation between cocoa-producing and cocoa-consuming countries. we have a responsibility to ensure that the producing enterprises can continue to develop on fair terms in the future. our main focus should be on exploitative and unhealthy child labour. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − this motion for a resolution takes into account the fact that the ilo estimates that more than 215 million children worldwide are child labourers; that 70 % of world cocoa production is cultivated in west africa and all family members, including children, are involved in this work; that children working in ghana and côte d’ivoire are exposed to different types of danger; and that there are many programmes and initiatives to combat such child exploitation. having regard to all this information the parliament urges those states which have yet to ratify the un convention on the rights of the child or ilo conventions nos 138 or 182 to ratify them urgently; urges all stakeholders to live up to their responsibilities in terms of combating all forms of forced child labour and trafficking; urges the commission to ensure that all trade agreements include effective provisions on poverty reduction and the promotion of decent work and safe working conditions, along with legally binding clauses on internationally agreed human rights; welcomes all initiatives to promote best practice and calls on the international cocoa agreement partners to look into the possibility of introducing accredited, third-party-audited traceability for the cocoa supply chain.
in writing. − the cocoa sector is the livelihood of 50 million people worldwide. transparency and sustainability must therefore be further promoted in this sector of the economy. the cocoa agreement promotes fair prices that provide producers and consumers in the cocoa value chain with a fair income. it also aims to increase transparency in the global cocoa industry by compiling and analysing relevant statistics and studies. on 25 june 2010, the united nations cocoa conference, which includes the main cocoa producing and consuming countries, agreed on the cocoa agreement of 2010, which is intended to replace the agreement of 2001. the new convention will be valid for 10 years and may be renewed twice for a period of two years. the 2010 convention aims to create the conditions for a fairer and more sustainable global cocoa trade. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − diabetes is one of the most widespread noncommunicable diseases in europe. it is estimated that more than 32 million eu citizens, or just under 10% of the european population, are affected. the main reasons for this are the aging of the population, which is expected to increase to 16 percent by 2030, and unhealthy lifestyles, such as poor diet and lack of exercise. since diabetes is not curable, people need to rethink their eating habits and exercise. this would make disease at least partially preventable. i abstained because i believe that each member state should, in accordance with its possibilities in the health sector and also in the insurance sector, come up with national solutions concerning the disease of diabetes.
in writing. − the report states that diabetes is one of the most common non-communicable diseases, estimated to affect more than 32 million eu citizens, or nearly 10% of the total eu population. moreover, the number of people living with diabetes in europe is expected to increase by 16.6% by 2030, as a result of the obesity epidemic, the ageing of the european population and other factors yet to be determined.
in writing. - the eu is also looking to bring macedonia closer to the eu, as it has done with bosnia and herzegovina. we see the future of this country in the union if it continues its efforts to date and fulfils the tasks and objectives assigned to the republic to the satisfaction of all. the rapporteur deserves to be praised for his work. he identified and cited the main points. i share the rapporteur's view that the name and language dispute with greece must be resolved. i have voted in favour of the report, although there are some points which i find critical.
in writing. − as macedonia has a very good balance sheet, macroeconomic stability can be assumed to be sustained. the implementation of legislative reforms over the past five years has also ranked third in the world. foreign direct investment is set to increase in the coming years due to the global economic downturn, and the potential for investment, trade and economic development is a strong argument for pursuing the country's eu accession. i believe that real progress by the government and the implementation of eu reforms can help create a political environment that is conducive to resolving bilateral issues in particular. i am critical of the lack of equality for women and of some discriminatory customs and stereotypes. i also share the commission's view that corruption in the country remains a serious concern. on the other hand, i am confident that by moving closer to the eu and making continuous efforts, corruption can be curbed. i voted for the report for these reasons.
in writing. − iceland is a european country and, unlike turkey, is culturally and historically part of europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's external relations are not affected by the crisis. but there is no reason for the european union to give gifts to iceland. in particular, the eu must not pay for iceland's debts. nor can the debts of failed icelandic banks be passed on to individual eu member states. it is also important that the icelandic people are not pressured into anything. it must be able to decide freely and without brussels' propaganda on any possible accession. i have therefore abstained.
in writing. - i am firmly convinced that the western balkan countries should be brought closer to the european union. but for this to happen in a reasonable way, these countries must meet the accession criteria and the european values. the progress report welcomes the progress made by bosnia and herzegovina in many areas. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it proposes, among other things, that the federal structure enshrined in the dayton treaty should be dissolved in the medium term in favour of a central state. i also find it unacceptable that children should be denied instruction in their mother tongue, although there must be a voluntary option for multilingual education. in general, all options should be kept open with regard to the future of bosnia and herzegovina. it does not exclude border changes, for example in the event of a positive referendum in a region on joining a neighbouring country. for the reasons i have mentioned, i did not vote for the progress report.
in writing. - the opening of accession negotiations with serbia is a historic milestone, because the european perspective now possible for the balkans could finally bring about a breakthrough in the stalemate in the former yugoslavia. the current government of serbia has done much to remove serious obstacles. you deserve respect for that. the situation in bosnia-herzegovina, more than 15 years after dayton, is still far below expectations and possibilities. the former partners in the conflict are blocking each other. it is above all the leadership of the serbian entity that stands out for its lack of sensitivity. influential circles are still working towards the disintegration of the state. but it is necessary to insist on the inviolability of the integrity of the state. only in this way can we ensure in the long term what we all need: peace and prosperity in the countries of the western balkans.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not in fact, we have seen two elections in russia recently that we cannot describe as fair and free. there has been progress compared with previous elections, but this progress has been small and has been corrected and worsened in part by the behaviour of some leading officials. in both cases, it started with the registration of candidates. many candidates who would undoubtedly have been accepted in other countries were not allowed to stand at the elections. i think that is not justified, because the conditions that are being set here are conditions that are designed in advance in such a way that some candidates cannot even stand for election. secondly, we must criticise the reporting in the various media, which was not at all balanced, especially, of course, in the electronic media - because television is now the most important thing - even though the purely formal election programmes were fairly rationally distributed. but if putin presents himself at every opportunity as an animal lover, as a rescuer of the siberian tigers, i do not know in what capacity, then this is of course also indirect election advertising. thirdly, there have been various pressures on the voting process, which unfortunately have led us to make this critical judgment about the elections. this is - and this is also a progress of democracy, also a progress in the development of russia - met with unwillingness, incomprehension and resistance. because whatever we criticize, at least people in russia today dare to go out and demonstrate on a larger scale than ever before. it is clear that some of our reactions are to be rejected and rejected. we must therefore be critical of the brutal treatment of demonstrators, for example, or at least of their temporary arrest, which is something we cannot tolerate. but i would like to see it as a positive sign that many demonstrations took place and in many - not in all - cases the police acted quite correctly. in any case, the point is not to make another of those x-th evaluations of the elections, but to mention and underline the opportunity that now exists in russia. i think that's it. another resolution condemning the elections, that is not the purpose of this resolution - although we are of course also strongly critical of some things - but now we must call on all sides to finally adopt a package of reforms. it's a chance for medvedev to finally stand up as president and say, "i made a difference in this country!" with all the hopes that have been placed in me and not fulfilled for years, now i have shown that something is possible! it's a chance for putin to start his new presidency with a reform program and say, well, i've been criticized a lot, but now i'm showing that i'm also capable of taking this russia forward in terms of democracy and modernization. and it's also a chance for the opposition to show that they can not only oppose, but they can influence things. that should be the message from this house! we want to support together the forces in russia that want reforms, that want to say that russia must take a new path into the new millennium that has already begun. russia must carry out its reforms. russia must become more democratic. because one thing must also be clear, modernization without democracy cannot work and therefore we need more democracy in russia together with more modernization. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
question for the commissioner: i have two questions to ask you, mr swoboda: you said the elections in russia were not fair and not free. how do you assess the contradiction that is brought to light by the fact that your own party member, the socialist federal councillor schennach, who, like me, was an election observer in russia, said at a press conference that the elections had been amazingly free and amazingly fair? second question: you have criticised the fact that during the election campaign there was indirect election advertising on russian television through government coverage. how do you explain the austrian government's coverage, when three quarters of all reports in the orf are devoted to the government under your chancellor faymann?
answer to three questions on the blue card procedure. ladies and gentlemen, we can see that there are very different assessments. i just want to remind you that it's not about our feelings, whether we acknowledge something or not. the point is that now is the opportunity to move forward with a process of reform. and when the opposition in russia says we want to reform now, should we say: no, you can't, because this is a wrong system, these were not elections at all? let us not be more papal than the pope! let's be helpful to the opposition in russia. let us help the opposition to do something, and, mr migalski, of course we can criticize much more. but the question is, how can we help bring those two together? because that is the great interest, if we want a partner in russia, then we want a partner who is strong and democratic. that's my goal. and it's not about the past, it's about the future, and that's what the opposition wants, too. mr stadler, who is new to this house, said that today's debate was not about austria but about russia. you may not have noticed. it's about europe and russia, that's the key, and i want the next time we can really talk about free elections. it hasn't been a free and fair election yet, but let's help the opposition come to a solution with medvedev so that putin becomes another president because he has different rules. we won't be able to change putin, but the rules under which putin rules can now be changed by the opposition with our support.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all know that russia has democratic and human rights deficiencies. that's not a question. but the fact is that the former motherland of real socialism has a long road to open democracy, and russia is not measured by western standards. however, i also believe that putin's new presidency has the chance to take a new step towards further democratization, that there is a chance to review the detention of political prisoners, that the non-registration of opposition parties could be reviewed and that putin's election promises to fight corruption could become a reality. russia should be given this chance. i think that we europeans should not always be walking around with our finger pointing in the direction of democracy. there are also democratic deficits in the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations.
question for the commissioner: i would like to ask you, mr brok, whether you have spoken to your italian colleague mrs gardini, whom i myself met as an election observer in russia during these presidential elections, and who declared in a public press conference that these elections were fair and free.
mr president, the house, this parliament and most of the speakers in this house are acting as if russian citizens were minors. that's not the case. the russians themselves know very well who they want to vote for and who they don't want to vote for, and they wanted stability. i have heard this in numerous conversations with russian citizens whom i have led unobserved and unhindered on the street. stability, they never want to go back to the thieving days of the yeltsin government. i myself was an election observer, and i met only one member of this house, mrs gardini of the ppe group, and i myself visited the polling stations in the province of kale, 1,200 kilometres from moscow. the candidates, in particular candidate gennadi zyuganov, candidate vladimir shirinovsky and candidate mikhail prokhorov, were observed in all polling stations. there were commissions, there were transparent, sealed ballot boxes. fifteen percent of polling stations had webcams, so that people could watch the elections at home via the internet. everything that has been said here about the presidential elections in russia is not true according to my subjective observation. i do not want to say anything about the duma elections, but i have observed the presidential elections myself, and what is being said here is not true. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the media market in austria is no different from the media market in the united kingdom. we're used to it. we had a state monopoly on radio in austria until ten years ago. that is why no one has discussed austria in this house. we have a state television that covers the government almost exclusively. so there's not that much of a difference. i know these things. it is a condescending attitude to dismiss as nonsense anything which does not conform to the mainstream of this house, as mr brok has done with regard to his own colleague mrs gardini, or as you have just done. i was there myself. i've seen it myself, and i'm not gonna let you talk me out of my own perceptions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the allegations coming from the kazakh government that hooligans and foreign provocateurs were behind the violent events surrounding the oil workers' demonstrations remind us of similar statements from syria. it's never the government or the authorities' fault. perhaps due to international pressure and fear of a nationwide strike, the sentence against the lawyer who advised the striking oil workers in kazakhstan was changed from a prison sentence to a probationary sentence. it should be remembered that the arrest itself should never have taken place. we must also think of those activists and oil workers who are still awaiting trial. it is also critical that police officers who, according to video recordings, shot fleeing strikers in the back, should expect only mild punishments. the only way to get a full explanation of what is going on is to set up an international independent commission of inquiry. the only right step, then, may be to end the violence against activists and return to open dialogue. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. you are certainly right, the comparison with syria is of course not entirely accurate in that the violence that exists in syria has not occurred in kazakhstan. however, it is certain that the rule of law is not present in kazakhstan in this respect either.
mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it may be that there are some specifics about terrorism and violence in nigeria. it has also long been known that there is sharia law in 12 states. thousands have died in nigeria over the years. we know all this, and nothing has happened for years. but overall - and i would like to follow up on this point with my colleague mr provera - it is clear that in many muslim countries, which are supposedly in a new spring, there is a massive persecution of christians. whether it's in egypt, saudi arabia, iraq, pakistan, syria or sudan, it's striking that more and more christians are coming under pressure and we don't have an answer to that. the european union must therefore make the attempt to develop and justify a new offensive and defensive strategy and to incorporate it into its policy. it is not enough to adopt this declaration tomorrow. as right as it may be, it's not wrong, so you can carry it with you, but it's not done. paper is patient. sadly, the situation of christians in these countries is not so "patient", and the people there are in desperate need of our help. the european union must therefore - and this has nothing to do with religious conflicts - assist these christians, including in terms of freedom of religion and conscience, and devise new strategies and new developments to help these people better and put more pressure on governments to actually help these people.
the debate was closed by the tabling of seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 15 march, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the statements by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in belarus [2012/2581 ((rsp) ].
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commissioner and, of course, chris davis and our shadow rapporteur for the report. i think we've made some improvements here. it is important for us to have planning certainty. but planning security also means, of course, that we distinguish between legal instruments and proposals for the longer term. that is why it was particularly important for us as epp not to intervene in the existing rules of the ets until 2020, even though - i have to admit - the co2 price is currently low. but we need to show our companies how to invest. the current economic crisis has also given us wrong market signals. the balance to be struck here is not just about the internal community, so to speak, but also about our external competitiveness. i believe that we have a very ambitious climate policy here in europe. i would remind you that commissioner hedegaard has come home from durban with some successes. nevertheless, the industrial base of europe must also be preserved. it must be strengthened, not weakened. otherwise, i am worried that the big emitters will leave, jobs will be lost and the climate will be damaged. as i said, when you talk about periods up to 2050, of course, predictions are always very difficult. so i want to read you a few more predictions that have been made in the past. for example, gottlieb daimler has said: 'the world demand for motor vehicles will not exceed one million, due to the lack of available drivers alone.' this should perhaps also give you pause, and show how certain the predictions are actually for the distant future.
the commission has already done so. i would like to thank you for the opportunity to make a few comments here at catch the eye. there have been a number of statements today which have given the impression that if everything is kept as it is, it will not be more expensive. i thank mathias groote for pointing out that it's not just about quality of life, that it's not just about a healthy environment, clean water and clean soil for the future, but that it's also about thinking really economically. because what we risk today with a carbon-laden environment is extreme costs for the future, not just for health care, but for the entire economy. and when i hear today that alternatives like tar sands and shale oil are being called the technologies of the future, i sometimes really wonder where some of my colleagues have gone. we talk about a low-carbon future, and today we are getting proposals that would do just the opposite. i would like to thank chris davies very much for this balanced report. there are, i think, a few comments: we need a policy that is concerned with the people of the present, but also thinks a little bit into the future.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. we have prepared a resolution for the sixth world water forum, which is taking place in marseille this week. unfortunately, many of our colleagues are unable to attend because we are in plenary. but i would like to remind you that this is the sixth world water forum and that we already have a un resolution from 2010 that refers to the human right to water and sanitation. i think we should take that as a starting point for our reflections in our resolution. but first, let me recall a few numbers. earth is a blue planet, characterized by the fact that most of its water is salt water. the water reserves amount to 1.4 billion cubic kilometres, of which only 2.5% is usable fresh water. most of this fresh water is stored in groundwater and we have only 1% of it available for actual human consumption. that's two hundred thousand cubic kilometers. 60% are already in use. and if we see that global water consumption is increasing at twice the rate of population, i think that's something to think about. we must also consider how we can secure this global consumption in the long term. at present, according to un figures, about 70% of the total is spent on irrigation in agriculture, about 22% in industry and 8% in households. at the same time, we're seeing very strong urbanization, especially in the developing world. the projections also point to a 50% increase in water consumption in this developing world by 2050. if we also remember that by 2050, we're likely to be 9.3 billion people on earth, and we need 70 percent more food for that world population, we can imagine how much water stress will be. however, there are also positive signs. we have achieved the first millennium development goal of access to clean drinking water. the latest un report shows this. we have exceeded it by 89% and we may even reach 92% by 2015. i am afraid that we are not yet ready to do so in the sanitary field. but it does make it very clear that if we want to move forward, if we want to make progress in solving our water challenges, we have to clearly rely on economic development, because these successes were actually made possible by the access of the chinese and indian populations to clean drinking water. unfortunately, there is still very little positive to report, particularly in sub-saharan africa. i also think very positively, and i think many of my colleagues agree with me, that the motto of this sixth world water forum is 'time for solutions'. we have made a great many resolutions. the point now is that we must put these resolutions into practice. the world water forum is in the process of developing 12 key priorities with three strategic objectives. one is to ensure the well-being of the people. second, to preserve the blue planet. and thirdly, to contribute to economic development. so what should we do to achieve these goals? we have made some reflections on this in our resolution. first of all, it is essential that we improve the data situation. there is still a very large gap in the actual data on water, what flows in, what flows out, what consumers there are, how much is polluted and so on and so forth. the data situation needs to be improved in order to be able to conduct a proper policy. secondly, we must think and act in terms of river basins. this is also the central concept of the water framework directive. but this concept needs to be transferred worldwide. there's a un resolution on this too. but that's the central concern of countries working together across borders. we also know that in many, many areas, water is a source of conflict. but i also believe that there is a great opportunity when we have to work together, and that we can also make policies that are peaceful and that are peace-keeping. it is also crucial that decisions on future location issues should include all water-related issues. this is particularly true of industry. this applies to agriculture and, of course, to industrial production. water has a very strong regional component, in some areas it is extremely scarce, in others it is available. i therefore believe that the one-size-fits-all principle has not lost its usefulness in the water sector.
mr president, the previous sessions of the world water forum have been motivated by the desire to regulate the economical and correct use of the precious resource of water. that is to be supported. i am grateful to mr seeber for mentioning in this context the directive of 23 october 2000, the so-called water framework directive, which is intended to regulate water management in river basins. the aim is to change the charging structures in these countries so that the water and wastewater charges both focus on water conservation and reward conservation. the commissioner has been asked to explain why the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented. the countries would have had until 2009 to implement the directive, but this did not happen. for three years now, several countries have been in default, including my own country, austria. i therefore ask the commissioner that if we want to be credible in future world water forums, we in the commission should attach importance to the implementation of these water framework directives and take care of it. finally, however, i believe that despite all the shortcomings that can be found in any resolution, the resolution is fundamentally correct and that this is the right message from the european parliament to the sixth world water forum, and i will therefore also be voting in favour of this directive.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. over a thousand farms across europe are now affected by the schmallenberg virus, and as the virus is spread by mosquitoes, this number will increase with the rising temperatures in spring. but new diseases are regularly appearing, especially in countries with large-scale livestock production, such as germany, france, england, and the netherlands. we must therefore take a new approach to animal husbandry, away from mass farming and the associated human diseases. we must move towards small, structured, environmentally oriented farms, as we know them from the alpine region, as we know them from my home country austria. i think it is much more sensible to maintain preventive, ecologically sustainable farming than to resort, as we must now, to emergency measures to compensate and ultimately to vaccinate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against this resolution today, simply because i believe that it must be the right of every citizen of the european union, and more than that, to choose the way in which he or she lodges and conducts his or her complaint. he can do this through the internet, he can do this through the mass media, he could do this in the past through the newspapers, and without the patronage of the citizen by political correctness. but - and here i agree with mr kamiński - i think it is fundamentally wrong to mention nations, whether they are in the european union or outside the european union. in particular, i think it is fundamentally wrong to mention the polish nation on this website. my experience with the polish community in austria is quite different and does not justify such a designation. crime is not national, but it is the only thing that is almost certainly international.
mr president, i am very glad that mr uspaskich spoke before me, because i can confirm what he himself has observed, because i myself was an election observer in russia. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on this matter. it was significant how the debate went. anyone who did not join the chorus of russia critics was immediately dismissed as stupid, as my czech colleague did to me, or as nonsense, as mr brok did to mrs gardini. the same people who want to teach russians about freedom of speech and pluralism are not prepared to tolerate freedom of speech here in the house, and that you don't even notice this contradiction is particularly dramatic. the russians are not minors. the russians know how to organize their democracy, and the russians wanted stability in this election. they never want to go back to the thieving days of yeltsin, when many of those living in the west today shamelessly enriched themselves on russian goods. that's the obstacle to this election decision!
mr president, i voted for this resolution, but i would like to say that this is just one area of concern that we have to look at. we must recognize that there are massive attacks on christians and christian communities in muslim countries as a whole, such as the copts in egypt. this has intensified since the so-called arab spring. the same is true in syria, where rebels are also attacking christians, as well as in saudi arabia and iraq. the iraqi christians have shrunk to a very small minority since the so-called liberation. i know iraqi refugees in austria myself. if the danish minister for the presidency of the council yesterday said that we should not make a religious conflict out of this, then that is naive. it is a religious conflict, and this religious conflict threatens the christian brothers in these countries, and we must therefore do much more for these christian communities.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have had a very interesting and good debate today on the resolution which we are putting before the sixth world water forum. i think it was also important that the commissioner announced that action would be taken against those countries which are lax in implementing the water framework directive. the aim is to send a signal to countries outside the scope of the water framework directive that the european union is taking the lead in the conservation and proper use of water. but we should fundamentally consider whether we are not going to establish separate water cycles in the future. we must distinguish between drinking water and drinking water in general. this has to be a global issue, because we cannot stand by and watch people in developing countries living with bad water, which was previously used for industrial and domestic purposes, as drinking water. we have to make sure that we get to separate water cycles for people.
in writing. - it is with a heavy heart that i have decided to vote against this report, which contains a number of positive and necessary approaches to tackling climate change at european level by pooling action without jeopardising the competitiveness of european businesses. but despite the eu's repeated commitments to phase out nuclear energy, this report contains some indirect and/or explicit statements that see nuclear power as the solution to carbon-free or low-carbon energy production. this is a contradiction to me, both personally and politically.
in writing. − i have decided to vote against this report, which contains a number of positive and necessary approaches to tackling climate change at european level by combining measures without jeopardising the competitiveness of european businesses. but despite the eu's repeated commitments to phase out nuclear power, there are some indirect and/or explicit statements in this report that see nuclear power as the solution to a carbon-free/low-energy production. this is a contradiction to me, both personally and politically.
in writing. - emission trading is a dubious instrument of environmental policy aimed at reducing emissions. in the european union, the eu emissions trading system for carbon dioxide emissions was introduced by law in 2005. emissions trading links greenhouse gas emissions to the possession of allowances: each greenhouse gas emitter is only allowed to release the amount of pollutants for which it holds emission allowances. if fewer pollutants are released than permitted, excess rights can be resold. on the other hand, those responsible for releasing too many greenhouse gases can buy emission rights. there are also generous exemptions from the state. all this opens the door to speculation and misses the real purpose of the regulation, which is to reduce co2 emissions. the high level of emission trading is therefore not conducive to investment in the creation of a low-carbon economy. the report also contains a number of important recommendations, including the need to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented.
in writing. − as a matter of principle, emissions trading starts with a cap on greenhouse gases. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. those countries whose emissions are below the ceiling can buy excess allowances. on the other hand, countries that emit greenhouse gases beyond the cap can buy these emission allowances. since the allowances are tradable on the open market, the price is determined by supply and demand. the issue of emission allowance trading is problematic in several ways: the market is not transparent, speculators manipulate the prices on the trading platforms. in addition, some of the alleged environmental projects in emerging countries are supported, the climate impact of these projects is systematically overestimated, and many of them are even counterproductive. in conclusion, i do not think that the high level of emissions trading is supporting investment in low-carbon technologies. but this would be urgently needed to reduce the greenhouse effect. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. − i have decided to vote against this report, which contains a number of positive and necessary approaches to tackling climate change at european level by combining measures without jeopardising the competitiveness of european businesses. but despite the eu's repeated commitments to phase out nuclear energy, this report contains some indirect and explicit statements that nuclear power is the solution to carbon-free and low-carbon energy production. this is a contradiction to me, both personally and politically.
in writing. - i have decided to vote against this report because it contains some indirect and explicit statements which see nuclear power as the solution to a co2-free/low energy production. this is a contradiction to me, both personally and politically. the eu should commit itself to phasing out nuclear energy and reducing greenhouse gases by promoting renewable energy sources. the european union has been a major player in the development of climate policy, and the fundamentalists of the market have been far too dominant. for too long, much needed energy development has been prevented and neglected. that has to change. renewable energy should be at the heart of european climate policy. we need more courage!
in writing. − in the netherlands, geert wilders' party for freedom (pvv) recently launched a website to serve as a 'reference point' for dutch people to share their experiences - both positive and negative - from working life with eastern europeans. this gives citizens the opportunity to pass on this information directly to their representatives - in this case to those from the pvv - who can then use this information in their work. since the opening up of the labour market in the western european member states has led to a drastic increase in the number of eastern european workers, this measure by pvv is quite understandable. the homepage should not be used to denounce individual citizens. privacy must be respected. i did not vote for the report because i also believe that the handling of this site is a purely national matter and should be settled within the netherlands.
in writing. − internet appearances such as those of the dutch right-wing populist freedom party are alarming signs of the mood in europe. we must work together to build a europe of tolerance and respect - not of exclusion and denunciation. in this sense, such websites are clearly to be rejected and condemned. at the same time, it also shows the importance of active anti-discrimination work - including on the internet.
in writing. − even if everything had been done fairly, the opposition would have had little to do, given the juxtaposition of completely different political aims, the lack of common concepts and a credible leader. russia is not measured by western standards. the road from a post-communist country to open democracy is a long one, as the various colourful revolutions have shown. the eu should refrain from giving russia democratic political lessons and should rather reduce its own democratic deficit and end the left-wing authoritarian pressure on hungary. i therefore rejected this resolution.
in writing. − this motion for a resolution assesses the results of the russian presidential elections held in march. it is recalled that, although the results of the elections have been accepted, they have generated many complaints and thousands of citizens are unhappy. the osce/odihr and other agencies have developed conclusions which reveal the existence of irregularities. that is why it asks the new government to raise awareness of the need to modernise its democratic institutions and ensure respect for human rights, which are today in question.
in writing. − the partnership and cooperation agreement between kazakhstan and the ec, which entered into force in 1999, has been renegotiated since june 2011 and is to be replaced by an enhanced agreement. closer economic cooperation must go hand in hand with an improvement in the human rights situation. although there are initial positive signals from the kazakh leadership in this regard, the most serious concerns are justified by the recent events in kazakhstan, especially with regard to the human rights situation and respect for the rule of law and democratic principles. the important economic and political situation of kazakhstan in central asia requires the implementation of common values and standards in order to promote economic progress and stability. i have voted in favour of the resolution on the basis of these basic considerations.
in writing. − the government of president nursultan nazarbayev has been in office since 1991 and its contribution to improving its citizens’ conditions is declared to be insignificant. the stability of kazakhstan is essential for the economic and diplomatic balance in central asia. therefore, the eu should urge the kazakh government to improve its protection of human rights, fundamental freedoms and media independence. in view of the possible accession of the country to the wto, the motion envisages the possibility of a close monitoring of the eeas to support nazarbayev’s government in addressing these issues. all in all, i voted in favour of this joint motion as it represents a step forward in the democratization process of a country, which is intensifying its relations with the eu.
in writing. − water-saving technologies and increasing environmental awareness have led to a massive reduction in drinking water use. the resulting longer residence time makes chlorine use necessary to prevent germination and sulphur formation attacks sewage pipes. so if you want to save money by increasing the cost of water, you're thinking too short-term. if groundwater consumption has tripled in 50 years, it is mostly because fertilizers and pollutants have made surface water unusable for drinking water or too expensive to extract. eu development aid will therefore have to focus not only on reducing population growth but also increasingly on wastewater treatment. in addition to using the savings potential in the agriculture of the southern member states, the amount of fertilisers and pollutants must be reduced. the resolution contains some good ideas, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − particularly in developing and emerging countries, significant sections of the population do not have secure access to clean water. more than half a billion people have to drink contaminated water, and over 2.5 million children die each year because of a lack of access to clean, hygienic water. i consider that access to safe water is a basic human right and that the provision of safe water is of particular importance in the maintenance of internal and external peace. measures at all levels are therefore needed to increase the efficiency of water consumption and recycling, particularly in the sectors with the greatest potential for savings. on the one hand, appropriate measures must be taken within the eu. on the other hand, it is also necessary to allow the transfer of know-how for more efficient water use and extraction in developing countries. last but not least, it is also necessary to reduce the water load, for example by chemicals. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
i have to say, madam president, on 29 february, two palestinian tv stations were shut down in a raid. the equipment was seized and, according to the israeli ministry of communications, repeated warnings were issued against these stations, allegedly for broadcasting without a license on frequencies that disturb ben-gurion airport. on the other hand, the palestinians claim that there were no warnings and that therefore all accusations should be rejected. the high representative must therefore urge both sides to urgently resolve these points of dispute, and the eu could act as a neutral arbiter. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the matter. the european parliament has been very active in the fight against terrorism, and it has been very active in the fight against terrorism, and it has been very active in the fight against terrorism.
i have to say, madam president, yes, the arab spring has unfortunately become an arab winter. the world press is currently mainly reporting on the sad events in syria, possibly libya, and seems to have forgotten the massacres of coptic christians in egypt and, of course, the incidents in bahrain. in bahrain alone, more than 45 people have been killed in the outbreak of shiite protests against the sunni ruling family. only on saturday did the police again use tear gas against peaceful protesters. but it is not just the bahraini security forces who are to blame. the european union has also been involved in the conflict in the middle east, and the united states has been indirectly involved in the conflict. they are ensuring that the forces of the status quo are currently stronger than those of change. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union. the demands of the bahrainis for social justice, reforms and a constitutional monarchy should therefore also be taken seriously by the eu, and we must not use double standards, especially in relation to developments in the arab region.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. although it will be a long, hard road before serbia becomes a full member: candidate status is a significant step forward, especially for a country that was the target of nato attacks 13 years ago. serbia is a european country in every sense of the word, culturally, historically and geographically. in addition, serbia and belgrade have demonstrated in the past year that they are able to meet the accession criteria. the eu has also seen an increasing number of asylum seekers as a result of the visa-free regime introduced in december 2009. unfortunately, this visa-free regime is being abused to trade in fake asylum seekers. in fact, the majority of asylum seekers are ethnic minorities. but serbia is also becoming a destination country for asylum seekers. the eu must therefore, in the context of the accession negotiations, advocate, promote and demand an efficient asylum system in serbia.
in writing. it should be clear that the eu is not the only option for serbia and that the long-standing link with russia is all too easily remembered. the crisis in the european union and the fear of further blackmail on the kosovo issue are keeping serbs' enthusiasm for candidate status at a reasonable level. the eu is also concerned about the situation in kosovo, which is a major political issue in the region, and the situation in the country, which is a major political issue in the region. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the threat to stability in the balkans is the state of kosovo, which was created under pressure from the americans and which would not be viable without generous funds from brussels. this region, which declared its independence in violation of un resolution 1244, is certainly not in a position to become a member of the eu in its present form.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, my report this year aims to send a strong signal to the citizens of kosovo that the future of independent kosovo lies in the european union. this report acknowledges the work the european union has been doing over the last months and years, and these important steps forward regarding the republic of kosovo – be it the launching of the visa dialogue and the fact that the roadmap, as commissioner füle has now confirmed, is to be delivered this spring, or the fact that the dialogue between priština and belgrade, between kosovo and serbia – have led to some positive results. this needs to continue after the serbian elections. what are these results? regional cooperation, where kosovo can now participate on its own account in international and regional organisations, and the agreement on border management which, for the first time, constitutes a bilateral agreement between the two states. nevertheless, i would also call on serbia to sign the agreement, as it has promised. in addition, with his visit yesterday, commissioner füle launched the feasibility study, as we have already said, which is the first step for the further progress of kosovo and towards the stabilisation and association agreement. my report also calls on the five recalcitrant member states of the european union to recognise kosovo, because this would make the eu’s efforts even more effective. nevertheless, there are still challenges in kosovo itself: the fight against corruption and organised crime, building up a functioning economy and social developments, so that people can feel the desire, the need and the will to work in their own country and to build it up. there must be electoral and constitutional reforms, and all the perpetrators of electoral fraud in the last elections must be brought to justice. the rule of law and media freedom: there are still things to be done. regarding the north, my report calls on the government in priština to reach out to the serbs in the north and for the serbs in the north to implement the ahtisaari plan, because it would provide municipalities with wide-ranging autonomy. it also calls on serbia to refrain from holding local elections in the north, which would violate international law and would not be in line with resolution 1244, and to stop supporting perilous structures. i hope my report will find broad support, even as regards the amendments that i had to table because the first vote was two months ago now, in the committee on foreign affairs, and many things have happened since, as i have tried to relate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not going to tell you. the report by mrs oomen-ruijten is certainly worthwhile in that it at least shows the restrictions on freedom of the media, freedom of expression and human rights violations in turkey. but overall, one has to have the impression that the eu and this parliament are in some way denying reality with regard to turkey. turkey is moving away from europe, despite the new constitution. the new constitution does not change the fact that prime minister erdoğan is increasingly authoritarian. this turn away from europe is reflected in the increasing islamization of the country, it is reflected in turkey's attitude to the armenian genocide, and it is reflected in turkey's arrogant attitude towards the next council president, cyprus. overall, turkey is moving away from europe. however, it does use the guidance provided. all this should lead us to finally admit that turkey is not a european country and should never really be a member of this union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, on behalf of the verts/ale group i would also like to thank mr tannock for a very good report and the constructive cooperation we had in order to reach compromises. also on behalf of the verts/ale group, i would like to welcome the clear support this parliament is going to give tomorrow to the european union starting negotiations with montenegro. this is an important step forward. it is also one step to keep up this enlargement momentum that we now have with croatia, with candidate status for serbia, and with dialogue between kosovo and serbia going ahead. yes, montenegro is ready and is doing quite well. many of the amendments that we tabled have been accepted, or have been voted in the committee on foreign affairs: on environment, on large-scale dams. that was very positive, but still there is one thing that is very problematic in montenegro and that is the corruption problem. it has been addressed by several colleagues, especially concerning the privatisation processes. state-owned companies – aluminium, telecom, electricity – there were large-scale protests just recently in podgorica against this, and the government really has to look into this and move ahead. in addition, the threats against investigative journalists, mentioned by mr färm and also by commissioner füle, are not isolated cases and the government really has to step up its support for freedom of the media. one last issue: the law on financing of political parties. implementation of that law has been largely delegated to the state electoral commission, and do you know who that is composed of? representatives of political parties. that is simply not the way to control financing of parties and i think changes are still needed there. let me end on a very positive note, on lgbt issues. here, there has been progress in montenegro recently and i would like to add one aspect of regional initiatives. montenegro and the government have just recently held a regional conference on lesbian, gay bisexual and transgender rights with croatian, serb and kosovo representatives. that is a good thing.
in writing. the european union invests heavily in image campaigns designed to make the benefits of the union more palatable to the citizen. any smart businessman knows that a good product doesn't need advertising. the eu's mistake is also implicitly clear in the issue of "expanding the resettlement programme": the discrepancy between the reality of life, at least for the citizens of the older eu states, and the pathological transformation rage of many eurocrats. despite the massive integration problems facing immigrants from completely foreign cultures, resettlement programmes are to be expanded and given even more resources. the fact that refugees are being brought into the eu from safe third countries is not a sign of solidarity but of stupidity! effective aid would be to provide financial and structural support to third countries hosting refugees and to promote peace-building, democracy-building and humanitarian projects, especially in crisis regions. the crazy idea that the eu can provide a warm place for every needy person in the world is self-defeating. sustainable aid can only be provided on the ground. the idea of refugee assistance is being reduced to the absurdity of the definition of permanently persecuted groups and the concept of resettlement. if you have to leave your home because of the horrors of war, you should be able to find refuge in a safe country. but this cannot mean permanent resettlement with a guarantee of prosperity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. eurostat currently forecasts an inflation rate of 2.7% for this year. in comparison, the ep's budgetary approach for 2013 can be described as adequate and economical. it is a message to our citizens that we as parliamentarians are acting prudently, showing restraint in these difficult times for many member states. but at the same time we must stress that the reduction in appropriations for maintenance, language services or other services will in the medium term eat away at the substance, the capacity to act and the quality of parliamentary work and infrastructure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. i would like to thank the bureau and the general secretariat for their constructive work and mr vaughan for his willingness to cooperate.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the commission is not prepared to accept this. what is the corporate governance framework for european companies? it's about drawing the right lessons from the crisis, the right lessons from the lehman collapse, based on a corporate culture driven by greed and short-term profit; a corporate culture that has caused and continues to cause tremendous damage. but corporations are not aliens, they are not martian men moving in a vacuum. no, they're part of society. that's why we need fair and sustainable corporate governance rules. the bodu report is not suitable for this. it is of central importance - and i quote the commission itself - that european companies should exercise the greatest possible responsibility, both towards their employees and towards their shareholders and towards society as a whole. this is also the basis for the alternative motion for a resolution tabled by the s&d group and the green group. we need clear, binding corporate governance rules and sanctions. self-regulation and the 'comply or explain' principle have failed miserably. self-regulation was and is either marketing or good-intentioned in corporate governance. and good intentions are often wrong. the involvement of not only the shareholders but also other stakeholders is important for the sustainable success of the company. i am thinking here of the inclusion of employees and their representatives in the boards, in the administrative and supervisory councils. they are interested in the long-term success of the company, and that is what it is all about: achieving long-term success. it is also important to ensure transparency by fully disclosing managerial salaries and to extend the scope to all listed companies. i would also like to refer to the particularly passionate debate on the proportion of women. the commission, commissioner reding, is calling for the women's quota with great credibility. and this house, the european parliament, has done so many times. of course, the issue of the mandatory quota for women is very, very important in the context of corporate governance rules.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i'm not going to tell you. i am not going to go into detail. in fact, the approach of this corporate governance framework was a very important and good one, and we could have reacted very strongly to the symptoms of the crisis here and also done some work on the possible causes. unfortunately, this report does not include this to the extent we would have liked. because -- my predecessor mentioned this -- there were really different approaches here. on the one hand, there was the approach of being able to bring in something like social responsibility and long-term thinking - not just thinking in short-term profit margins, in boards, in shareholder meetings. it was about answering the question: responsibility, yes, but to whom? is it a narrow view of responsibility, limited to the pursuit of short-term profit and to the orientation of all business activity towards it? or do we not have an obligation to go one step further here? we have not created this structure for nothing, but it serves the purpose of introducing other aspects, so to speak: whether it is the participation of the workers, whether it is thinking in the longer term, whether it is taking into account aspects other than short-term profit. we want not only fine explanations, nice homepages, which point out social responsibility, but also possibilities for sanctions. it's the only way. the same applies to the women's quota. i want to make this clear once again: unfortunately, nothing has ever moved for women in this world by itself.
they are still present today and in the majority.
thank you very much, madam president. the last speaker to be announced before the 'catch the eye' procedure is a new member who is completing her second plenary session today: mrs costello.
thank you very much, madam president. i wish you success and good luck in your work in this house. catch the eye
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 29 march, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions under rule 150 of the rules of procedure.
this item is closed.
in writing. poverty reduction is an important objective of european policy for the current decade. the european union has committed itself to significantly reducing the level of poverty by 2020 through better coordination of existing policies and through concrete target agreements. amongst a number of other measures, the eu's 'free food' programme has become an important instrument in the fight against poverty. in a field which is actually the responsibility of the member states, the use of agricultural funds has helped people who would otherwise have been left empty-handed. this important aid, which has directly benefited those concerned and has thus also helped many people to understand the importance of the european project, is now set to fail because of competence disputes and the reluctance of some member states. this failure would not only lead to a serious deterioration in the situation of the population threatened by poverty and exclusion, but would also contribute to a further loss of credibility in europe. the commission is therefore invited to look for appropriate ways of continuing this programme.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am a committed citizen of the republic of austria. i am also a committed citizen of the european union. i therefore expressly welcome the commission's report on citizenship of the union 2010 and the report of the committee on petitions based on it, because this project has not, fortunately, failed but has identified areas for improvement. this is a very commendable insight. it was recognised that it was not enough to write civil rights on a piece of paper, but that at the same time care must be taken to ensure that they are poured into appropriate laws and then implemented in a citizen-friendly and as unbureaucratic as possible manner. three examples: how can citizens fully exercise their right to free movement if there is still uncertainty about the maintenance and acquisition of social security rights? how can the european higher education area be realised with the right to free access to education if students have problems in the recognition of university degrees and study periods? how can citizens be convinced of their rights to crossborder healthcare if reimbursement is still often too late, incomplete and too bureaucratic? i therefore call on the commission to put these findings into practice. then the 2013 european year of citizens' rights will have tangible and tangible benefits for citizens.
madam president, first i should like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for the very good and constructive cooperation on a report that strongly supports the european perspective for kosovo. i should like to make one remark and one request. the remark is that two months have passed since the report was voted on in the committee on foreign affairs in january and many things have happened in and around kosovo, for example the positive outcome of the dialogue between pristina and belgrade, and the council conclusions which paved the way for a further european perspective and integration for kosovo. that is why i tabled about 11 amendments which refer to these events and i would like to ask you to support them. i have one request for the s&d group, which refers to the first amendment that we are going to vote on now – amendment 13 – which also refers to the outcome of the dialogue. i believe that placing this amendment right at the beginning is not right. i think it should go under paragraph 2, which refers to the dialogue and i would like to ask the s&d group rapporteur to accept this repositioning to a different place. if the s&d group does not accept that, i would ask members to vote against it because the issues are covered in paragraph 2.
i think that the amendment is already in the text, so i thought i should not mention it. the point is to include the current events of the last two or three days in the report. the text shall now read as follows: welcomes the commission's intention to launch a feasibility study for the stabilisation and association agreement between kosovo and the eu, as noted in the general affairs council conclusions of 28 february 2012, and welcomes in particular the official launch of that study by commissioner füle on 27 march 2012 during the first meeting of kosovo's national council for european integration, and hopes that it can be completed at the latest in autumn 2012;
in writing. − in principle, the eu has strengthened travellers' rights in recent years. although there are regulations for air travellers, the question of whether airlines must compensate their guests for long delays in a lump sum is still controversial. the european court of justice is also considering a case on this matter. airlines refuse to pay compensation in the event of 'extraordinary circumstances', citing an international obligation to provide hotel and meals to passengers in the event of delays, but not to pay compensation. the question whether an airline is obliged to compensate passengers who miss their connecting flight because of a delay is also controversial. it is therefore important that the eu address this issue once again, although there are still some unresolved issues, such as the strict safety rules. i have taken this into account in my voting behaviour.
in writing. − passengers’ rights are touched upon in many different eu laws, and this report also looks at the broader context of air passengers’ rights at a european level. the rapporteur identifies the need for enhanced legal certainty, for more interpretative clarity and for uniform application of the regulations across the eu. greater accountability and transparency are needed in order to clarify and strengthen existing rights and to ensure they are made clear to consumers. therefore i voted in favour of the report. its adoption will improve passengers’ rights.
in writing. − the european refugee fund (erf) was established by the european commission for the period 2008-2013. the total amount of the loan is eur 628 million. it also supports the resettlement of refugees from third countries. 'resettlement' means the process whereby third-country nationals or stateless persons are transferred from a third country to a member state, at the request of the unhcr, based on their need for international protection, where they are allowed to stay: (a) in refugee status; or (b) in a status which confers the same rights and benefits as refugee status under national and union law; the report did not receive my vote because there is a risk that the proposed changes to resettlement could make european countries even more attractive to migrants and a mass influx could be expected.
in writing. - the european union is investing heavily in image campaigns designed to make the benefits of the union more palatable to the citizen. any smart businessman knows that good products don't need advertising. the eu's mistake is also implicitly clear in the issue of "expanding the resettlement programme": the discrepancy between the reality of life, at least for the citizens of the older eu states, and the pathological transformation rage of many eurocrats. despite the massive integration problems facing immigrants from completely foreign cultures, resettlement programmes are to be expanded and given even more resources. the fact that refugees are being brought into the eu from safe third countries is not a sign of solidarity but of stupidity! effective aid would be to provide financial and structural support to third countries hosting refugees and to promote peace-building, democracy-building and humanitarian projects, especially in crisis regions. the crazy idea that the eu can provide a warm place for every needy person in the world is self-defeating. sustainable aid can only be provided on the ground. the idea of refugee assistance is being reduced to the absurdity of the definition of permanently persecuted groups and the concept of resettlement. if you have to leave your home because of the horrors of war, you should be able to find refuge in a safe country. but this cannot mean permanent resettlement with a guarantee of prosperity. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. - the extension of the provisions on financial instruments is urgently needed, especially in the context of the ongoing economic and financial crisis. in particular, it is important to make otc derivatives trading more transparent in order to minimise systemic risk in this area. otc trading should therefore only be conducted through ccps subject to strict capital requirements. furthermore, mandatory reporting to central counterparties is required to ensure a sufficient level of transparency.
in writing. − common european minimum standards for exposure to electromagnetic fields are designed to protect the working population. the primary criterion for assessing the protection of persons is the effect of electromagnetic radiation on the human body. since health is the most important asset of our society, it is advisable to take care to protect workers even in workplaces exposed to high levels of radiation. i voted for the report because i believe that the directive has brought and will bring benefits to both the employers and the workers concerned.
in writing. − following the entry into force in 2004 of directive 2004/40/ec, which aims to establish minimum requirements for the protection of workers from electromagnetic fields, there was a strong concern from stakeholders. in order to develop a long-term solution based on needs and technical possibilities and to avoid violations of the deadline by states which have not yet transposed the amended directive, an extension of the deadline is necessary. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. − eurostat currently forecasts an inflation rate of 2.7% for this year - compared to which the ep's budgetary forecast for 2013 can be considered reasonable. however, it must be borne in mind that the reduction in appropriations for maintenance, language services or other services will in the medium term reduce the substance, efficiency and quality of parliamentary work and infrastructure - too much investment must not lead to disproportionately higher costs in the future. the single seat question was clearly voted on by an overwhelming majority (429 to 184 with 37 abstentions). the ep's statement is a step in the right direction to save more than 200 million euros. i agreed to the report.
in writing. − the egf has an annual budget of eur 500 million and is designed to help workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. it is estimated that between 35,000 and 50,000 workers could benefit from this every year. the money will be used to support measures to help people find work, individual training, self-employment and business creation, mobility grants and aid for disadvantaged or older workers. the first request for 2012 was made for spain at eur 1 642 030, as a total of 1138 redundancies from 513 companies have to be addressed. i voted for the report because the fund is designed for such cases and it makes sense to use it to support the economy.
in writing. - the economic crisis is having a particularly strong impact in spain. the construction industry is particularly affected, with all its subcontractors. this leads to enormous unemployment. the unemployment rate in the comunidad valenciana increased by 309% between 2007, the year before the crisis, and 2010. in such cases, the egf should help to facilitate the return to work of workers who have become unemployed as a result of the crisis and to cushion the social hardship. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. − this application to mobilise the egf shows the direct impact of the speculative bubble on the spanish construction market. unbridled financial market lending and risky speculation in ever-rising property prices have led to the collapse of the entire national market. as a result, countless small and medium-sized construction companies and suppliers went bankrupt, with the result that the construction workers employed lost their jobs. these people who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own need this support. i agreed to the report.
in writing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is true, of course, that the human rights situation is unfortunately not exemplary. the european union has committed itself to respecting human rights. the way in which the opposition and its leaders are being treated is, of course, to be condemned. nevertheless, the eu is once again playing the moral card with one country, but forgetting to do so with other countries. the eu follows the us in its arguments and sometimes calls for the cancellation of the ice hockey world cup, but forgets that the us is the one that is completely at the mercy of international law. in other countries, human rights violations are only noted, if at all, as in turkey. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia.
in writing. − non-respect of political opposition goes far away from the common and fundamental principles and values of the european community. belarus has illegally detained any opponents or artists who criticised the work of the government. this cannot be borne by the eu and the international institutions. the ep urges that solutions be found to free the political victims of persecution imprisoned in belarusian jails without a fair trial. it also stresses the importance of obliging this country to respect human rights and different kinds of freedoms. even if the joint motion aims to improve eu-belarus relations, the ep cannot allow belarus to host the next world ice hockey championship until it installs a democratic government. as belarus is of crucial importance for the eu, being a neighbouring country, i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. − it should be clear that the eu is not the only option for serbia and that the long-established link with russia is all too easily remembered. the crisis in the european union and the fear of further blackmail on the kosovo issue are keeping serbs' enthusiasm for candidate status at a reasonable level. the eu must finally take seriously the fears of the serbs of kosovo on the kosovo question of being pushed to the wall by the oppressive albanian majority. serbia is not only a thoroughly european country in cultural, historical and geographical terms, but it has also shown over the past year that it is willing and able to gradually meet the criteria required by the eu. that is why i voted in favour of the report. the eu has a long and difficult road ahead of it, but it is in europe's and the eu's interest to integrate this important country into the community of states and thus ensure stability in the balkans.
in writing. - the artistic state of kosovo, created under pressure from the americans, is a threat to stability in the balkans and would not be viable without generous financial support from brussels. the situation in the balkans shows the failure of the dreams of multicultural ideologues and fantasy-makers. the eu's insistence on 'multiethnic' states in the balkans has proved to be a dead end for the countries concerned. billions of euros have been invested in this without any significant success. this region, which has declared its independence in breach of un resolution 1244, in violation of international law, and which is not recognised by five eu countries, cannot in its present form become a member of the eu, which is why i strongly reject the report.
in writing. - turkey is not making satisfactory progress in the area of fundamental rights, freedom of expression and freedom of the media. i also see great shortcomings in the area of religious freedom. there is no further progress in respect of women's rights and gender equality. my summary of the candidate country turkey is clear - turkey is disqualifying itself again and again in its unambiguous attitude towards the european union - and this is particularly true of cyprus, which will hold the next presidency of the council. i doubt that the cyprus conflict, which has been going on for decades, can be solved so easily, despite the eu's best efforts and the immense financial pre-accession aid that the eu is paying to turkey. turkey, or the turkish mentality, will never become part of the european union! turkey is clearly showing that it does not want to meet european standards and values and no substantial change in attitude is to be expected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. − turkey has repeatedly demonstrated that it is not eu-ready and that the different values will probably never reach the necessary eu-ready level, apart from the fact that this would be far beyond the much-cited capacity of the european union, it is necessary to focus more on the integration of states such as serbia or montenegro and to redistribute the funds allocated to turkey from the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) accordingly. of course, both serbia and montenegro have a long way to go. although montenegro is in principle a thoroughly european country by cultural, historical and geographical standards and has shown its willingness to gradually meet the criteria required by the eu over the past year, montenegro still has a long way to go. i have taken this into account in my voting behaviour.
in writing. − in this report parliament welcomes the role of the eib in supporting the development of the european economy and fostering growth, stimulating employment, and promoting social and territorial cohesion. it also gives advice on fields on which it should focus in the future, such as promoting sustainable, renewable projects, and regarding promotion of the union’s objectives and the europe 2020 strategy’s targets, and outside the eu, with regard to its mandate and the overall policy coherence of the eu’s external action.
in writing. − citizenship of the union establishes a legal relationship between the citizen and the union, which includes rights and obligations. these rights include freedom of movement, non-discrimination, the right to vote in local elections, the right to vote in the european parliament, diplomatic and consular protection, the right to petition and to lodge a complaint, and the right to communicate with the eu in one of the official languages of the european union and to receive a reply in the same language. the 'union citizenship report 2010' has shown that citizens of the european union are above all exercising their right to free movement. this means that every citizen of the union has the fundamental right to move freely within the european union, to enter and reside in any other member state. however, this right of residence may be restricted in order to safeguard the legitimate interests of the member states. i did not vote for the report because i believe that national rules, especially those concerning the residence permit of third-country nationals, should not be overridden by a transposed union law.
in writing. − the report highlights eu citizens’ need for free movement, when we want to legally recognise the concept of union citizenship. right to petition, right to access to documents, right to an ease in movement of children with separated parents coming from different nations, and the real necessity for the eci regulation and the eu charter of fundamental rights to be enforced are the main points of this report. the eu urges the member states to find new solutions to eliminate any remaining administrative and legal obstacles in the single market. our citizens need answers from the eu institutions and user-friendly and comprehensible barrier-free technologies will help them to communicate with the eu administrative apparatus. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the lulling report is a very important and good report, but in the present situation it is in danger of being misunderstood. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this context, there is certainly a particular fear in some countries that this is a report which amounts to making the motor vehicle sector, particularly diesel, more expensive, right now, in a situation where the fuel price is already extremely high. it is true that the report states that this is not for today but for a later date, and there is also a wording, which is a little too vague, that the price increases for diesel can be compensated for. i think it would be in the interests of mrs lulling and of our common environmental awareness and our common environmental orientation to postpone this report and to reconsider how to clarify the matter of diesel in particular, so i am putting this motion here. i understand that mrs lulling is sceptical. but it would be in their interest, in the interest of their report, if we could clarify this again in a formulation which we can then put before this parliament at a later date.
madam president, i would like to thank lady ashton for the comments she has made today on the report. i would also like to thank my colleague mr howitt for a very good report. let me refer to one issue that i am glad the committee accepted as an amendment, namely the need to set up civil society consultation mechanisms for all our instruments. i would like to speak specifically about the two amendments that some of us are going to table again for the vote tomorrow. these are amendments 7 and 8 on the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. as an openly lesbian woman myself, i have seen so many such women around the world who are afraid, who cannot come out to their families, who cannot be open in school, in society or at work. i would urge epp members and others in this parliament who voted against the part that was already in the report to vote in favour of these amendments, because the issue at stake is our common human rights. it is about the european charter of fundamental rights – which i hope all of you subscribe to – which makes clear that discrimination is not part of what we should have in the european union. so please vote in favour of that, and support all that the external action service – with the toolkit, lady ashton and others – is doing in order to make it possible for lgbt people to live without fear in this world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. according to media reports, syria has an arsenal of 2,500 missiles, some of which are armed with poison gas, which can reach almost any point in europe due to their range. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the union must therefore give top priority to stabilising the situation. the aim is to bring peace to the region, to establish a democratic, moderate regime which also respects the rights of minorities, especially christians, armenians and kurds. we must also make turkey pay. ankara has to ensure that migrants do not illegally cross turkey into europe. turkey can indeed prove here whether it is capable of cooperation or whether it is using the conflict to assert its geopolitical power interests in the region. but one thing is clear: with turkey as an accession country, we are bringing the middle east, the centre of the crisis, right into our own home, in the middle of europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the government and the opposition are known to blame each other for the breakdown of the ceasefire and it is likely that there have been human rights violations on both sides. but the implementation of the six-point plan is undoubtedly a difficult undertaking. whether the un inspectors can now really do their job and whether they will succeed in bringing the government and the opposition to the table, or whether they will fail in their deception and containment tactics as well as the arab league observer mission, will undoubtedly have to be seen in the coming days. if the mission does not bring the desired success, it is important to increase the pressure. but i think that direct intervention, as the opposition is calling for, for example in the form of a no-fly zone, should be critically reconsidered. the eu must, in any case, step up its planning for a post-assad syria, and in particular we must avoid the mistakes we made in the case of libya and egypt.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the one hand, not all political prisoners have been released, and on the other hand, the arrival of the opposition leader does not change the serious human rights crimes committed during the regime. her electrifying victory and the frenzied enthusiasm of her supporters are likely to cause resentment among many military supporters. so much will depend on whether the agreed gradual and joint transition processes go as planned, what is done to overcome the past and whether economic opening actually accompanies the political change. although burma's path to a functioning democracy will undoubtedly be a long one, the signals so far are of course positive and should be fully appreciated by the west and the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but i do not think that should apply to the arms embargo. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. nobel laureate aung san suu kyi won 43 of the 45 seats in the by-election. but in all this jubilation, we must not forget that the military continues to dominate. the second round of elections was only about 7% of the total number of seats. the current constitution guarantees the military supremacy. the president must be from the ranks of the armed forces, the ministries of interior, defense and border protection are reserved for the military. since 2010, burma has been giving itself a civilian face. but it is still a long way to go before we have real democracy. so trade relations still need to be very careful; we must maintain arms embargoes and ban entry to countries of human rights violators. anyway, a big trial is starting in burma. cameron has already been there, high representative ashton has not. the eu is not a good image for a country that is desperate to establish itself as a global player!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been active in the field of the environment since the beginning of the year. the 'more for more' incentive is certainly right and important in giving our eastern partner countries the incentive to reform and make the necessary changes. this is of course particularly true for the countries bordering the black sea. the eu can help and be a driver of reform in a wide range of areas. the black sea region will undoubtedly become more important in the coming years, not least because of the energy question. the union should adopt a prudent and sustainable approach in order to ensure that the interests of all stakeholders are taken into account in the best possible way. the same applies to the question of the construction of new oil and gas pipelines, where a greater diversification of the union's supply would be appropriate, but new dependencies, for example with turkey, should be avoided. politically, the rapprochement of various black sea countries, such as ukraine, with the eu is welcome, although in this case we should take account of russia's legitimate interests in the region - where they are legitimate - in order not to jeopardise this partnership.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i welcome the effort to give new impetus to the black sea strategy. i am also grateful for the honest assessment of the status quo, namely that we are not allowed to just pat each other on the shoulder! the countries of the black sea region are becoming increasingly important because of their geographical proximity, the dynamic development of their sales and labour potential and their energy resources. the danube, the european river, flows into the black sea. it is important that we contribute to cooperation between the countries of the black sea region and not play one country against the other. it is important that we coordinate the activities of the member states in the region and not that each one plays its own game. the european council in strasbourg has decided to set up a european energy policy. key words are diversification, interconnectivity and security of supply. the main focus is on the nabucco gas pipeline diversification project, but also on alternative or competing projects such as south stream. the region between the black sea and the caspian sea, at the crossroads of europe, the middle east and central asia, is also marked by open and frozen conflicts. it is therefore not just about the economy and energy, but also about security and stability. i welcome the offensive to approach this region with a stronger, more focused and more professional approach!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, let me first of all thank the rapporteurs and other colleagues for the difficult but ultimately successful negotiations. first of all, armenia has made progress in democratisation, media freedom and human rights following the problems in the aftermath of the 2008 elections. however, we would expect the armenians to make gestures on giving back the surrounding occupied territories, regardless of the ongoing negotiations with nagorno-karabakh. that would be an important step forward. i am glad that we agreed in the report to criticise both countries for the military build-up that is going on, as well as to urge both countries to sign and ratify the conventions against landmines and cluster munitions. i am especially glad that five major groups in this house have succeeded in including a reference in tomorrow’s vote to evictions and house demolitions, some of which are occurring in relation to the upcoming eurovision song contest in baku at the end of may. i am also glad that this parliament is expressing its support for human rights activists who want to use the eurovision song contest to improve human rights and the democratic record in azerbaijan. as mrs jäätteenmäki has already mentioned, we were informed today that the azeri police had tried to enter the flat of the human rights activist leyla yunus today without a search warrant. this comes just one day after the president of azerbaijan talked about the slanderous statements made by some citizen instigators. i think that, as mrs jäätteenmäki said, it is vital that economic development, respect for human rights and freedom of the media and civil society go hand in hand.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. the new regulation provides clarity for all stakeholders, i.e. businesses, insurers and above all the citizens concerned. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. it is socially fairer, it does not create additional costs, but it does bring more social security, transparency and clarity to the citizen. two aspects seem to me particularly important. firstly, the definition of the concept of 'substantial' in article 13 (1) is now clear. secondly, the precise definition of the concept of 'home base'. this is particularly important for airline flight attendants, for example. the aim was to achieve the desired legal certainty for the companies concerned, predictability for employees and prevention of social dumping. i thank the rapporteur.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. globalisation is creating new forms of mobility. i am thinking of air transport, where companies offer their services from so-called home bases in different eu countries. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to provide for the possibility of a national pension scheme for the benefit of foreign nationals. as in a case in austria, where the european court of human rights ordered austria to pay emergency aid to a french citizen in austria. the ecthr, in an incomprehensible way, subsumed the right to emergency and social assistance under the right to property. this is an invitation to a new kind of social tourism within europe, to go where the highest levels of social benefits are to be expected.
in writing. if you normally work in several european member states, you should be covered by social security wherever you have your main place of residence. the new regulation on the coordination of social security systems is designed to fill existing gaps and to take account of changes in national legislation. the new rules are particularly important for flight attendants and selfemployed border crossers. the social security system is and will of course remain a matter for the individual member states. but we are also making sure that these systems remain applicable and fair to those people who work in several eu countries because of increased mobility. it should not be decisive where the registered office of the company is, it is decisive for social security the "home base", i.e. the centre of life from which departure usually takes place. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. we're gonna put a stop to that. this is a new regulation of the european internal market which does not allow dumping of social security systems and provides for a higher level of legal certainty. we have thus moved closer to a more social europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am following the case law of the european court of justice closely. in the past, the court of justice has progressively undermined some national control measures and declared them incompatible with the freedom to provide services. the new implementing directive now lays down control measures that member states are not allowed to exceed. minimum requirements become maximum requirements. i will give just two examples. the translation of documents should be carried out only if they are not excessively long or member states must ensure that the formalities are as easy as possible for the companies of dispatch to complete. austria has introduced a very efficient, very good law to combat wage and social dumping. are measures which are actually effective in combating wage and social dumping now being jeopardised by the new enforcement directive which is well-intentioned but may be well-intentioned and not really good?
i would like to ask you a practical question and give you a concrete example of where the control authorities are reaching their limits. there are cases where the declared wage is equal to 40 hours of work. in fact, posted workers work 50-60 hours or more. this is not unusual, because posted construction workers in particular have relatively little interest in leisure time during the posting and would like to work their working time en bloc if possible. this means that actual working hours are difficult to control. do you have any suggestions on how this could be improved?
i have to say, madam president, i voted against this report simply because it misses an aspect which mr silvestris has already brought up in the debate. on the one hand, the protection of the fundamental right to life - from natural conception to natural death - is almost completely absent from such a fundamental report on human rights. on the other hand, the report also misses the point of the fundamental right to freedom of religious expression, particularly where it is threatened for christians. the most fundamental right that europe has developed is the recognition of the right to life. and this right to life begins with natural conception and ends with natural death. a man has a right to be in the world in between. and this fundamental right is not even mentioned in the report. i think that mr silvestris touched on a very sensitive point yesterday. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. that is why i voted against this report.
i have to say, madam president, mr hannan, i have to ask you a question. we cannot sacrifice morality for the sake of energy security. i voted for this report by mr poręba because i am in principle in favour of the association agreement. but i have reservations, especially when one assumes that the armenians will have to withdraw unilaterally from nagorno-karabakh. the result would be to leave the armenian majority population in nagorno-karabakh defenseless. and this in the light of the historical guilt which europe actually bears. europe witnessed in 1915 the first organized genocide perpetrated by a state against a people, the armenian people. and against this background, the principle of self-determination, the fundamental right to self-determination, must be given a higher priority than the interests of the azerbaijanis in territorial integrity. i am therefore in favour of a much more sensitive approach to this issue and a much stronger recognition of europe's debt to the armenian people, who were abandoned by the whole of europe in 1915. i therefore appeal to the european parliament not to impose unreasonable conditions on the armenians.
in writing. − social security can be defined as any social protection system established by law or other binding regulation which provides a certain level of income security to individuals facing risks such as old age, survivorship, incapacity for work, disability, unemployment or childcare. it can also provide access to medical treatment or prevention. social security, as defined by the international social security association, includes social insurance schemes, social assistance programmes, universal schemes, mutual aid schemes, national pension funds and other forms, including market-oriented concepts, which are part of a country's social security system according to national legislation or practice. since 1 may 2010, regulations (ec) no 883/2004 and 987/2009 on the coordination of social security systems have been applicable in all eu member states. in order to ensure adequate coordination of national social security systems at eu level, this regulation should be adapted. i have abstained because the report does not make it clear what improvement could be achieved by amending the regulation.
in writing. - globalisation is creating new forms of mobility. i am thinking of air transport, where companies offer their services from so-called home bases in different eu countries. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report does not clearly define what concrete improvements can be expected from an amendment to the regulation, so i have abstained.
in writing. − the modernised social security regulations resulting especially from the increase in negotiations between member states are of high importance to the european union and its citizens and therefore this report has to be supported, which i did by my vote in favour. the need for modernisation came, among other things, from changes in national legislation and from the case law of the court of justice of the european union. member states frequently amend their national social security legislation. as a consequence, the references made to national legislation in eu legislation coordinating social security systems can become outdated; this will create legal uncertainty for stakeholders when applying the regulations. the references in the regulations therefore need to be updated so that they correctly reflect legal changes at national level and changes in social reality.
in writing. - south-east asia is a market of the future. the aim of promoting peace, stability and cooperation with this continent is a good idea. i hope that in the future we will hear a lot of positive things about the stronger economic interconnection between the eu and south east asia. for example, formula 1 is also represented in southeast asia and is satisfied with this market. this shows that there is a will in this area to open up and make itself heard in the world. the vote in the committee responsible is a clear indication that this treaty is desirable and that it is being welcomed. the treaty of friendship and cooperation in south-east asia is therefore welcome and i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − the eu's treaty with south-east asia aims to promote peace, stability and cooperation and to demonstrate an increased eu economic commitment to this future market. the voting ratio in the committee responsible clearly shows that the eu is committed to continuing to pursue the objectives intensively towards south east asia. the aim is to strengthen the economic presence, promote stability, promote the economic development of the poorer regions, and promote the development and consolidation of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. i too welcome the treaty, and i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. − the treaty of amity and cooperation in southeast asia is very important for the economic and political cooperation between southeast asia and the eu, including the asean member states. it would strengthen their trade partnership and improve their diplomatic relations as a whole. therefore, i voted in favour of it and i underline the necessity of new partnerships in this period of economic crisis and recession.
in writing. − the heads of state or government of the 27 eu member states agreed that the concerns of the irish people expressed in the context of the amendment of the lisbon treaty will be taken into account by a protocol annexed to the treaty. this concerns issues of the right to life, education and family, taxation, security and defence. they agreed to this at the european council meeting of 19 june 2009, so that the issue has already been clarified at political level. it is therefore not necessary to convene a special convention on this subject. i therefore vote in favour of this report. i believe that a convention on the treaty of lisbon should have been convened, as was the case with the proposed constitution for europe, but this question has not been the subject of this report.
in writing. - i can support the european council's proposal not to convene a convention to discuss ireland's concerns about the lisbon treaty. it is not necessary in this case, because the heads of state or government have already reached agreement in the european council and a political solution has therefore already been reached. that's why i agreed.
in writing. − the heads of state or government of the 27 eu member states have agreed that the concerns of the irish people expressed in the context of the amendment of the lisbon treaty will be taken into account by a protocol annexed to the treaty. this concerns issues of the right to life, education and family, taxation, security and defence. there is no objection to that, which is why i am in favour of the annexation of the minutes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this concerns, for example, the fact that it is stated that tax matters are not affected by the treaty of lisbon, but then it is said that a reinforced coordination of economic policies in the union is not excluded. but this is a clear, unconstitutional interference with the budgetary sovereignty of the states, which i reject. i have therefore not been able to agree to the report, although i accept the irish's derogations.
in writing. − after signing the accession treaty with croatia, the european parliament asks for the political commitments adopted by the european council to be respected, including the guarantees given to ireland through the addition of a protocol to the treaties, while pointing out that this protocol only concerns this country. i voted in favour of this report because its purpose is to revise the treaties with respect to the inclusion of a protocol on the concerns of the irish people on the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - the term 'outermost regions' is used to describe those regions which, because of their particular social and economic situation, such as their remoteness or their economic dependence on a few products, are subject to a particular type of exclusion. specific measures and benefits have been adopted for them, which constitute exceptions to the provisions of european law which are otherwise applicable. despite these exceptions, these areas are fully-fledged parts of the eu territory. i voted in favour of the report because it seeks to ensure that the eu's outermost regions receive special support.
in writing. − the outermost regions are particularly affected by the deterioration of the economic situation due to the economic, social and financial crisis. this highlights the structural weaknesses of their economies and it is now particularly important that european investment in these outermost regions is seen as an investment in the interests and for the benefit of the european union as a whole. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. − this motion for a resolution values the cohesion policy in the outermost regions of the european union to make it possible to achieve the goals of the 2020-strategy there. it is important to take into account their specific characteristics and it is necessary to foster their strong points and strengthen their weaknesses. that is why i supported this report with my vote. to get the best integration of these regions in the eu, the adoption of particular measures and funds available for these areas is of crucial importance. unfortunately, the prevision for the period 2014-2020 is that these funds will be reduced.
in writing. − the eu commits itself in the founding treaties to be guided in its action at international level by principles such as human and minority rights. the european union is too fond of pointing the moral finger at other countries, and even in the eu things are not going well. prominent examples include the cia's secret prisons and overseas flights. there is also a lot of work to be done in many eu countries on minorities. the european union has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. the report by mr howitt is also a work which is completely overloaded with left-wing ideology and humanitarian rhetoric. for example, they are very concerned about the rights of gays and transgender people in developing countries, and they ignore the need to ensure minimum standards of human rights there. on the whole, this report does not make a good statement about the eu, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. − the relations between the eu and azerbaijan are becoming increasingly important as azerbaijan improves economically and politically. the main points of this cooperation are the stability and democratic development of this central asian area and consequently of euronest, which is highly influenced by, and involved in, economic and political cooperation with the eu. the ep welcomes the association agreement as it fosters cooperation between the eu and azerbaijan. the eu would have more access to azerbaijan in terms of assessing and monitoring cases involving human rights and fundamental freedoms, which are not fully respected in azerbaijan. in addition to this, it would help the asian country to make commitments related to the nagorno-karabakh conflict and the respect of political opponents and refugees.
in writing. − armenia is a prominent area for the peaceful cohabitation of central asian peoples. its position in the south caucasus enables it to be at the centre of the strategic dialogue on the crisis in georgia, south caucasus and nagorno-karabakh. the eu therefore stresses the importance of an association agreement with armenia. close cooperation between the eu and armenia could be an effective tool to solve the nagorno-karabakh conflict and develop stability and peace in this area bordering azerbaijan. furthermore, it would represent an additional way to call on armenia to stop the illegal activities carried out by armenian troops in the occupied azerbaijani territories, namely regular military manoeuvres, the renewal of military hardware and personnel and the deepening of defensive echelons.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not perhaps the french conservatives already need the comradeship of georges marchais to win the elections. but that's another question. i have listened to you very carefully, mr barroso. i can underline a lot of what you said. i wonder, however, whether this is the reality of the commission's activities. i am sorry to have to go back to that, but what is required, for example, in the framework of the troika is still too short a deadline for balanced budgets. what will you say to mr rajoy when he rightly points out that he cannot do that? what do you say to mrs lagarde, what do you say to mr zoellick, that there is a far too narrow and short-sighted policy of budgetary consolidation? the commission continues to call for more flexibility and less certainty in many countries. that is a misconception of flexicurity, less security and more flexibility. and they still think they can solve things by putting trade unions and workers in the box and not holding them accountable. we want a real growth strategy. but, mr president barroso, if you say that subsidiarity is what it is, then there is subsidiarity in the budget too. you can't solve the budget problems either. but you insist that we have common legislation. why is employment policy only a matter of statements, wishes and requests? and when it comes to the budget, we have strict laws, obligations, sanctions. this is an imbalance which we cannot accept. we need a real growth policy. that is our demand. and if mr sarkozy is going to say to the challenger, françois hollande, 'it is not enough to create the growth engine in a treaty to get it', why does he need a treaty on fiscal union? and why has he not already made a growth policy? it is quite possible. i prefer to trust the financial times, which says 'it is encouraging that an increasing number of politicians, including françois hollande, the french presidential hopeful candidate, are calling for a european growth strategy'. the financial times is more progressive than sarkozy in terms of growth, and that is another proof. i have also mentioned what mr zoellick said recently and what mrs lagarde said yesterday at the presentation. we are asking a lot of the imf. we are not prepared to pursue a policy in which the imf can give us the support we need. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency. so if you propose an employment package, if you propose a growth strategy which we can support, then you must also tell your colleagues who go to the countries and look at the budgetary policy there that they too have a budgetary policy which allows growth. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the budgetary procedure. that's the only chance to really grow. unfortunately, mr draghi is not here, but that is also connected with the ecb. because much of what the ecb does, it actually does without having the support of the politicians. although the european central bank is also called upon to support the general economic policy of the eu. this is something that many who criticize the ecb overlook. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. i have no objection to changing the statute as mr sarkozy proposes. but we should have a growth policy which corresponds to what the ecb is trying to achieve as an auxiliary structure. i do not deny, mr president, that there are some positive proposals. you've gone too far with the financial transaction tax. we are still waiting for the council, mr daul, and for our colleagues in the governments, who are still very hesitant. they have now presented an employment package. there are many approaches. some things are too ambiguous for us, some things are not expressed clearly enough. but if you read the statistics carefully, you will see that the countries that are successful are not successful because they have reduced social security and the influence of the trade unions, but on the contrary. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. that's not a growth concept. i support what you said about the european capital markets, that we can borrow money. i very much agree with what you said about the european investment bank, which can do more. and yet the problem remains that we are doing too little to combat unemployment, especially youth unemployment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. how can we save political democracy in europe when we have so many people, so many young people, unemployed, resigning, which ultimately also leads them to vote for extremist parties, when you despair of this europe, despair of democracy in europe. this is the great challenge we face. and again, to quote zoellick: "show people who want to work that you want them to work". that's our job, that's what we have to do. otherwise, i'm afraid we're going to be following a course of the titanic. if we are to avoid a titanic-like course economically, politically and socially, then it is absolutely necessary to translate what is in the employment package into concrete legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre)
in writing. much has been done to combat the economic crisis in the euro area, to mention just two examples: the six pack and, more recently, the two pack that is on its way. sustainable growth is only possible through sound employment policies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. we must act quickly and concretely. let's invest in sound education and training! where are the 2020 targets? let us not talk for long, but act quickly and concretely! europe needs promising actions! we can achieve these goals by 'clean' fiscal consolidation on the one hand and sustainable growth on the other.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fight against tax evasion and fraud is of great importance, given that tax fraud amounts to €1 trillion in the budgets of the eu member states. this is money that can and must be invested in the public sector for growth and jobs, so as to take an active step forward on the way out of the crisis. greater transparency between member states and, in particular, closer cooperation, taking into account article 65 tfeu, are required.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank the honourable members and mrs astrid lulling for the report and for the speedy and thorough treatment of this proposal. its main purposes are to meet the eu’s priority goals of combating climate change, improving energy efficiency, stimulating renewable energy sources and ensuring fair competition within the internal market. to achieve this, the proposal bases taxation on objective criteria – co2 emissions and energy content. this will offer many advantages. first, taxation of energy products will be more coherent. second, consumers will receive a consistent price signal to reduce emissions and to save energy. third, double taxation and overlaps with the eu emission trading scheme will be removed. fourth, use of sustainable biofuels and products from biomass will be promoted, since they will be exempt from co2 taxation. last but not least, taxes on polluting activities are a means of shifting taxation away from labour, thereby supporting growth and competiveness. the impact of such far-reaching changes is addressed by providing for transitional periods up to 2023, when appropriate. turning to the amendments, the commission welcomes the support for the main features of its proposal, in particular the introduction of a co2- and energy-related element, a gradual increase of minimum rates by 2018 and the principle of equal taxation of all fuels put to the same use. the commission would insist on keeping the ‘proportionality principle’, which means equal taxation of petrol and diesel. there is no reason to subsidise the use of diesel over the use of petrol. the impact on demand for diesel cars should not be overestimated: the efficiency of conversion technology in current diesel cars is higher than in petrol cars, and it would still remain attractive to purchase diesel cars. moreover, long transitional periods should ensure time to adjust. it is neither the cars of today nor the cars of tomorrow that are at stake. it is the cars of our children or even our grandchildren. i would like to reassure you that many of the amendments accepted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs concern issues which are already covered by the proposal and do not require changes to it. the commission will continue to defend the spirit of those issues in the negotiations in the council. the commission understands the call for longer transitional periods, particularly in terms of respecting the principle of equal taxation, and would support them in the council, as part of an overall compromise. it would insist on keeping automatic indexation in order to keep the agreed level of rate harmonisation intact and to avoid an erosion of member states’ revenue by inflation. the commission could accept an automatic alignment of the minimum co2 tax level to the price of ets allowances, if a legally-sound reference index can be referred to. the commission welcomes the phasing-out of the tax advantage for commercial diesel in order to achieve full internalisation of external costs. the commission does not, however, see the need for a specific transitional period for this. long transitional periods up to 2023 are already provided for and could be extended until 2025 in the context of an overall compromise in the council. as for energy consumption by households, the commission is not now in favour of agreeing on an end date for phasing out optional tax exemptions or reductions. it also feels that it would be premature to remove the exemption for commercial aircraft and shipping fuel now, taking into account the fact that the aviation sector is covered by the eu ets and that developments on tackling emissions in the maritime sector could take place in the near future. both these issues will in any case be reviewed in the regular commission report on the application of the new framework for energy taxation. in conclusion, the commission is open to discuss amendments to its proposal, provided that they do not undermine its main objectives and that they preserve its key principles.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. - mr president, i have to say something. as rapporteur, i worked on the opinion on the taxation of energy sources in the committee on budgets. i would remind you that, in addition to many important points for discussion, the committee on budgets unanimously adopted the opinion after intensive intergroup discussion, the core message of which is that the proceeds of a possible future taxation of energy sources could also be used as shares to form the basis of a future system of own resources for the eu budget. this is a very important point for the european union and should therefore be taken into account in future discussions. in conclusion, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation, as well as mrs lulling as rapporteur for the committee responsible.
question for the commissioner: i have a question for you, mr president. co2 taxation is a good thing! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course brussels is a battlefield! there are no armies there, but interest groups. the automobile industry was mentioned, but the co2 issue was also discussed by the nuclear lobby. and that is where we have a fundamental problem with this report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not based on the principle of the internal market. but that is, of course, completely wrong. because if we actually look at the co2 emissions per unit of energy produced, nuclear power plants are by no means as carbon-friendly as this lobby very specifically portrays it. comparison figures from the upstream and downstream processes of uranium recovery, fuel reprocessing, show that nuclear power plants using uranium from russia produce about 65 grams per kilowatt hour of carbon dioxide, far behind the renewable energies that we all now so much promote, whether that's hydroelectricity or wind farms. if we now agree to this report, we are buying the cat in the bag, and we are buying it consciously. i have tabled an amendment in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy to the effect that emissions from the extraction of fuels used in power stations for energy production, and for the reprocessing of which they are produced, must also be taken into account. this request was rejected. and with this lulling report, from a person who is very clear about the very wide use of nuclear energy, we are steering back to a glorious past instead of a sensible future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say to the commission that this proposal is untimely and shortsighted. i would also like to ask mr lambsdorff, who has been campaigning a little bit here. he now praises the liberal german attitude. but what about his liberal colleagues in other countries? maybe he could clean up his own house. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. but now i must also ask the question to the gentlemen: where is the neutrality of the vote? is it reasonable that we should just introduce new taxes? we can discuss it, but they must also be revenue-neutral, also on environmental taxes. i must also ask the social democrats: now that it is in the media, you suddenly get cold feet and no longer dare to stand up for your arguments. i'm sorry to hear that. i think that we should have a holistic approach when we discuss these matters. and the overall approach means that we do not take the energy content and co2 emissions of fuels in isolation, but we have to look at the overall situation of taxation - for example, of cars - in the member states. mr eickhout said that holland has a small share of diesel. yeah, why? it may be, but we have to look at the admission taxes and the current taxes. we in austria have a very high nova share, a tax on top of the vat, which is based on co2. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and the commission should take this into account. that is why i am a little disappointed that we are now supporting a patchwork carpet, knowing full well that we will not find a majority among the member states. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. mr lange, the point is to clarify what the technologies are like. as an automotive expert, you know that there is a lot of controversy about whether diesel is really the more harmful fuel at a certain distance at a certain engine power. these are the basic questions we should be discussing at the outset. then you must agree with me that we need a comprehensive approach! i am not familiar with this particular econ request. it might have been wise to agree to that. but let's talk about the big picture, and then be fair and tell your constituents that you're for the increase in diesel prices.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a non-european energy minister from a producing country once proposed that we should give europe all its energy if we were willing to share the taxes with him. this is a very important point to make here, and it is important to note that we must also remain competitive in the energy sector. that is why i cannot understand what measures of relief commissioner šemeta has in mind in this proposal, because it is of course a question of relieving the burden on labour and output, if one wants to tax consumption and energy-related things more. but it must be revenue-neutral, and i think that is our main problem, that we have no proposal here on how to relieve the burden on european workers and businesses. on the contrary, i keep hearing suggestions for new variations of the load. if we want to remain competitive, we must offer relief proposals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. this regulation makes cohesion policy a definitive part of the euro rescue umbrella policy. we reject that! it is nothing more than a kind of debt participation, which is supposed to be a kind of mini-eurobond under the heading of cohesion policy. i agree with mrs hübner when she says that the savings packages have not had the desired effect. but that was clear from the start. the european union has been a major player in the world economy for many years. so you can see that now the european union's policy of bailing out the euro in greece is slowly approaching its bankruptcy. the title of this regulation, 'risk-sharing instruments for member states in serious difficulties', is a euphemism and a reduction in the importance of the special category. we're all having problems now. we are all those who have been held accountable and will continue to be held accountable by the esm. this is a matter of states which are in fact facing bankruptcy. we are trying to avoid a state bankruptcy with these mini-instruments. this is bordering on ridiculous. it is not helping the greeks and it is not being helped. it's actually placebos that are being distributed here. the financing of these infrastructure projects or operational programmes means that even a country like greece is already overwhelmed with the need to finance itself, let alone to put together the co-financing which is supposed to be one and a half times as much. how's that supposed to work? it's definitely not gonna work. this is a socialist approach that will fail. we must recognize that greece can only be brought back to economic growth if it gains competitive advantages. the most important competitive advantage it would need at present would be a competitive advantage from its own currency, which would then enable it to boost its own economy and to gain competitive advantages. that's exactly what they're not doing. that is why this policy is fundamentally wrong!
question for the commissioner: i have known you for some time now, mr weber, and i know you in particular as a strong defender of the rule of law, and i think that is quite right. i am surprised at what you and your group are saying in this debate. they are basically saying that this agreement - which to me is nonsense - is good, because if we didn't have it, the united states would do whatever it wants anyway, no matter what the european union wants. but it is blackmail if we get this agreement only because otherwise we have to be afraid that the americans will do whatever they want anyway. this is not working! i wonder how you can explain this to me and to your constituents.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the simple fact is that the pnr agreement clearly does not provide adequate protection for the personal data of european citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the pnr agreement is still considered an executive agreement in the us, and that means it will not be submitted to congress for ratification. it is therefore not legally binding on the united states. if, for example, the travel patterns of european top executives can be fully traced over long periods of time, it is naive to assume that us foreign intelligence services would not use such a unique source of economic intelligence because of a non-legally binding agreement with europe. it's naive to assume that. there is no overall equality of treatment between european air passengers and those from the usa, and it must of course be said that the commission could and should have negotiated an improvement in the legal position of europeans.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament had adopted two motions for resolutions by a majority in 2010. in these two motions for resolutions, this house has clearly stated the conditions. it is a fact that this agreement counters these conditions. firstly, profiling is still not excluded. secondly, the pull procedure is still possible. thirdly, the purpose of the data transfer is not sufficiently specified. and in general, the purpose of collecting and storing mass data has not been explained at all and the european commission has not provided any alternatives. in summary, therefore, it must be stated that this agreement raises serious concerns with regard to the case law of the european court of human rights and with regard to the fundamental rights of the european charter. that is why i will of course not be voting in favour of this agreement. i think that this house would do very well to reject this agreement as well, in order to remain credible and to meet its own conditions.
i have to say, madam president, we all agree that the eu and the us must protect the safety of all citizens. the joint bilateral efforts against terrorism are out of the question. i think we're all agreed on that. however, i want to make it very clear today: data protection in the eu is regulated by article 16 of the tfeu and article 8 of the charter of fundamental rights and must be respected! please note that, among other things, articles 13 and 21 of this eu-us pnr agreement are in clear conflict and do not confer any new rights on european citizens. i therefore call on the commission to continue negotiations so that there is a solution acceptable to our citizens. ambassador eacho once said: "freedom without security is fragile, security without freedom is repressive". the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra, you have referred to the eu strategy against terrorism. it's all part of this strategy. the strategy also imposes ever more restrictions on our basic civil liberties, which are the very essence of life in the european union. we have swift, we have acta, we have these pnr agreements and so on. are you not also concerned that this will end up being too much and that what we value so much about europe, our free life, will be increasingly restricted by this? because i think it's happening.
i have to say, madam president, i would never question your conduct of the meeting. you're doing great. i just have one suggestion for the future. i signed up for catch-the-eye, too, and i've been here since the beginning. i have made myself known at the very beginning and i think it would be sensible to include the colleagues who are following the whole debate, rather than those who come to the end and then make themselves known quickly. it would be a fairer approach.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the first two votes concern the eu's voluntary partnership agreements with the two african states, liberia on the one hand and the central african republic on the other. the agreements will lead to the creation of a certification system that ensures that timber is legally harvested and subsequently traded. the production of wood is the most important economic sector in both african countries. it provides european businesses, workers and consumers with the assurance that imported wood comes from legal, certified sources. thank you to all the shadow rapporteurs and staff who contributed to the success of this report and thus wrote an important chapter on sustainability, environmental protection and participation of all affected populations in these regions plagued by civil wars.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i regret that the motion for a resolution tabled by mrs ernst and her group was rejected because it would have clearly demonstrated the opinion of the court of justice and also demonstrated that the agreement in question is contrary to the treaties of this union. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. it is not a very good signal that europe is sending to its citizens to bow to the united states of america. we're on our way to the glass man, and we're linking data. it's not just about this singular data, but it's about linking together incredible amounts of data -- including banks -- so that the glass man is actually getting closer and closer. it's another brick in the wall against civil liberties. i therefore voted against this agreement out of a deep conviction. especially since there is no reciprocity. europe is paying again, we are taking the shortcut again, there is no reciprocity. we're not getting the data that america has available. i therefore rejected this agreement, and i regret that the majority of this house did not do so.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the pnr agreement because i am concerned about the safety of air passengers. the agreement gives us false security. it is claimed that this is possible by the accumulation of huge amounts of data. the creation of such data centres is a threat to the security of citizens. it is possible to carry out a variety of statistical analyses of data which have nothing to do with the original objective. the fight against terrorism requires, above all, security forces that are as close as possible to the threat potential. the toulouse bomber, for example, was on a no-fly list of the americans. yet he was able to carry out his terrible deed. but i also voted against the agreement because i am concerned about transatlantic relations. these should be guided by the spirit of partnership, which i miss in this context.
in writing. − tropical and rainforest timber from the central african republic is a precious commodity. to control the trade in timber and curb illegal logging, the eu has already concluded voluntary partnership agreements with a number of african countries, including ghana, the congo and cameroon. the european union is also prepared to make a similar agreement with the central african republic. a key advantage of the agreement is the traceability of wood, legal verification and licensing of wood and wood products. about 60% of the timber from the central african republic is exported to europe. i voted in favour of the report because i agree with the rapporteur that the voluntary partnership agreement will have a positive impact on forestry in central africa. i abstained because it was not yet clear whether the partner country will be able to implement the agreement on time, as measures in the areas of capacity building, involving local communities, protecting indigenous communities and raising awareness among the various actors still need to be taken.
in writing. − the ep welcomes the conclusion of this agreement because it seeks to: fight against illegal logging and forest degradation; eliminate inadequate law enforcement and monitoring; establish systems for verification of legal compliance; improve forest governance and sustainable use of its timber; and provide a home to many indigenous communities who depend on the use of forest resources. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. − this agreement has been set up in order to boost the legal and fair trade in harvested timber on to the eu market and improve legal and sustainable forest governance in partner countries. almost 45 % of liberia is covered by forest and the country hosts over half of west africa’s remaining rainforests. therefore it is in our common interest to protect this area against deforestation and i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. − following the two previous proposals to amend council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 in response to the current economic and financial crisis, the commission is now proposing a third amendment to the regulation to include provisions for the creation of a risk-sharing instrument. the aim is to pump even more money into member states which already receive generous loans, such as ireland, greece, portugal and romania. the aim is to overcome credit bottlenecks for infrastructure and investment projects that can only be partly financed by public funds. this is despite the fact that hundreds of billions of euros have already flowed to these countries and their banks, and the fact that eu grants for infrastructure projects have already been increased from 50% to 85%. at some point, you have to draw the line, especially when you remember that the funds in the countries mentioned have not always been used correctly in the past. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. − the measure proposed in this report is intended to address the serious obstacles faced by some member states, raising the private financing needed to implement infrastructure and productive investment projects. the current proposal contains provisions that would allow the creation of a risk sharing instrument. the objective would be to provide capital contributions to cover expected and unexpected losses of loans and guarantees to be extended under a risk-sharing partnership with the european investment bank and/or other financial institutions, to which i fully agree. the measured proposed is an exception to the normal framework in which cohesion policy is implemented, justified only by the exceptional circumstances imposed by the crisis.
in writing. - the problems with the pnr agreement are many and have been discussed at length elsewhere. it is therefore more than appropriate that the ecj should examine this agreement, by which the european commission is once again sacrificing the rights of its citizens on the altar of so-called transatlantic cooperation. it is necessary to check whether this is compatible with the eu treaties and the human rights convention. because if they say that the present pnr agreement is better than none, that is true, but only in relation to the airlines. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft agreement on the protection of personal data. the agreement thus definitively undermines the rights of eu citizens and must therefore be rejected in the strongest possible terms. the report, which proposes to refer the agreement to the ecj, was therefore approved.
in writing. - i voted against the pnr agreement with the united states of america because it is going in the wrong direction. now, anyone who uses an airplane is being treated as a potential terrorist, anyone who uses the internet is being treated as a potential terrorist, anyone who uses a telephone is being treated as a potential terrorist, all with the justification of replacing an incredibly bad deal with one that is perhaps a little less bad. not with me!
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. this agreement does not provide sufficient protection for the personal data of european citizens. in particular, data may continue to be transferred to third countries at the discretion of the usa, and there is no equal treatment of european air travellers with those of the usa. the passenger data agreement will also be classified as an 'executive agreement'. that means it's not going to be submitted to congress for ratification and therefore it's not legally binding on the united states. conversely, the us has access to all data from the moment of booking, which is made worse by the fact that the data centres of all four major global accounting databases are located in the us, which since 2001 can use administrative orders at will. the european commission has failed to win on any issue of importance to europeans, and has failed to negotiate an improvement in the legal status of european air passengers. the result is an agreement that benefits the united states and its intelligence services exclusively. that is why i voted against the agreement.
in writing. - i am naturally also concerned about the effective fight against international terrorism through cooperation between states. the agreement with the united states on the transfer of passenger data to the department of homeland security is highly problematic from a data protection point of view. the data retrieval requirements have not been set, nor can it be controlled what exactly happens to the data transmitted. in particular, it is not clear whether the us is transferring the data to third countries. the data is stored permanently and the innocent citizen can be classified into opaque groups of suspects. i have serious concerns about the compatibility of the agreement with the charter of fundamental rights and the case law of the european court of justice. i voted against this because i am concerned about protecting the privacy of citizens from data abuse.
in writing. - this agreement has been improved in many respects and the protection of our citizens and the fight against terrorism are out of the question for me, because this is our common objective. but if you read that agreement very carefully, you will see that, for example, article 13 and article 21 are in clear contradiction. i am convinced that the european commission and the us authorities, with joint efforts, can manage to negotiate the shortcomings of this agreement, which is not only necessary but also good and important in its approach and basic idea, so that there can be and is a compromise acceptable to our citizens.
in writing. − to establish common rules for the calculation of the tax base for companies operating in the european union. when allocating the consolidated tax base, each member state shall apply its own tax rate to the share of the tax base allocated to it. the aim is to ensure that companies, whether or not they operate cross-border, are free to apply the common consolidated corporate tax base. the basic idea may be quite good. i think that this action by the commission is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, which is why i abstained.
in writing. − this report states that the introduction of a ccctb should improve growth and lead to more jobs in the union by reducing the administrative costs and red tape for companies – particularly for small businesses operating in several member states – and i fully agree with this. its adoption will improve the internal market scheme and employment rates.
in writing. - the commission's proposal is going in the wrong direction, particularly in times of sharp increases in fuel prices. the motorists are already overcharged. the so-called small people are particularly affected by the increase in the price of diesel. they would have to spend more on fuel costs, which would affect purchasing power. this would affect the economy and pass on an increase in transport costs to consumers, driving up inflation. that is why we cannot accept a higher tax on diesel. i am glad that the relevant passages have been removed from the text by voting on them. in principle, however, the rapporteur, mrs lulling, has done a very good job, which is why i voted for the report.
in writing. − the energy taxation directive adopted in 2003 is in urgent need of revision in view of new challenges. the new proposal incorporates two main components in the taxation. firstly, it taxes energy products according to their emissions. this takes into account the promotion of renewable energy. secondly, energy efficiency is taken into account. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to adopt a new system of taxation. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. − in my view, as a member of the committee on budgets, a tax on energy products could be part of the eu's future own resources and would thus relieve national budgets. however, it should also be borne in mind that fuel price increases may not be justified at present in the light of the fragile economic situation in europe, the worrying youth unemployment in some member states and the realistic expectation of a long-term economic recovery.
in writing. − tax fraud and tax evasion cause considerable revenue losses and undermine citizens' confidence in the fairness and legitimacy of the tax system. many large companies have left countries where tax collection has been improved and tax benefits abolished in order to benefit from tax benefits in other countries. similar trends have been observed in the case of subsidies. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the taxation of savings income and on the draft directive on the taxation of savings income and on the taxation of savings income. the fight against tax evasion, which is at the expense of honest taxpayers, is to be welcomed. however, it is not the eu's role to ask member states to refrain from bilateral negotiations with third countries in this context. i therefore abstained.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not prepared to accept this. i wanted to intervene so that this would not become a purely british discussion. mr. batten, i'm beginning to worry. i have to be honest. i know from your previous speeches that you did not want britain in the european union. now i hear you don't want britain in the european convention on human rights either. if you think about it, you might not want britain in the un in the future either. do you not think that if you were to prevail, it would slowly become very lonely around britain and that would do a massive amount of damage to britain as a whole? i believe that!
i have to say, madam president, i have to speak because i disagree with your presidency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have had a very interesting debate here in the uk. there were a lot of blue cards, more than usual. you let people talk for over a minute, you let people answer for over a minute. that's not correct. i would ask you to refrain from doing so in future so that other members can have a say.
in writing. the eu's accession to the jrc is to be rejected for several reasons: first of all, there's no need. the court of justice already has a fundamental rights jurisdiction. the individual may lodge an application for annulment in order to have acts reviewed. we also have a charter of fundamental rights since lisbon. secondly - and this is highly problematic for me - the eu is subject to external control by the ecthr. apart from conflicts of jurisdiction with the ecj, how do we get our acts to be reviewed by azerbaijani, ukrainian or turkish judges? these countries are not in the eu, nor do they know much about human rights! finally, on the substance: do we really need a court that wants to annul the dublin ii agreement? a court where you have to fight to the highest court to get permission to hang crosses? a court that wanted to forbid italy to defend itself against the migrant storm on lampedusa? or england to defend against sham marriages? we do not need this left-wing jurisprudence of the echr!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the hope was that the new biometric passports would prevent counterfeiting and thus increase security. but in france alone, it is estimated that about 1 million biometric passports are in circulation based on forged birth certificates. the passports were introduced in 2004 under pressure from the us, and contain the biometric images and fingerprints of the holder. however, some of these fingerprints are not legible, according to a study from the netherlands. more than a fifth of the passes there were useless. in older people, as well as in children, it is even more difficult to classify fingerprints correctly. all in all, biometric passports once again appear to be an expensive, dubious means by which the united states is stepping up its fight against terrorism. the results of the three-year study are now being presented and it will be necessary to evaluate carefully whether these biometric passports will finally make sense.
in writing. biometric passports are used to prevent stolen or forged passports from being used to commit a crime. and to support cross-border searches, biometric data will be fed into the next generation of europe-wide police information system. the use of biometrics is intended to create an additional barrier to falsification. of course, technical assistance to border controls could save time for travellers and controllers. at least, that's the theory. in practice, experts consider passport biometrics to be an ineffective means of fighting terrorists - the likelihood of unrecognized infiltration may even increase. and the fight against terrorism was one of the main reasons for the introduction of the biometric passport. and sis ii is still not working. and then there are more than enough countries with conventional passports that are easily forged, not to mention poorly guarded borders. but it's precisely these that are being used for illegal immigration. it seems that the wide disparity in security standards within the eu has not changed much with the introduction of biometric passports. we must therefore eliminate sources of error and counterfeiting of passports and reinforce border controls, particularly along the smuggling routes. and that's what frontex needs to be equipped for.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank the council for its presence. this is a very important and sensitive issue. that is why it is of the utmost importance for us and for the house to be able to have this debate with you today. the european commission intends to carry out the reassessment of lessfavoured areas in the context of the reform of the common agricultural policy. in the report by herbert dorfmann of may 2010, we have already shown massive concerns about the new calculation model. the proposal provides for a uniform classification of lessfavoured areas according to eight biophysical criteria, such as low temperatures, dryness, soil type or slope. the results of the new mapping are fatal for some regions. the new criteria would result in massive redistributions in certain regions. we know that from some member states. we do not have the detailed calculations and simulations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we shall do everything we can to ensure that sensitive areas which are obviously affected by natural handicaps do not disappear from the map. what data can the council provide and when will parliament receive all the simulations? as the representative of the member states, the council must ensure that parliament is not left behind in this decision-making process. parliament wants and will work out good solutions for farmers in the course of the cap negotiations. until all the data are available, we will reserve the right to exclude the question of disadvantaged areas from the reform altogether. i also ask you to take this house and its concerns seriously. i want planning certainty for our farms and programs that enable us to make a living on the farms. our main criticism is that it should no longer be possible to distinguish between individual farms according to the type of production of the farm. we want a set of criteria. the maintenance of the farm in areas with difficult conditions is a matter of paying off the total output. it is about recognising the public interest and farming in all regions of europe. it is about preserving the rural heritage. we expect concrete answers from you today! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can imagine that it was not easy for the council presidency to come here today. but i see in this defeat, in not being able to present anything satisfactory to us today, also a hope and a chance for the future, simply to negotiate again with the commission and to re-examine what should be presented here today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need a criterion which takes account of socioeconomic situations. and we need to see the countryside as a common living and economic space. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national data centres to monitor the use of data in the field of transport. i would ask you to forget about the atlas as it is now being requested. the member states are obviously not willing to supply it anyway. let us make an atlas which, in addition to these criteria, also includes real socioeconomic criteria.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission by mrs anna maria corazza bildt, on behalf of the european people's party (christian democrats), and mrs evelyn gebhardt, on behalf of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats, on the subject of 'locally produced' food in the european parliament (o-000046/2012 b7-0109/2012) [2012/2610 (rsp) ].
question for the commissioner: i have a question for my south tyrolean colleague. you said you didn't like the short chains much. my question is now - and it may be of interest to you - whether you do not also consider that these small regional enterprises with a short production chain make a significant contribution to the maintenance of small-scale structures in the alpine region. in other words, are not these self-marketing, small-scale enterprises, which are able to market themselves, also a chance for the survival of their enterprises and the region? and second, how would you like a bacon? a bacon that is finished in tyrol but comes from belgium? or a bacon that is produced, slaughtered and made exclusively in tyrol?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am grateful to the commission for the opportunity to discuss this very important matter today. our aim must be to create added value for consumers on the one hand and, above all, for producers. i share the view that the concept of 'regionality' or 'local production' needs to be defined in a clear and comprehensible way. the debate is broader in scope. europe must rethink its food policy and the whole food industry. shortcuts may be an approach. we need a common path where everyone can move towards quality, transparency and safety in production. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the common agricultural policy. the basic pillars of such a food model are, for me, food safety, food quality, diversity and regionality. food safety must be the basic precondition for the definition of regionality. this means that we must be sure of the origin of our food. and here is the most important thing first: the country of origin of a food must be visible to the consumer.
the next speaker is mrs kadenbach, to whom i would like to offer my warmest congratulations on her birthday.
mr president, thank you very much. - i'm not sure. i think i can join mrs mcguinness in saying that because i see things differently from her. i do not see it as protectionism, but i see it as an opportunity and a duty to inform consumers. not because of that. and i have to disagree with a colleague because i want to appreciate it. i'm not saying that local or regional products are better. i am simply saying to the consumer that he can make a conscious decision whether he wants a product from his region, either because he knows the production conditions or because he is in favour of products from his region ending up on his table for reasons of nature and the environment. i see a very great opportunity for the consumer to make conscious choices about the environment, to make conscious choices about jobs in the region, to make conscious choices about certain production methods, and i see absolutely no danger to the internal market because i see a great opportunity to make a very conscious choice about irish butter or irish milk if i want to. but if i want to buy milk and cheese from the forest district and buy locally, i have to know where the products come from, otherwise i cannot exercise this freedom of choice.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. - i'm not sure. we have some agreement in this house that direct marketing or the promotion of local products is or can be beneficial to both consumers and producers. it is clear that in areas of small-scale structured agriculture - such as our alpine region - direct marketing to farmers is one of the few great opportunities to ensure the survival of such small farms. on the other hand, it is also clear that the consumer here in a world where he has to consume industrially mass-produced food has the chance to get just personalized, ecologically healthy, natural food. unfortunately, it seems that the european union has so far been more concerned with preventing such locally produced food from gaining ground or being consumed, through bureaucratic obstacles. so on the one hand we should prevent labelling fraud, to prevent long transport routes and the like. we should very well define local products. we should take care of the protection of the designation of origin. but we should not regulate all this in a european-centralist way.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. the problem is, of course, only if everyone understands it differently and there are different definitions and drawings to describe the products. the question is: is locality about kilometres, about the same region, about the same member state, etc.? it will be important to define clearly and uniformly in the quality package how locally produced food is defined. the consumer expectations must be taken into account in order to avoid misleading. the bizarre criticism i have heard more often today that the term 'local' can lead to food nationalism and is contrary to the spirit of the internal market is absurd to me. europe benefits from the diversity of local and regional food producers. this diversity and quality must be promoted and protected by clear labelling.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation of immigrants in greece.
question for the commissioner: i would like to thank mrs hohlmeier for also highlighting the positive aspects, namely, in the spirit of the 'blue card', to work out how we can meaningfully integrate migrants in europe. it is important to look at the qualifications and to see what needs we have for entrepreneurs in europe and how they can be integrated into the work process in a positive way. it is also important to make a thorough analysis here and to look at how it would be possible to integrate these people into europe in a meaningful way. that's my question.
i have to say, madam president, there are things i don't understand about today's discussion. on the one hand, the commission wants to place the eu under the auspices of the european court of human rights, a court that overturns dublin ii, which prohibits asylum seekers from being sent back to their country of origin. on the other hand, i hear all the time today that this dublin ii regulation is a very important measure to solve this problem. we are hearing the same status reports about the problem over and over again: the green border is open, open like a gate, turkey is negligent, unwilling to cooperate, except for occasional proposals for financial junk-timing. i wonder why it is not honestly admitted that a fence is not the best solution, but it is also a solution, commissioner, to at least take an initial step. we must not forget that the people in these regions of greece also have a right to be heard and to be protected.
in writing. the further development of the european higher education area is a key prerequisite for europe to maintain and develop its global competitiveness. this requires, above all, an increase in student mobility. various programmes, such as erasmus, have played a major role in making europe a global leader. internally, such programmes also contribute to strengthening the sense of european unity. unfortunately, in some member states, the implementation of the bologna architecture has led to a decline in students' willingness to include study periods abroad in their curricula. the increasing pressure on individual universities to achieve higher qualifications is also making it more difficult for students to move, which is so important. the main priority for further reform is therefore to avoid further undermining the willingness to move. in addition to the commission's programmes, institutional incentives must be created in the context of the reform of curricula.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the commissioner for his commitment to the issue of biodiversity. and i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for producing such a comprehensive report that we can talk about today. i would just like to see a lot of what is in the report implemented. we will also need better communication, as has already been said today. the issues of ecological services and biodiversity are still treated a little bit like an orchid, which we will deal with when we have time, and not just talk about the monetary and financial orientation of europe. i think this is the wrong approach. because if we have an eco-service system that can really work, then we also produce better, we have better food, and we save a lot of investment that actually goes against biodiversity. we are now faced with the great challenge of implementing biodiversity in europe as something really lived and implementing it in the member states, with the orientation of the new common agricultural policy. so i think we need both rails. we need the appropriate funds in the long-term european financial framework, but we also need them at the level of the member states. i would ask you, commissioner, and my colleagues in the council, to ensure that biodiversity is not discussed only afterwards, because then it will be too late.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner, the subject of the death of bees has been raised today. this is an area that i've been dealing with for some time. there are many beekeepers, but also many farmers in agriculture, who are really worried because we have evidence that in europe we are experiencing a very sharp decline in bees and pollinating insects in general. we have asked the commission on several occasions to take action here. we are convinced that on the one hand it is due to the incorrect use of pesticides and on the other hand there are pesticides on the market that are really harmful. secondly - and this is a personal addition - i ask you to continue to work hard in the future to ensure that those member states which do not want genetically modified seeds for the benefit of their own population can manage it in the future in such a way that they keep their soil, their food and their foodstuffs free of genetically modified organisms.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not entitled to say this, but i would like to say it because no one else does: for the first time you have conducted the sitting in an excellent way! (applause from the centre)
in writing. the project of the iter international research reactor in cadarache, in southern france, is worth billions of euros and receives 45% of european funding. eur 1 300 million is to be made available to finance the additional costs of the iter project for the period 2012-13. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the world economy. in addition, prominent scientists have vehemently opposed the iter fusion reactor, calling the experimental project 'unviable and unworkable'. finally, the construction costs, which have risen from eur 5 billion to eur 15 billion, put at risk many other important research projects. i voted against it for these reasons.
in writing. − the economic crisis is damaging europe’s higher education systems. some countries are not financially supporting their universities as they should if they want to compete with the more advanced member states. the report provides alarming data, such as that more than 21% of young people in the eu are unemployed. the rapporteur urges member states to develop and fund new modern courses which provide students with professional skills useful for directly integrating into the future labour market. however, it underlines the importance of academic spirit, which should never be subordinated to the market. therefore, this report can be positively assessed.
in writing. − to facilitate the interaction of the public with public authorities, online services are already being offered in many countries. the development of e-government services is seen in most member states as being based on office automation, networking between public administrations and the development of appropriate digital content and applications. electronic identification, authentication, signatures and private key infrastructures need to be mutually recognised for successful egovernment. i have abstained because the report does not deal with possible solutions to the crossborder recognition of electronic certificates.
in writing. − within the framework of the ‘eu 2020’ strategy for europe’s growth, the ‘digital agenda for europe’ is one of seven flagship initiatives. a very important component of this agenda is to promote smart, secure, sustainable and innovative egovernment centred on using the tools and systems made possible by information and communication technologies to provide better public services to citizens and businesses. i agree with this aim. egovernment development is considered in most member states to be based, on the one hand, on office automation and the interconnectivity network between public administrations and, on the other hand, on the development of the right digital content and applications.
in writing. - the assassination of president amadou toumani touré in mid-march appears to have halted the slow process of democratization in mali for a long time. the wave of political arrests and the renewed fighting between government forces and rebels are indications of an escalation. in addition, some extremist groups have spread in mali. humanitarian aid is important, but i believe that under the current conditions it will not reach the civilian population in need, and there is a risk that the aid will be misused by rebels and others. the first step is to improve coordination between all the aid agencies so that they no longer work in isolation. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one, but i think that it is not the best one.
in writing. − this motion for a resolution stresses the importance of finding a peaceful and lasting solution to the conflict between the malian authorities and the tuareg liberation movement. malian citizens have the right to fair access to resources, sustainable and equitable development of their regions and redistribution of wealth. the military forces – in agreement with the government – have to respect the sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of mali, and fight against jihadist and separatist groups in order to protect the civil population. they must also promote development, social justice, the rule of law and integration and prevent future drought in this area.
in writing. the recent elections in burma were free and fair, marking another step towards democracy and peace. the european union has made progress in the fight against terrorism, but it is not yet clear whether it will be able to achieve the objectives it has set itself. and while we rejoice in the democratic progress, we must not forget the still precarious situation of human rights. if democratic progress is maintained, the human rights situation improves markedly and criminal prosecution is systematically pursued, there is nothing to prevent closer trade relations with the eu. i have taken this into account in my voting behaviour.
in writing. − the results that burma/myanmar has obtained after the democratic elections are one step, and more improvements in human right’s protection in the country are needed. although the new government has initiated democratic processes, the eu and other international bodies have the ethical duty to monitor the unstable situation in burma/myanmar, deliver humanitarian assistance, evaluate the ongoing political and economic reform process, and stress the importance of the presence in burma of aid agencies and the united nations.
in writing. − it is of the utmost importance that european external aid is used efficiently and with certainty. a transfer of the management of external assistance from the central administration of the commission to the delegations has positive effects on economy and efficiency. in addition, decentralisation can also massively increase the pace of aid. there is still room for improvement overall. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. - the report 'women and climate change' is a prime example of the left-leaning ideologisation of all sectors of society. the aim here is no longer equality for women, but the complete restructuring of society according to the ideas of left-wing social engineering. it does not give the individual more freedom, as is claimed. on the contrary, the widespread introduction of gender mainstreaming encourages and includes lifestyle designs that contradict the ideas of the vast majority of the population intuitively and argumentatively. i therefore had to vote against it for reasons of principle.
in writing. − according to the rapporteur, gender-based discrimination is found everywhere in our societies, and she believes it essential that it be taken into consideration in climate policies in order to avoid worsening the situation – an opinion with which i fully agree. even if the link between women and climate change is not immediately obvious, this is because women are not a homogenous group around the globe, and most probably because gender is not a sufficiently universal factor. the adoption of this report will improve the protection policies towards women in already critical situations that should complement each other. it is also important to use climate policies to change current mindsets by including groups which defend women’s rights in negotiation processes and funding mechanisms that improve women’s education.
in writing. - biodiversity means 'diversity of life'. over the millennia, the planet and the species that inhabit it have changed. there have been ice ages and droughts, continents have shifted and the climate has changed. we may find ourselves in a similar situation today. not all environmental changes are man-made and therefore cannot be controlled or directed by man. i abstained because the strategy is not completely dead.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not you have mentioned the changes, the challenges, but also the successes of europe. but there are also disappointments: the recent election results in greece have certainly been a bitter disappointment to us. but the people in greece are also disappointed in europe. they're desperate. the elections were an expression of hopelessness and resistance to social injustice. europe has not been able to offer signs of hope alongside the call for necessary reforms. but there is hope: there are already good signs of change. the french people elected a president who represents social justice and european values. i would also like to congratulate françois hollande on his election today. i also think that "le changement, c'est maintenant!" (applause from the centre) and as martin wolf not a social democrat wrote today in the financial times: "hollande alone of european leaders has the desire and the ability to try to bring europe out of the crisis. and that's what we have to do. europe will only succeed if we can overcome this crisis! so that everyone understands this correctly, especially on the right, for example in germany: the european community is now not only german-speaking but also french-speaking, and above all social democratic-speaking, not only in france but also in romania and other countries. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. millions of people had to die before we could make peace between the nations of europe. and this peace project is still exciting. but europe must offer more than peace between peoples. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. the consequence is often the support of extreme and often anti-european parties. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration. but we social democrats, and i think many of us, do not want a war between generations, a war between natives and immigrants, a war between the social partners. on the contrary, we want to preserve and restore social peace in europe. my group - and i have made this clear time and again - is not opposed to a policy of budgetary consolidation. but what we are seeing in europe today is a course of austerity that often leads to the opposite. important investments have been and will be omitted. for example, public investment has fallen dramatically in recent years. but what are the heads of government and, unfortunately, the commission doing? with further budgetary restrictions instead of growth and investment. and it is precisely these policies that are leading to even greater deficits. i'm starting to rethink my thinking. but for us - i say this openly and honestly - it's far too timid. we need no more lip service and no more tranquilizers, we need more room for public investment. and we need a new, really golden rule, a rule for growth and employment, which links budgetary discipline with investment for growth and employment. we do not need a golden rule, which is really a rigid austerity policy and a cheat sheet when it comes to growth and employment. we need - and you have mentioned this, mr president - jobs for young people. how can we get young people excited about this europe if we are at the same time producing and tolerating massive unemployment in europe? the socialist group therefore calls for a guarantee of employment and training for young people. young people need jobs in europe again. only then can europe inspire! (applause from the centre) but social europe must include all the people who live and work in our europe, including those who have come to it. we must in particular address those who were born in europe and are still considered foreigners or aliens. integration is not just integration between different states, but also integration of all our fellow citizens into daily life and into political decision-making processes. a crisis that threatens our social peace does not require isolation and exclusion, but openness and inclusion. unlike geert wilders, marine le pen and the neo-fascist party chrysi avgi in greece, we want to make it clear to these fellow citizens: the european union is also your home and you should also feel at home here in europe. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, in a discussion today in the group of the european people's party, to which we have invited young people to discuss the future of europe, one of the participants said: 'the crisis is not a punishment from god, it is a home-made crisis'. and that is why we must come out of this crisis together. this parliament must recognize the signs of the times. we have many differences in the details; but together we must fight the forces of destruction in europe. we must work together to ensure that social peace can be restored in europe. my group is ready to defend and strengthen europe. i hope that many will join us in this journey, that this europe, which you, mr president, have spoken of so positively, is also our common europe. for all of us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in time for the holiday season, roaming charges will be cut from july, for example to 70 cents per megabyte for the internet. smartphones can then be used without the risk of a cost avalanche. the plans for increased competition in the mobile phone market are particularly welcome. from 2014 customers will be able to choose the cheapest provider and to book roaming services separately, including from foreign providers. each time you cross the border, your phone will automatically switch to the network of the carrier you have chosen, and the number will remain the same. roaming charges are the only area of the eu where crossing the border alone is costly. all in all, a very positive way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am thinking here of the current situation of social dumping caused by the opening up of the labour market in south-eastern europe. finally, something very positive has been created here, a real path, one can only congratulate!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank angelika niebler, our commissioner. roaming is an example of how we respond to citizens' requests. recently, a student from the university of linz complained to me that for a call she took from brussels to munich to reach her boyfriend, which took over two hours, she had to pay only 7 cents per minute at home and 3.60 euros here in brussels, so that the shock bill after two hours cost more than the entire stay in brussels. commissioner reding was quick to respond. we have passed the roaming i regulation within seven months. that was a record time. there was a sunset clause for the first time. the rapid regulation at european level means that we are also keeping up with the times and can therefore offer advantages. this is a huge advantage for consumers. it has often been emphasized here today that it is about prices. i would like to deny that. we are not regulating prices here, but we are declaring when the citizen has a right to be protected from abuse. we have relied on industry for data roaming. she promised us that there would be dramatic reductions. this has not been done with roaming ii. that is why we have the roaming iii regulation. if you consider that today you can still buy a 1 gigabyte data package in one member state for 4 euros and that on the other hand it is still possible that you had to pay up to 13 900 euros for this package and that abroad it is currently between 2 500 and 3 500 euros, then the reduction to 700 euros is a huge step. i would like to thank you for the fact that by 2014 it will be down to 200 euros. but compared with the 4 euros currently used nationally, i am already calling for a regulation of roaming iv.
i have to say, madam president, europe has always had very positive messages to deliver. the schengen agreement, which brought us freedom of movement, and the introduction of the single currency, the euro, were all examples of this. and the particularly positive message today is low, affordable and upwardly constrained prices for the transmission of sms and for the use of data roaming. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. communication with smartphones, with tablets, will become much cheaper and more customer-friendly. and as is usual with voters, consumers will be able to choose their provider abroad. the commission will also be introducing consumer protection measures. i am particularly pleased that this good news can be announced today, on europe day, 9 may, and i am delighted that consumers will be spared the annoyingly high telecommunications bills after this year's summer holiday abroad. i am also happy for the people in the border regions, who will be able to use their smartphones and tablets in hinkunft without fear of surprisingly high bills when they cross borders at short notice to do their business.
in writing. when a contract with unlimited data is available for 15 euros per month, while a contract with a limited data volume costs hundreds of euros if the free units are exceeded, this is more than questionable. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to all types of roaming services. it is important that consumers be protected from opaque pricing policies of mobile operators, for example through the roaming initiative. unfortunately, a mobile phone can easily become a cost trap. it is still not possible for all providers to automatically block value-added and data services, nor can monthly cost limits be agreed, nor is there any agreement if, for example, free units are overtaken by young people. this is not only problematic in view of the fact that mobile users are becoming younger and less experienced. mobile phone and smartphone owners may unknowingly and without their consent purchase a mobile phone subscription by pretending to download free apps or by accidentally clicking on advertisements displayed in an app. the eu must ensure that consumer rights are also respected in the mobile communications sector. the right to object should be strengthened and settlement blocks guaranteed, for example. last but not least, users of smartphones or mobile phones must have the right to agree or reject a subscription agreement without any additional cost to the user.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the context of migration and the fight against illegal migration, europe needs action plans, not reaction plans. i therefore welcome the measures and plans which have been mentioned by the commission and the council today. but i can imagine that we would achieve much better results if europe were to take more preventive measures - that is, more targeted development aid rather than self-help aid, to improve political and economic situations on the ground - if europe were to take more action on the ground to educate potential migrants about the consequences of illegal migration and the possibilities for legal migration. we must rely on the strengthening of frontex and on functioning readmission agreements. these are all measures that destroy the business models of the traffickers and also disrupt this criminal business, thus helping to reduce or prevent illegal migration.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i cannot understand why the italian authorities are always blamed for the results. for example, one wonders why lampedusa was declared a dangerous port. the question could be answered by anyone who is not blind in one eye but who understands that the people who are at home in lampedusa also have legitimate concerns about their safety. we must draw the right conclusions and also recognize that a large number of refugees leave their countries for social reasons. that's understandable, but they're not classic asylum seekers in the traditional sense. asylum procedures must also be completed before departure or in third countries. nor should aid be linked to cooperation in the return of migrants. it is indeed terrible and sad what is happening off the coast of europe. but anyone who presents europe as a promised land with unlimited capacity for reception is also complicit in this catastrophe.
in writing. the rome ii regulation determines the law applicable to non-contractual obligations where more than one member state is involved. this includes, for example, product liability or culpa in contrahendo. in principle, the regulation provides that either the law of the state in which the damage occurs or the law of the state in which the injured person is habitually resident is to apply. but rome ii does not apply to cases relating to the protection of privacy and freedom of expression. the increased use of the internet has led to a number of cross-border situations. rome ii does not in principle harmonise substantive law: the regulation contains conflict-of-law rules which make it possible to determine the applicable law. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to provide for the possibility of a review of the provisions of the directive in the light of the new provisions. this balance must be respected in the spirit of the principle of subsidiarity.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, a little over a year ago we all – or at least most of us – criticised the policy pursued in previous years by the eu and lots of member states towards the southern mediterranean countries. this was a policy which mostly focused on stability and on getting oil and other resources from autocratic or even dictatorial regimes. this has changed, and we, as greens, were strongly in favour of the more formal approach that the commission announced last year, making it clear that european policy in the future will not be about the exclusion of civil society, of women, or of groups that are not part of a ruling élite. it was clear too, at that time, that the commission said it would also focus on the economy and on trade. for us, as greens, the positive aspects of this report as negotiated in committee are the inclusion – and our thanks go to mr rinaldi and all the other shadow rapporteurs – of environmental issues, of sensitivities on the environment and ecology, and of the emphasis on social rights, with the provision that all social forces are to be included in negotiations for free trade agreements or indeed deep and comprehensive free trade agreements (dcftas), on transparency, on the inclusion of civil society and on the importance of regional cooperation and the need to go through the agadir framework. nevertheless, as greens, we have some reservations about what ftas and dcftas might mean in terms of the liberalisation of trade in a way that mostly serves the interests of the eu economy and big eu agricultural groups, without taking into account the interests and expectations of citizens in the southern mediterranean. mr rinaldi rightly said that, as greens, we have certain reservations here, and we are demanding that the aspects of inclusiveness and transparency, now present in the report, must also be present on the commission’s side when negotiations on agreements are being concluded. we would also prefer to see negotiations within the agadir framework, rather than bilateral negotiations, because we consider the regional approach to be more important. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. you are quite right that in some parts of the world economic development has already helped to reduce poverty and that certain groups of people in some countries have also succeeded in having a higher standard of living and less poverty. but we have seen in all the countries with which we have free trade agreements that the focus on agricultural exports is what is helping to produce products not primarily for local and regional markets and local and regional populations, but for export, and that is contributing to poverty. secondly, the question of human rights, the participation of civil society and democratization in the countries concerned has been given far too little importance by the european union itself. we insist on it! and without that, there will be no social justice!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on paper, it may look very good if the union's trade and investment strategy for the arab countries is linked to democratic progress. in practice, however, the arab revolution has long since become an islamic one in many areas. the arab peoples are often less concerned with democracy than with greater prosperity. and that is exactly what the islamists, who are known to be organised right down to the smallest rural villages, have promised. however, democratic values such as minority and human rights are notoriously unknown to the muslim brotherhood. the islamic parties have not only won key positions after their electoral successes, but they are also reportedly trying to put pressure on the people. the arab spring has already been lost to women, artists and minorities, and the situation of christians in the arab world is particularly worrying. in egypt, copts are under pressure, in iraq the exodus of christian minorities has begun, and in a post-assad syria there are also fears of violence against christians. i believe that the eu's aid to the arab states in transition must be linked to the obligation to protect their christian minorities. if these countries are tolerating or even encouraging discrimination against christians, then their subsidies must be cut and, in extreme cases, abolished! the eu's support should also be linked to readmission agreements for illegal migrants, and it is important to monitor closely whether these countries are also prepared to comply with these agreements.
the commission has already done so. the commission has already made it clear that it is not possible to speak of an arab spring, of a dew as a sign of spring. it turns out that secular authoritarian regimes are now being replaced by elected islamic authoritarian regimes. and this is a development that is highly disruptive and highly dangerous, especially for minorities. the measure of a democracy is respect for human rights, but it is also the way in which minorities are treated, including religious minorities. and the situation of christians is dramatic. an hour ago there was a conference here in the house, organized by the ecr and the epp. referring to a study by the osce, it found that 75% of those killed in violence in these countries were christians. this is not a coincidence, it has to do with the islamization of these countries. the muslim brotherhood and the salafists see christians as enemies of the west. of course, they don't realize that this is actually part of the arab world. but it's being ignored. i therefore ask the commission to take into account in its agreements that it must be a condition that these countries treat christian minorities differently.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report before us once again makes it very clear that the arab spring is a unique event. the european union is a party to the treaty of rome, which is the foundation of the european union. these people's expectations of the eu are therefore particularly high during economic development. the euro-mediterranean free trade area is an ambitious economic project. the democratization of the economic process and the support for the creation of smes will benefit the citizens above all. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, this must and can only be done with respect for all human rights.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in this report, the european parliament draws attention to the particular importance of regional airports, both as transport hubs and as essential for economic growth in the region and for the union as a whole. i would like to stress three points in particular in order to strengthen these regional airports. the first is that connectivity with other modes of transport and with international transport hubs needs to be improved; the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 29 june 2014 and entered into force on 1 january 2014. thirdly, they are used as an alternative to capacity constraints at hub airports. it must also be clear that these regional airports must not be built as monuments to local politicians, but must of course pay for themselves in the medium term. efficiency and economy must be paramount. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr philip bradbourn, for his excellent cooperation.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the most important thing to do first is to propose in our report that the commission should be given a discharge for the implementation of the 8th, 9th and 10th edfs for 2010 and that the accounts should be approved. i believe that the commission has made progress in many areas. i believe that many of the court of auditors' and the european parliament's demands have already been met. i would like to make a few points, however, which need to be criticized. the question of integrating the edf into the eu budget is one example. we have lost a very great opportunity to integrate the edf in the course of the discussion on the multiannual financial framework. the new target for 2020 is understandable. that's good, too, because it needs to be targeted. the edf should be integrated into the budget at the latest when the cotonou agreement expires. another evergreen is the error rates. the likely error rate of 3,4% is clearly too high, well above the materiality threshold of 2%, and needs to be reduced. a stable error rate is not a success in my view. there are a number of measures adopted by the commission. but if the error rate is constant, you have to realize that these measures have not worked and you have to look for new measures. the commission states that the residual error rate is well below the materiality threshold of 2%. the commission does not provide any clear indicators to support this calculation. the commission is already working on a key indicator in this area. this should be completed by 2013 at the latest. the control and monitoring systems are only partially effective. the delegations are the main area to be addressed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i will propose to the committee on budgetary control that we submit an own-initiative report to look closely at how this monitoring system works, whether it is really efficient and effective. on budget support: this has also been an evergreen for 20 years and always a highlight and part of the debate. i think that the controls are not really working here either. we must think about reform here. i know that the commission is of the opinion that there are a lot of misunderstandings with the committee on budgetary control, with some of the members, as to the facts. the commission's proposal at the time to hold another hearing to clear up these very misunderstandings is very good. that would be a good way to take things a step further. we have paid particular attention in our discharge report to the investment facility and also to the eib. there are already a few things to note, including that the investment facility is not part of the court's statement of assurance and is not taken into account. the lack of transparency of the final recipients is also worth mentioning, and they are not clearly accessible here, so it should be cleaned up as soon as possible! the question of efficiency in the use of funds must also be addressed. the fact is that some 14% of the investment facility is managed by european institutions and joint ventures. i think that is a very inefficient structure. the cash flow is way too long, there are too many institutions in between making money from it, earning interest from it. here we should make sure that development aid does not become an end in itself. i therefore propose that the court of auditors should produce a special report examining the investment facility in greater detail. i would ask for your support and for further suggestions in the report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as rapporteur for the discharge to the agencies in 2008, i had a similar experience. i wrote then in various reports what was criticized here in the plenary and proposed that 16 of the 20 agencies should not be given discharge. it was all voted out then. i can sympathize with mrs macovei now, because we have at least managed to get a majority in the committee on three questions for the report, but it seems to be wavering here. that is very unfortunate. i think it is not in line with parliament's demand that we should exercise such control. i also regret that you have not succeeded, and there have apparently been no initiatives, in also not giving discharge on a report, namely on the iter project. if you read your report and see that you are very critical of it in a number of points, in paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 7, 10, 12, 13, 27, it is hard to understand why the discharge is not also not given.
question for the commissioner: thank you very much, mrs. flašíková. i'm interested in the human rights agency. could you briefly tell us what the most important achievements of the human rights agency have been in recent times?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. the agencies have been a very contentious subject in this debate, so perhaps i should like to use my second speaking time to briefly touch on the agencies. mrs haug is right, the agencies have been very, very heavily criticised over the last seven years and more. i think you're right. there are ambiguities, there are questionable location choices, there are questions about the primary legal basis, there are inflated boards of directors and so on. so there are some very urgent questions to be asked here. these are horizontal questions, of course, i understand that. but now new questions have come up about three specific agencies. this is a conflict of interest, this is a conflict of several interests, not just one. this concerns open questions relating to tender procedures. this is a question of wasting taxpayers' money. of course, it is up to each individual member how he views these cases, whether he grants discharge or not. but i would remind the house that we have recently had very, very massive corruption cases here in this house and that this house is also obliged for that very reason - it is really obliged! - to deal adequately with conflicts of interest. i would also like to remind you - and perhaps also mr geier's address - that today's decision is not about refusing discharge. it's about the delay in the discharge. so the question is, do we have more time, does the agency have more time to sort out the open questions? i therefore strongly believe that it is the duty of every member to allow this longer period. i would therefore like to call for support for mrs macovei's proposal. i think her work is excellent and i would like to compliment her on that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for this report, but i have serious reservations about the general considerations in paragraph 17. the catastrophic situation of christians in these countries of the so-called arab spring is only mentioned in an addendum which states that parliament insists on the need to respect democratic institutions and fundamental rights, including freedom of expression and association and the protection of religious minorities. that's not enough! we must make it clear to the countries that the christian minorities who have lived there for centuries cannot be treated in the same way as the islamic fundamentalists who are now coming to power through elections and replacing the secular dictators who have been overthrown, that these people cannot be met with murder and massacre. in tahrir square, muslims and christians were together. now, elections are creating majorities that have nothing to do with these protests. the christians are the losers of this arab spring that we must protect. and that is what this agreement is intended to do in the future. the european union must make it a condition that the christian minorities there are protected before we conclude such agreements.
in writing. - the wto dispute settlement body found in the case european communities final anti-dumping measures against certain iron or steel fasteners from china that a council regulation on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community was incompatible with articles of the wto anti-dumping convention. i voted in favour of the report because it guarantees that the european union will respect a reasonable period of time for the implementation of the recommendations and decisions of the dispute settlement body agreed between the european union and china. only rapid implementation can ensure the protection of the domestic market against dumped products and thus counteract price distortion.
in writing. − the wto anti-dumping proceeding concerning certain iron or steel fasteners originating in china has revealed that parts of the eu basic anti-dumping regulation are allegedly incompatible with wto law. in the event of a dispute, the european union intends to implement its wto obligations, which, for reasons of time, and in order to meet the agreed deadline, should be done by a resolution under the simplified procedure. i do not agree with this approach and have therefore voted against it. see minutes
in writing. - after china's accession to the wto, there were numerous lawsuits against the people's republic, mainly for price dumping. almost all the complaints are from competitors who are seriously threatened by the low prices. on 28 july 2011, the dispute settlement body (dsb) of the world trade organisation in the case 'european communities' 'final anti-dumping measures on certain iron or steel fasteners originating in the prc' ('the dsb') (1) adopted the report of the appellate body and the panel report as amended by the report of the appellate body ('the reports'). the reports found that article 9 (5) of council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 of 30 november 2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community ('the basic anti-dumping regulation') (2) is incompatible with articles 6.10, 9.2 and 18.4 of the wto anti-dumping agreement and article xvi (4) of the wto agreement. in view of these findings of the incompatibility of parts of the basic anti-dumping regulation of the european union with wto law, i am clearly opposed to it.
in writing. − the european union and china discussed new solutions and strategies in order to tackle the problem of lack of fairness, safety and hygiene of products coming from this asian country. i firmly believe that it is necessary to implement the dsb recommendations and rulings as soon as possible. therefore i supported this report with my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because russia's accession to the wto will require some adjustments in the area of steel imports to the eu, so that there is a legal framework and no disadvantages for the european economy. the eu will also benefit from more liberal market access to the russian market and the competitiveness of the eu steel sector will be improved by the reduction of export duties.
in writing. − in addition to the existing partnership and cooperation agreement with russia, an agreement on trade in certain steel products from the russian federation was concluded in october 2001. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the system of import quotas for steel products. with russia's accession to the wto, the eu no longer has the right to apply these import quotas, as the multilateral trade arrangements apply, which regulate aspects such as tariffs, applicable trade defence measures, technical standards, specific customs clearance procedures, etc. the eu therefore intends to abolish the eu-russia steel agreement in order to comply with wto rules. in this case, i do not think the wto rules are useful. i voted against it in protest because of the expected impact on the european steel industry, for whose protection the eu has not taken appropriate measures.
in writing. − the russian federation became a member of the wto on 16 december 2011. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of goods. the eu now wants to abolish the eu-russia steel agreement in order to comply with wto rules. i do not think the wto rules are sufficient. the remaining barriers to trade and investment still need to be carefully monitored to protect the european steel industry, as no safeguard measures have yet been taken by the eu. i have voted against it on these grounds.
in writing. − there will always exist trade and investment barriers between the russian federation and the european union. the wto is the best advocate of a rules-based multilateral trading system. the accession of russia in the wto can benefit the eu and this is the focus of this report to which i fully agree. therefore i voted in favor of it. its adoption will improve the trade relationship between the russian federation and the european union to reach full compliance.
in writing. − the official journal of the european union is a daily printed product in all eu languages, which is considered the official publication of the eu. it consists of two linked series (l series 'regulations' and c series 'notices') and one supplementary series (s series 'notices of public contracts'). the c series also includes an electronic-only part, the ab1. ec documents appearing in the oj are published only electronically. i have abstained because the report does not make it clear what improvement could be achieved by amending the regulation.
in writing. − the "implied competence" theory is not used very often. on the other hand, the eu mainly uses the ordinary legislative procedure. the rapporteur states that there is no legal basis applicable (in the case of publications for the union) which provides for the use of a specific decision-making procedure. he therefore, suggested the use of the "flexibility clause" as in article 352 tfeu and therefore this report has to be supported. its adoption will improve the electronic version of the oj, as electronic versions of legal acts are not legally binding and will eliminate the paper versions of the oj.
in writing. − in general, there is a tendency in the eu towards centralisation and neglect of infrastructure etc. in rural areas, which is also manifested in the field of aviation, for example through the concentration on 'hub airports'. within the eu there are a large number of regional airports of varying sizes and with a variety of services, catchment markets and air transport services. the importance of regional airports and air services as transport hubs, which make a significant contribution to the smooth functioning of transport within the eu internal market and to the creation of a more efficient eu aviation area, is underestimated when they are disproportionately affected by eu legislation. i have taken this into account in my voting behaviour.
in writing. − european regional airports and the associated air services are of great importance for the creation of an efficient and optimally functioning eu transport network. the mobility of people who are increasingly travelling must be ensured. regional aviation can play a crucial role and it is important to ensure that mobility in the eu is not only for people in the metropolises but also for all citizens living in remote peripheries and rural communities outside these european capitals. these regions, which are often unfortunately neglected, should also benefit from the benefits of greater mobility. the benefits of tourism and better access to new markets and, consequently, to greater inflows of economic investment. i believe that by better integrating our regional airports into the overall transport network, we can drive the economy to further benefits for eu citizens. i have taken all these factors into account and considered them in my vote.
in writing. - in time for the start of the holiday season, roaming charges will be reduced from july! for the internet, for example, 70 cents per megabyte, from 2014 50 cents. smartphones and tablets can then be used without fear of a cost avalanche. the plans for 'more competition in the mobile market' are particularly welcome: from 2014, customers can choose the cheapest provider and book roaming services separately! and even with a foreign supplier! each time you cross a border, your phone automatically switches to the network of the carrier you've chosen. the number will remain the same. roaming charges are the only area in the eu where there is a cost simply by crossing the border! i think that the opening up of the labour market in eastern europe has led to wage and social dumping, and the single market has not always been all for the good! we have here at last a really sensible measure! that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − the rapporteur stresses the importance of limiting derogations from the pic-procedure because it is the role of the eu to ensure that the chemicals exported do not cause negative consequences, either to humans or to the environment, and therefore this report has to be supported. its adoption will improve the sharing of information on dangerous chemicals, including how to store, transport, use and dispose of these chemicals safely.
in writing. − the rapporteur argues that regulatory measures with scrutiny should become delegated acts when the existing legislation is adapted. it seems more appropriate to retain terminology which makes a clear distinction between implementing acts under article 291 tfeu and measures which, for a transitional period, are still covered by the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. specific provisions govern procedures with associated committees or joint committee meetings (rule 88a): the incorporation of the new rule 88a reflects the need to take account of cases in which the basic act was adopted under the procedure provided for in rule 50 or 51 of the rules of procedure. this new rule, which lays down the procedure to be followed in such cases, thus supplements the provisions of the preceding rules.
in writing. - the rome ii regulation determines the law applicable to non-contractual obligations - where more than one member state is involved. this includes, for example, product liability or culpa in contrahendo. in principle, the regulation provides that either the law of the state in which the damage occurs or the law of the state in which the injured person is habitually resident is to apply. but rome ii does not apply to cases relating to the protection of privacy and freedom of expression. the increased use of the internet has led to a number of cross-border situations. rome ii does not in principle constitute harmonisation of substantive law: the regulation contains conflict-of-law rules which make it possible to determine the applicable law. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to provide for the possibility of a review of the provisions of the directive in the light of the new provisions. this balance must be respected in the spirit of the principle of subsidiarity. i voted accordingly.
in writing. − this report, which focuses on trade developments in the mediterranean, provides a balanced and well-founded analysis of the current situation in the light of recent events in this region of the world. on the way to the euro-mediterranean free trade area, the new approach 'more for more' it advocates links political progress towards full democratisation with the liberalisation of economic and commercial sectors. i voted for the report because trade and investment are two strong pillars in the development of relations between the eu and the countries of the southern mediterranean. trade and investment are an effective response to the new challenges in this region and will contribute to economic and democratic progress in the countries concerned.
in writing. − the rapporteur stresses the necessity of appropriate political, social and environmental commitments by the third countries, dialogue among minorities, religious groups and political parties, promotion of local know-how, guaranteeing equivalent social, environmental and phytosanitary standards, and highlights the importance of compliance with international labour law. therefore, the role of civil society has to be taken into more consideration as an engine of democracy and economic prosperity. this report supports the creation of even deeper and more comprehensive free trade agreements and economic relations for the southern mediterranean area, the empowering pilot programmes for agricultural, rural and regional development, the empowering of education, especially for women, the use of eu money by smes in southern mediterranean countries and many more strategies. it had, therefore, to be supported.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion because it is very important to maintain the non-patentability of organic farming methods. our farmers and breeders must continue to have full access to the diversity of genetic resources of farm animals and crops. i therefore expressly oppose the patentability of biological processes for the breeding of plants or animals and of breeding material used in conventional breeding, and support the continued application by the eu of a comprehensive breeder's exception in its patent law for plant and animal breeding, which is valid throughout the eu. patenting such biologically essential processes would be unethical and would hinder innovation and progress, particularly in the field of breeding, and would be to the disadvantage of breeders.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i know from an earlier occasion that mr van rompuy refuses to come before because he thinks he has nothing to say because he has to ask the heads of government first. i am in full agreement with mr audy, however, because it might make sense for us to let mr van rompuy know what he is to say or how he can support the president in his speech. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think, mr president, that it would be good to ask mr van rompuy more often. the council is now holding such crucial discussions, and it would be good if mr van rompuy could come to parliament more often.
i have to say, madam president, the single market with its four fundamental freedoms has been in existence for 20 years now and has undoubtedly brought some benefits to the citizens of europe. to realise its full potential, the key is to identify and solve problems as closely as possible to the citizen. so sites like solvit are an important tool for that. the staff there work efficiently and quickly. unfortunately, the posts are often understaffed and it would be better to invest in staff here rather than setting up the next eu agency, which is a sponge, and of which eu citizens have very little conviction. the single market can certainly do many things, but it certainly cannot be the ultimate answer to the economic crisis, and certainly not if one ignores where the single market meets its limits. one example is the construction industry, which employs pseudo-independent workers from the east, who are held in austria and germany as wage slaves. according to the newspaper frankfurter allgemeine, frankfurt is considered the capital of bulgarian industry. according to the tax office, there are currently between 10 000 and 17 000 pseudo-independent workers in the hessian city. the dark figure is likely to be much higher. i'm sure that's a big advantage for the construction companies. the local worker is charged 35 eur per hour, while the selfemployed person is charged 10 eur per hour, which is usually very low. this cannot be the purpose of the internal market, which exploits fundamental freedoms to the detriment of both domestic firms and workers.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the economic crisis is now being felt throughout the european union. to get back on the path of growth, we must focus on the single market, the most important instrument. it should be a single market for citizens and businesses at the same time. synergies between national authorities should therefore be encouraged and they should show greater commitment to implement legislation properly and in time. the member states must meet their obligations and transparency and efficiency are urgently needed. the benefits must be clearly communicated to citizens and businesses. solvit is helping. i would like to thank mr busuttil for his excellent report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. under the eu-canada trade agreement, visa facilitation is undoubtedly another step towards strengthening long-standing relations based on common roots and values. although in principle high security standards can be expected in the case of canada, the visa scandals of recent years and the all too frequent confusion of visa-free travel with freedom of establishment, as evidenced by the 700% increase in serbian asylum applications, should be regarded as warning examples. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. however, particularly in sensitive areas of sovereignty such as the issue of visas, privatisation can open the door to manipulation. finally, in 2004, 2008, and 2010, countless cases of visa fraud were exposed by corrupt local officials. i therefore believe that the eu should be particularly sensitive in these areas and ensure the greatest possible security.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in principle, a comprehensive economic and trade agreement with canada is to be welcomed. i would like to come straight to the restriction of the visa regime. it should be left to each sovereign state to decide for whom it will grant travel facilities. the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the directive to cover the following categories of persons: i also think that canada's asylum policy is sensible, since it clearly distinguishes between applicants from democratic and non-democratic countries. because by definition, an asylum seeker can only be someone who comes from a country where he is persecuted, which is hardly true in democratic eu states. the eu should instead follow canada's example in asylum policy. canada has been and is a generous country of immigration. it is only when you have negative experiences with so-called tourists who then disappear, who take advantage of the hospitality for a fee and confuse it with a freedom of establishment, that i understand that there are also some reservations in canada about this form of immigration.
i have to say, madam president, we are dealing today with how to ensure security in the european union in the long term. that was the case in the last report, and that is also the objective here, indirectly. we can all hope for the strategies of commissioner cecilia malmström. if we cannot implement these strategies and at the same time implement criminal law throughout europe, then any initiative and all this strategy will be toothless. i am therefore in favour of doing everything possible to ensure that criminal law is also harmonised throughout europe - taking national traditions into account, of course, but nevertheless the aim must be to implement, through a harmonised criminal law, what we have developed in the field of security, from border protection to the fight against organised crime and cybercrime.
madam president, first of all, on behalf of our green shadow rapporteur marije cornelissen who cannot be here and who asked me to speak, let me thank the rapporteur and the other shadows in the committee on women’s rights and gender equality for a very good report, which i think will be helpful to you, mrs malmström, and others in the commission in promoting women’s rights in turkey, more than has been done up till now. legislation in turkey is rather good at several levels, but implementation is lacking, especially when it comes to domestic violence against women. for example, it is still a fact that two or three women are killed every day in turkey in the domestic area by their husbands or families. more has to be done there, in order to punish the person who was the perpetrator, but also family members who silently look on and do not speak out. one fact that also hinders women’s empowerment in turkey is the low employment rate of women: only 24% of women are employed. that has been a fact for a number of years, so that is an area where more investment is needed. i find it very important to have a national action plan to combat violence against women. other countries, for example spain, have shown over the last few years what can be done; that is something that i hope can be achieved. education for women is important. it has improved but not yet enough. i also think it would be important to open chapter 23.
in writing. to achieve the greatest possible level of public security is an important objective of european policy. the iss strategy is an essential prerequisite for effective crime prevention and also demonstrates the ability of the european institutions to identify important threat potentials and develop strategic options. however, their implementation requires a continuous effort, which requires above all a stronger involvement of the national safety authorities. the development of an effective internal security system cannot, however, be seen in isolation from the development of society in europe. social science research has repeatedly drawn attention, most recently through the groundbreaking work of richard wilkinson and kate picket, to the fact that a high level of social security leads to a lower crime rate. an eu strategy on internal security should therefore take account of this basic requirement and explicitly refer to it. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the present fiscal policy, for example, is counter to this very relationship by its measures which always involve a reduction in social benefits.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to ask commissioner hahn: what will happen to the research infrastructure? what is the plan to provide in the area of research infrastructure, particularly for small and mediumsized enterprises? the second question is to minister wammen: we have heard from president hollande that we urgently need a growth strategy. how will this affect the 2013 budget in concrete terms? what items in the 2013 budget do you envisage to put a concrete growth strategy on track? and what do you envisage for the multiannual framework programme up to 2020? what kind of growth infrastructure have you planned here? and what programmes do you want to fund in particular? the third point is that we must ensure that young entrepreneurs are given opportunities to gain experience in other countries of the european union, but also outside the european union. there is the erasmus for young entrepreneurs programme. will there be a significant increase here so that we have a chance to bring these young entrepreneurs to their suppliers and to their markets? finally, it is also important that we consider the definition of mid-caps, i.e. those export-intensive companies that operate internationally, and whether we could also support them with the globalisation fund.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. small and medium-sized enterprises account for over 90% of enterprises in the eu and create more than 80% of jobs. they are the backbone of our economy and in the wake of the economic crisis, access to sufficient capital is a particular problem. a recent study by the parliament shows that the existing funding instruments are not sufficiently targeted. the reason: insufficient differentiation between the different types of smes. smes in particular are not a homogeneous group, not only in terms of the number of employees and turnover. it is also about the stage at which a company is. a young, innovative entrepreneur who is just starting up his business has different needs than a traditional, classic family business. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. we must start here so that the motor of smes can grow accordingly.
in writing. for many years now, the european union has been committed - at least on paper - to promoting small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). in practice, however, smes still face bureaucratic obstacles. while corporations can afford experts to exploit any loophole, regulatory frenzy often slows down small businesses, costs a lot of time and money, and thus inhibits economic activity. the constantly tightening regulations of the basle banking committee in particular have been holding back the financial wind from the small and mediumsized enterprises with little capital for years now. in addition, the economic growth paralysed by the sovereign debt crisis is hurting enterprises. the business climate for smes has deteriorated in the context of the global economic downturn. access to conveyor belts remains easy for large companies, while medium-sized enterprises are almost relegated to the status of applicants. if 99% of european companies, which are also the largest employers, can only profit from 10 to 15% of european funds, it is high time to change the eu's system of subsidies for large corporations and multinational companies by renationalizing the subsidies. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all know that political pressure is unlikely to bring about the release of imprisoned opposition leader tymoshenko or democratic reforms in ukraine. and even if kiev's policy complies with brussels' demands, we run the risk that the people will not forget the interference from outside, from brussels itself, which the population perceives as humiliation. if the eu can now send a trial observer and doctors to ensure timoshenko's medical treatment, that is a clear compromise, and that makes the boycott of the european football championship questionable. the criminal trial of tymoshenko was, of course, certain, certainly marked by arbitrariness. however, we must ask ourselves whether it makes sense to jeopardise the somewhat viable relations with kiev as a whole. given the eu's short-sighted policy towards ukraine, we should not be surprised if the ukrainians turn even more away from europe and towards the russian alternative in the elections scheduled for october.
in writing. − the rapporteur amended the commission proposal such that, when new draft designs of euro coins are forwarded by the issuing member state to the commission for verification, the latter must inform the other member states and the european central bank of its findings within ten working days of such verification, to which i agree and therefore i supported this report with my vote.
in writing. - the eu is a very complex entity. the eu's security strategy would therefore need a very comprehensive approach if it were to ever be established. it is important to remember that the eu lost its own game when it opened its borders, opening the door to criminals in the truest sense of the word. the eu has become a precarious ground for all of us, over which it no longer seems to have any control. we don't live in a perfect world, and you can't always talk about everything. it is important to remember that security and justice are in the hands of the countries and that the eu is therefore intervening in the area of competence of the countries. when you compare, you see no identifiable added value between cooperation at eu level and cooperation between countries. it is also worth remembering that there are different legal systems (anglo-saxon or european) and that countries would be deprived of their right to exercise their rights because they would have to move to a single system. i cannot agree to that because of the things that have been said and that is why i voted against this proposal.
in writing. − the eu needs a comprehensive and coherent iss in order to tackle all forms of threats to freedom, security and justice for eu citizens, including mafias and growing organised crime. the iss must comply with the union’s fundamental rights obligations. from the institutional point of view, the parliament needs to be part of the process as regards policy guidance, implementation and evaluation of results. cooperation with national parliaments (idea of a ‘parliamentary policy cycle’) must be strengthened therefore i supported this report with my vote.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty and the abandoning of the pillar structure simplified the path to the development of eu criminal law in the context of the eu as an area of freedom, security and justice. the report highlights the principles of criminal law (principle of individual guilt, legal certainty, non retroactivity, ne bis in idem and presumption of innocence). moreover, judicial cooperation in criminal law is based on the principle of mutual recognition. to fully apply this principle, some flanking measures are needed to develop and legitimate ‘mutual trust’ – within an eu common criminal legal culture. among these measures are harmonisation of substantive criminal law (crimes and sanctions) and common uniform minimum standards of protection for suspects and defendants in criminal proceedings and therefore this report has to be supported, which i did by my vote in favour.
in writing. − a uniform level of consumer protection should be provided within the eu, in particular in terms of protection against unfair commercial practices, misleading advertising and abusive contractual clauses. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the lack of knowledge of the national language, the lack of knowledge or the imperative need to use new technologies with which the consumer concerned is not familiar also constitute a particular case for protection. protection must not only focus on economic interest but also cover other areas such as health and safety. in particular, there are still problems with enforcement in relation to breaches of information obligations and the right of withdrawal, particularly in cross-border online purchases. the financial sector remains problematic in its complexity. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the airport operator has not yet been able to demonstrate that it is able to comply with the conditions for the granting of the aid. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is able to benefit from the new rules. that is why i could not agree to the report.
in writing. − the rapporteur asks for strengthening of the rights of vulnerable consumers in what is considered an essential value in achieving the internal market; it is fundamental to define a framework to ensure the protection of consumers, above all in situations of sectoral or temporary vulnerability but with respect for their freedom and right to choose, and therefore this report has to be supported, which i did by my vote in favour. this report is focusing on the fact that vulnerability is greater in the financial sector, food, transport, the internet, liberalised markets and access to justice.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to comment on the idea of issuing 1 and 2 euro banknotes mentioned by mr martin. this idea would have been much more sensible years ago to strengthen the 1 and 2 euro coins, but unfortunately it was not taken into account. it would not be fair to the citizens to remove the one and two cent coins. the 1 cent was, in the old austrian currency, at least 10 pence, not much, but it had value. the abolition of these pennies would lead to an increase in the price of the goods on offer, which cannot and must not be attributed to the citizen, since it is assumed that prices will be rounded up. every citizen must save and turn every penny around twice so as not to waste it. it is not possible to accept this proposal if one is concerned about the welfare of the citizens, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. − the report specifies that member states shall indicate which type of coin (euro circulation coin, euro collector coin or euro commemorative coin) is to be destroyed, as this will directly affect the ceilings established in the provisions on issuance of commemorative euro circulation coins. specific mandatory provisions for the issuance of euro coins will avoid possible different practices among member states, to which i agree and therefore i supported this report with my vote. its adoption will improve transparency and legal certainty in this regard; the introduction of binding rules is necessary.
in writing. − although the single market has been in existence for 20 years, obstacles still remain. the single market indicator is designed to encourage member states to improve the quality and timeliness of the implementation of single market directives. for example, malta is praised in the final indicator for its timely implementation of the legislation. however, legislation alone does not guarantee the smooth functioning of the internal market. in this context, cross-border cooperation between public authorities is also important. the report calls for more stringent but realistic implementation and enforcement targets. business consultancies such as solvit and the european consumer centres are probably still not as well known as they should be or there are difficulties in determining their respective responsibilities. while a functioning internal market is important in principle, it is particularly in times of crisis that the focus should be on reducing bureaucratic obstacles. i am sorry to say that i cannot agree with the report because it has not been dealt with sufficiently.
in writing. - the single market can certainly do many things, but it certainly cannot be the ultimate answer to the economic crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the report also mentions the fact that the number of people who are employed in the construction industry is increasing, and that the number of people who are employed in the construction industry is increasing. frankfurt is now considered the capital of 'bulgarian industry'. according to the german tax office, there are currently between 10 000 and 17 000 pseudo-independent workers in the hessian city. the unknown figure is likely to be much higher. the cost advantages for the construction companies are great: a local worker would have to pay around 35 euros per hour, while a pseudo-independent worker in most cases gets away with a cheap 10 euros! this cannot be the purpose of the internal market! as long as the fundamental freedoms are exploited at the expense of domestic (sub) enterprises and workers, even an efficient internal market indicator will be useless! i voted against this report because it is often ignored in the eu.
in writing. − the current economic crisis in the european union has to be fought, and one important step is to focus on the most important instrument, namely the single market. synergies between national authorities have to be supported, legal provisions have to be implemented according to the rules and on time, and information has to be given in a more transparent way. solvit contributes to all of this.
in writing. the report focuses on the situation of women in turkey and on the concrete measures that should be taken to improve their situation. it addresses issues such as the education system for girls and the opportunities women have in the labour market and in political decision-making, as well as the violence faced by girls and women in parts of turkish society. i voted for the report because there is still a need to catch up in turkey in terms of gender equality.
in writing. - as with so many reforms in turkey, the reforms to increase women's rights seem to be mostly on paper. in rural society in particular, the (theoretical) will to reform is not met in practice. given the increasing islamization trends, it is not surprising that violence against women remains one of the most pressing problems in turkey. honor killings are still common. this attitude has also led to honour killings in the strongly islamic society that has emigrated to europe. given the long history of toleration of violence against women in european society, the lack of progress in this area is not surprising. at least in turkish society, violence against women is increasingly being discussed. the report calls on the turkish government to adopt a zero-tolerance policy on violence against women. since turkey's accession would not only undermine the eu's capacity to welcome new members, but also since ankara has consistently shown that it is not committed to european values, for example in the area of minority rights or freedom of the press, the only honest response is to halt the accession negotiations and start negotiations on a privileged partnership. i cannot therefore agree with the report.
in writing. − the legislative framework on women’s rights in turkey needs to be better supported and better implemented. the turkish government should enact laws and by-laws, and issue strategy papers, national action plans and protocols on important issues such as the prevention of violence against women, the schooling of girls and eradication of illiteracy among women, and increased women’s participation in the labour market. however, the transformation of legislation into practice has not been satisfactory until recently. furthermore, there has been a lack of cooperation between the turkish government and civil society in the area of women’s rights – which is especially regrettable since gender equality can be realised only through the coordinated efforts of society as a whole. therefore i supported this report with my vote because i believe and expect that the turkish government and its ministries should cooperate in the area of gender equality, bringing projects to life to give effect to the legislation on improving women’s standard of living. this change is still at a preliminary stage, which is why the report, while acknowledging the positive move, is careful in not prematurely absolving turkey from its past deficiencies.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to make a very brief reference to the statement you made yesterday to italy. i would like to express my solidarity and my closeness to the italian people, so hard hit by two serious events: the barbarous attack on the morvillo-falcone school in brindisi, where the young melissa bassi lost her life, and the strong earthquake that struck emilia-romagna, a land that is often visited and whose strength and tenacity are well known. the victims and their families need to know that we are with them, that the whole of europe is rallying around them and that we will unite. what does this have to do with the situation in europe? i think a great deal, because this unity, this solidarity which has been shown in italy itself and which we are showing here with italy, is something i would like to see in the face of this great disaster we have in europe, when i think of unemployment. i think we must do everything we can to ensure that this informal council and the subsequent formal council really have the courage to fight the disaster of unemployment, because we can prevent it and fight it vigorously, which we may not be able to do so easily in the event of an earthquake. but unemployment is not a punishment from god; it is man-made and preventable. we believe that the starting point must be to encourage investment again. we are at an all-time low in public investment. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. whether we extend the deadlines for achieving budgetary stability without jeopardising them, whether we use the mario monti golden rule - which i think is very sensible - that certain investments, especially in eu 2020 projects, are appropriately taken out of deficits: we must make investments possible in order to return to growth. of course we also need financial resources - the financial transaction tax, which we will discuss and decide on tomorrow; the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we also need the project bonds to a really adequate extent. we must give the european investment bank more money. we need to make better use of the structural funds. finally, we need something like eurobonds, because we also need to reduce the cost of borrowing. this is a long-term project, but it's important that we start now. all this does not compromise budgetary discipline. on the contrary, we have the opportunity to achieve budgetary discipline sooner if we achieve these measures for growth. if you ask me what is the general situation with budgetary discipline, i can only say that there is a six-pack. it's been decided in committee, the two-pack. if we have abstained in the committee, it is for one reason: we want to add something to the growth. we want growth and investment at the core. i hope that we can come together in this parliament to find a solution. let me conclude by saying something about greece: yes, it is a difficult situation and we must take account of every democratic decision in greece. but the greeks must know that they are deciding for themselves - with consequences for europe, of course - whether they want to stay in the eurozone or leave it. because it is clear that reforms are necessary in greece, perhaps even more so, and if you have a government that is ready to make these reforms, then you can also talk about the necessary relief, especially in the social field. we have long held, including in this house, that not everything the troika has proposed is socially just and acceptable. but first there must be a government that is committed to the reform programme in greece, that is prepared to make hard sacrifices. it is also possible to negotiate with this government to bring about the relief which will ultimately lead to the goal of balanced budgets in greece. it is said again and again: yes, the whole growth problem can lead to higher inflation, and that is social. what could be more antisocial than the unemployment we have? for our group, the most anti-social thing we have is unemployment, and we must fight it through growth and investment. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this greek crisis is a european crisis. it is an economic, a democratic, a political crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that means that we must act together and we must not let greece and especially the greek people down. what is needed now is not just simple growth, but a green investment pact. if greece has only 3% of solar energy and billions are being spent on oil and gas, that is something that can be used for jobs. another point is the loopholes in national tax systems. commissioner rehn has quite rightly said that two governments - my own, the austrian and the luxembourg - are blocking the reformed interest rate directive from being finally put into effect. that is, these two governments are supporting tax evasion and tax fraud. they side with tax evaders and tax cheats. i therefore call on these two governments to finally lift their blockade at the summit tomorrow.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, less than a week ago it was the international day against homophobia, and we celebrated here in the european parliament with a video message made by many of us here including some of the commissioners – ms reding and others – telling young people in europe especially that: ‘it gets better’. as a lesbian woman myself, and one who has lived through times when things were not, at least in some parts of this continent, as easy as they are now, i know how it is to live a life of fear, of being afraid of walking hand-in-hand with your loved person in the streets, or of kissing her or him goodbye at the train station. homophobia is about fear, as it states in our text. it is an irrational fear of, and an aversion to, lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, based on prejudice and similar to racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism and sexism. it is something that we should all condemn, and we should make sure that people do not have to be afraid of living their lives to the full, which includes a happy love life. much as things have improved in many parts of this continent, there is reason for serious concern. as has been mentioned, in some countries outside the eu – ukraine, russia and moldova, for example – there are people, sometimes in government and sometimes outside it, who try to put laws into practice that prohibit any kind of public discussion of homosexuality. visibility and public speeches are so important, especially for young people who are coming out and want to be open and out and proud of what they are. it is up to us here, at all levels of the european union, to speak out against homophobia, to condemn it clearly, to make strategies – to make a roadmap, ms reding – to fight homophobia and to pursue equal rights for lesbians and gays, in order to make sure that, as you advocated, homophobia is condemned on this continent, and is not something that any one of us supports.
question for the commissioner: mr rinaldi, like another italian, the chairman of the delegation for relations with the people's republic of china, mr rivellini, you are very much concerned with this question of trade. in light of what you've just said and how you assess it: do you think the timing and circumstances of the admission of the people's republic of china to the wto system were right? if you didn't believe that, what would you have thought was right?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the interparliamentary delegation to china has asked me to devote a little more attention to the energy transition in the people's republic. it is clear that in the current five-year plan the chinese are defining renewable energy - and not just photovoltaics - as a strategic growth industry and are taking massive measures to secure a technological lead, to establish industry in their own country and to enter the business massively through ownership and dumping issues. we know the problem, particularly in the field of renewable energies, that for a long time so-called european partners were allowed to own only 20% of joint ventures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the tragedy is that the european union is once again acting too late in a growth market, a market for the future, and that this will end up being the vote of the citizens who cannot understand it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. europe is pursuing the approach of building reciprocal partnerships aimed at strengthening economic growth. the commission has therefore called on china to further liberalise its trade and open up its markets. the implementation of these projects is considered inadequate in the report, as the investment conditions and access to the chinese market for european companies do not correspond to the advantages granted by the eu to chinese companies. therefore, an ambitious and balanced investment agreement between the eu and china needs to be negotiated in order to create a better environment for european investors in china. it is important to reduce the protective provisions for access to the chinese market and to ensure that china follows wto rules in order to promote a fair relationship between the eu and china.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is a fact that despite improved legislation the mass murders of trade unionists in colombia continue. reality and norms are at odds here. the number of trade unionists murdered was 49 in 2010. mr howitt said the figures for 2011 show no improvement. so we need an effective sustainability chapter. the free trade agreement states: "relevant international standards must be respected". what does that mean? it does not contain a precise list of ilo agreements. furthermore, unlike the agreement with south korea, there is no reference to fair and ethical trade. this is a painful lack, particularly because the structures of social dialogue and dialogue with civil society are completely absent. this means that we need a binding action plan to ensure that labour standards are respected.
mr president, i would like to reiterate what some colleagues have already said, which is that the human rights situation in colombia has not improved as it should have done. we have had, this year alone, 13 assassinations of human rights defenders, which is almost half as many again as in 2011. so we cannot really say that the situation is good. i am in favour of a dialogue and i do not mind having agreements with countries, but we really have to see what we can do as the european union to improve the human rights situation, specifically. what i am concerned about is that, according to a recent study by the german unions, in comparison with the eu-korea agreement this free trade agreement with colombia we are negotiating only makes recommendations on certain criteria and there are no obligations. for example, labour and environmental conventions only have to be implemented when there are enough resources. i would like to know from mr de gucht whether he is in favour of an action plan, which many people here are calling for, prior to ratification of the agreement.
question for the commissioner: i would like to ask mr klinz: the financial transaction tax is supposed to become the european union's own resources. do you think that some of these funds could also be used as a credit basis for the european stability mechanism, so that over time the guarantees given there could be reduced?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a co-founder of the intergroup tobin-tax in 1999 in this house, i can still remember how we were completely in the corner and were almost laughed at. the change in sentiment, that now the majority obviously recognises the need for the financial transaction tax, especially the commission, is very welcome. now it's about winning the battle for the heads. we have just seen in the arguments that 50 million is represented as revenue when in reality there is a potential of 60 billion. we must now prevent what we perceive as british propaganda from spreading in the public eye to continental europe. it's not true that it's massively harming those who have put money into pension funds. this can be countered, especially if pension funds pursue long-term investment strategies. what would be very important, of course, is that the money does not just flow into the eu budget, but actually benefits those who are suffering unfairly from the crisis, that it is invested in measures that actually promote growth. there are already studies that show that the alleged negative effect of the loss of economic power can be reversed, that economic growth can even develop from the financial transaction tax, and that all these arguments that we hear, which are controlled by the city of london, would be refuted.
question for the commissioner: madam president, you have just said that everything that would be in favour of the financial transaction tax is speculation, and then you yourself gave very speculative examples. i would like to know what you think, in the light of what you have said, of these investigations by the commission and of the commission's study, which very, very clearly states that, accidentally, far too little has been done to include the real economy in its dependence on the financial markets, that 95 per cent of companies are therefore not at all dependent on them for borrowing money and that it is very possible to turn a negative growth effect, of which we have spoken so far, into a positive one by making appropriate public investments to promote growth. is this speculation, or would you say that such a well-founded, broad-based study by the commission is justified and a strong argument?
mr president, the house! i have already advocated the introduction of such a financial transaction tax as a member of my national parliament, but always on two conditions: firstly, the simultaneous reduction of the membership contributions of the member states in the event that the revenue from the financial transaction tax remains as own resources of the eu, and secondly - and this is almost even more important to me - the question of effective regulation and supervision of the financial markets. the commission has not yet put forward any proposals in this respect. the financial transaction tax will not bring the financial pact under control unless we tighten up the rules and establish a supervision system which actually prevents short selling and controls the high-frequency market. the vague wording of article 17a is not likely to increase my confidence in the commission and the council. these terms leave open the question of who will manage these revenues. i therefore agree with mr klinz and mr giegold that there are exceptions which are not to be argued about, particularly as regards investment funds. the question of the management of these revenues remains unresolved, and there are no proposals for the regulation and supervision of financial markets. that is why i shall be voting against it today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a question about the procedure. i can see that this discussion must be carried out very quickly because there are so many verbal messages. i would still like to ask mr haglund a question. you then decided not to grant that question. i understand that, too. but i would ask that the officials in charge of you, before you refuse, ask you if you really want to refuse. that was a speech later. i think that is not the course of action we should take in this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the financial transaction tax is an instrument which makes it possible to distribute the burden of this crisis fairly in the future. we have an instrument which makes it possible for those who have so far refused to pay taxes, or have paid very little tax, namely the big corporations and the big banks, to have to pay taxes again. and we have a tool that also creates growth, which is where it is most needed: in the real economy and not in the financial economy. that is why i think this house will do the right thing in voting today. i would like to say that i am very dissatisfied with what is happening in the council. what is happening in the council at the moment is a scandal to me. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let us give mr cameron and his friends in the council the right answer today and let us vote in the european parliament for a financial transaction tax!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european parliament, in its report today, reaffirms its pioneering role in the introduction of a financial transaction tax. the european parliament, in its report, supports the commission's proposals and its pioneering role in implementing this idea. i would like to say, like my predecessor, that the council is currently blocking the introduction of a financial transaction tax at european level, and that is why the council is making the introduction of a financial transaction tax unrealistic at the moment. if only nine countries are in favour, the transaction tax can also become a disadvantage for the location. we want to end the blockade. we want to stick to the target. we regard the financial transaction tax as a regulatory measure and, because it is a regulatory measure, i have also tabled the amendment that financial transactions outside the stock exchange are taxed at a higher rate than those within the stock exchange. we want to increase the budgetary margin of manoeuvre of the european union through the financial transaction tax, so that we can strengthen growth, employment and investment throughout europe. i'm asking for your consent.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the time has come to speak clearly before the vote on the podimata report. the financial transaction tax is the way to go. it is the centrepiece of the exit strategy for the crisis. i am the third austrian to advocate the financial transaction tax en suite. high-risk, ill-conceived financial speculation has contributed to the enormous financial, economic and now social crisis, if it is not the source of the evil. banks need to be saved every day. the whole of europe has been plunged into a deep crisis. it is now, not some time in the distant future, that the moment has come to get the deranged financial sector to play its part. we pay taxes on everything: on labour, on energy. it is absurd that the financial transaction tax has not yet been introduced. i expect the financial transaction tax to bring greater stability to the financial markets, to reduce short-term speculation and, above all, to focus more on the real economy and to finance the real economy.
in writing. it has taken a long time for speculators to make their solidarity contribution to pay for the consequences of the crisis. because it was precisely these risky and disconnected transactions that led to the economic and financial crisis. the financial transaction tax is intended to curb these short-term speculations, which have no real economic value added. a large majority of eu citizens are rightly in favour of a financial transaction tax. in order to be efficient, the tax should be applied to the widest possible extent: this applies both to the nature of the business - speculation in currencies should also be covered - and to the number of member states. i hope that this will be widely accepted and that parliament will be able to take action against the various financial lobbies and places!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against this proposal today, although i am in principle in favour of such a tax. i am simply saying that without a simultaneous reduction in membership dues in the event that these funds are retained as own resources by the eu, and without the simultaneous introduction of financial market rules and strict supervision of financial markets, such a transaction tax makes little sense. it will ultimately be carried on the backs of the citizen. the citizen will have to pay for it. that's not enough. it is not a way of regulating financial markets, and it is not a way of preventing a future crisis, or of dealing with the present one. if we had drawn the right conclusions, namely that we should have introduced strict rules for the financial markets and indeed accompanied and enforced these rules with effective supervision, that would have made sense. unfortunately, that is not the case. the commission has, in my view, only done half its job. that is why i voted against this proposal today, despite my political conviction that such a tax can make sense.
in writing. − the purpose of this report is to implement more effectively and transpose into union law the recommendation of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) to amend the recovery plan for the endangered bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. at iccat meetings and in the review of the measures adopted to combat overfishing, it appeared that iccat was not sufficiently protective of bluefin tuna. i voted in favour of the report because only a strengthening of the measures to reduce fishing capacity and control measures, especially with regard to the conversion and placing in cages, can ensure further reduction of the fish stock.
in writing. − the eastern bluefin tuna fishery is the most heavily regulated fishery in the eu. but it seems that there is also a lot of trickery in this area. illegal fishing, false declarations and so on are a disgrace to the stocks of bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. as a contracting party to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), the eu is obliged to implement the amendments adopted in november 2010. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are complied with. that is why i abstained in the vote.
in writing. the new law does not provide for specific measures to protect endangered fish species. the red tuna has long been threatened by overfishing in the atlantic and the mediterranean. the eu as the main fisher should at least abide by the strict rules that already exist if stocks are to recover, but it does not seem to do so, there are still plenty of back doors. the report therefore falls short of all the scientific recommendations for the recovery of stocks, and i believe that stricter control of the fishing fleets and the associated industry is necessary. the report contains nothing more for me than a weak compromise which i cannot accept, which is why i abstained.
in writing. − the new legislation aims to introduce more stringent rules in order to ensure the recovery of bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. it provides for a reduction of the total allowable catch and the reinforcing of control measures. in november 2010, in paris, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) amended its multi-annual recovery plan for the eastern stock of bluefin tuna. as the eu is a contracting party to iccat, it is obliged to transpose those amendments into eu law. it is the commission’s proposal to that end that is the subject of the present report.
in writing. - oil tankers wrecked pose a major threat to the marine ecosystem. such cargo ships are frequently run aground or leak, resulting in a leakage of crude oil, depending on the amount of cargo. since there are few suitable means of controlling a resulting oil spill, it seems reasonable to equip tankers with double walls to prevent leakage in the event of a leak. i voted for the report because it should be a quick solution for the eu as a whole, because it would be important, above all for the environment, but also for the fisheries sector, to counteract the potential danger posed by oil tankers.
in writing. − the long-term economic damage caused by oil tanker accidents is immense and the consequences for our environment as a whole are incalculable. the regions directly affected are often threatened in their economic existence and cannot cope with the burdens on their own. billions of dollars of aid programmes will have to be financed and increased insurance premiums for tankers will be passed down the value chain to final prices. this in turn means that customers all over the world are paying for the financial consequences of tanker accidents. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own energy needs. an oil plague caused by an oil tanker accident is an ecological disaster and a tragedy for man and beast. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the oil spills. such a double-hull design protects the loading tanks in the event of a failure and thus reduces the risk of contamination. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. − the rapporteur recommends that the ep take account of the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of parliament, the council and the commission. the amendments proposed concern the conditions under which power is conferred on the commission to adopt delegated acts. the rapporteur considers that the commission should undertake proper consultations before it adopts a delegated act. i voted in favour of this report because if parliament delegates powers to the commission it is important that it is kept suitably informed and that the relevant documents are provided.
in writing. - fishing is a significant part of the european economy. the european union has a duty to ensure that the fishing opportunities it provides for are not exceeded. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the new protocol concluded between the eu and mozambique sets out the details of fishing quotas and levies, benefiting not only the european countries but also mozambique. for example, european ships are obliged to employ mozambican seamen. the taxes europe has to pay also serve to boost the mozambican economy. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that only agreements of the kind that benefit both partners can ensure that fishing quotas are respected.
in writing. - i welcome the significant changes highlighted in the report to improve control and fisheries policy action in the mozambican fishing zone. for me, the main thing is that the fisheries rights guaranteed in the indian ocean have a lasting positive economic impact on the country. the agreement with mozambique is also of strategic importance, as it ensures the continuity of the fishing zone of the european fleet in the indian ocean. given the increasing number of cases of piracy in the other more northern exclusive economic zones (eez), this approach could be an excellent alternative. the new protocol promotes responsible and sustainable fishing and a partnership based on respect for the fisheries-specific laws and regulations of the european union and mozambique. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. − i supported this report with my vote because i recognise the urgency of completing the agreement and consider the rapporteur’s proposal a positive one. the decision on the new protocol’s signing and its application will contribute to a better balance between eu payments and real eu fishing activity in the zone.
in writing. − the financial sector, as one of the main drivers of the financial crisis, which has received immense public support, is not contributing adequately to the costs of the crisis. in the last decade, short-term and highly speculative transactions have been the main drivers of growth. in particular, the change in the financial sector is characterised by a decoupling from the real economy. it is no longer a question of providing the real economy with the necessary financing, but of purely virtual financial operations which can have a devastating effect on market prices and economies. the financial transaction tax is designed to make dangerously speculative transactions with high leverage unattractive and thus also reduce the likelihood of future crises. the eu, the world's largest financial market, is now considering a financial transaction tax. in the long term, success will depend on adapting its impact to the globalisation of the financial sector through international agreements. if the eu is successful in preventing tax evasion and avoiding the migration of transactions to trading venues outside eu jurisdiction, i would support the introduction of a financial transaction tax. however, this cannot be used to introduce an eu tax through the back door, thereby sparing the union from austerity measures. the financial transaction tax must be paid exclusively to the national budget.
in writing. - it took a long time for speculators to make their solidarity contribution to pay for the consequences of the crisis. because it was precisely these risky and disconnected transactions that led to the economic and financial crisis. the financial transaction tax is intended to curb these short-term speculations, which have no real economic value added. a large majority of eu citizens are rightly in favour of a financial transaction tax. in order to be efficient, the tax should be applied to the widest possible extent: this applies both to the nature of the business - speculation in currencies should also be covered - and to the number of member states. i hope that this will be widely accepted and that parliament will be able to take action against the various financial lobbies and places. that is why i voted for the introduction of the financial transaction tax.
in writing. − this directive provides for the introduction of a financial transaction tax. the aims are to generate substantial revenue and to create a disincentive to highly leveraged and harmful speculative transactions. the tax covers all transactions by eu-resident financial institutions. the tax rates will be around 0.1% for shares and bonds and 0.01% for derivatives. the commission’s proposal includes no direct references to the management of the revenues.
in writing. − this ini has the purpose to bring out the need of a commercial eu-china balance. with the 12th chinese five-year plan (2011-2015), the central idea of which is that china’s growth is balanced out by an increase in domestic consumption and by sustainable development that could open up new opportunities for the european economy. it defines the trade barriers that cause the current unbalanced trade, as could be: limited access to chinese public procurement, the currency issue or trade barriers to market access.
in writing. − this report defines the detailed provisions governing the exercise by the european parliament, in the context of the fulfilment of its tasks, of the right to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration in the implementation of union law. therefore, i voted in favour of it. its adoption will offer a clearer and more logical structure compared to the one provided by the old decision.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the sudanese government has been fighting for the independence of sudan since the end of colonial rule. in addition to the major conflicts between the north and the south, there are constant armed conflicts between and within ethnic groups. minor conflicts over water and grazing rights, livestock theft, rape and kidnapping escalate all too easily in sudan. in this country, where generations have grown up without basic services and where violence is the only way to resolve conflicts, where the word given today is usually broken the next day, peace talks are certainly not going to be easy. even if the african union's special envoy succeeds in resuming peace talks, the military status in the border area will certainly remain a sticking point. even if a peaceful solution were to succeed, there remains a huge potential for conflict. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in the long term, the country's oil wealth must be used in the interests of a fair distribution of power and resources and the democratization process must be advanced. however, i believe that the eu support for this should also serve european interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the huge oil reserves in south sudan could play an important role in europe's oil supply in the future. the eu's assistance to south sudan must not ignore the problem of illegal immigration into the union. i therefore think that appropriate readmission agreements should be negotiated.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yes, it's good that north and south are meeting again for official negotiations, because as we know, poverty and misery know no borders. unfortunately, médecins sans frontières had to suspend its activities in north darfur, although it had been working there with great success since 1985. the resentment against western - let us say it clearly - christian charity is being irresponsibly carried out at the expense of its own people. radical islamism in the north, shaky administration in the south, proxy wars by so-called tribal warriors and ultimately the selfish interests of various states such as china in the exploitation of raw materials are the reasons why this tormented region cannot find peace. the conclusion is therefore clear and should be that europe must take an active and leading role in this region.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr gerbrandy, and also our shadow rapporteur, mr karl-heinz florenz, who, i think, has produced an excellent report. i would like to take a little trip back in time to see what factors have led to europe's great rise over the last few centuries, because we want to continue to be very successful. so what were the core elements, so to speak? i think it was this famous increase in efficiency, including resource efficiency. around the year 1400, china required about a half acre of land to produce food for one person; europe required almost ten times that. nevertheless, we have succeeded in far outstripping these asian countries. what were the driving factors? the first is the competition between the different states and between the different systems here in europe. there is a certain small-scale structure and a fight of each against each. secondly, the knowledge we have developed here in europe, which is to approach things rationally and try to control nature, precisely by studying the laws of nature and applying them to the economy. thirdly, we have created in europe structures of ownership, a political institution of ownership that has also promoted self-responsibility - and self-responsibility in the sense that people feel responsible and contribute to the common good with their possessions, so to speak. fourthly, incentives, and here prices were the main incentives. the proposal now on the table is aimed mainly at this structure of prices, this price system, and it seeks to internalize external costs through various measures. that makes sense. but this is also the difficult part, because we need a general political, sociopolitical consensus if we are to artificially influence prices which are set by the market. i think that's the big challenge. fifthly, of course, regulations, and here i must say: it makes sense to create regulations. but at european level, i think we should focus primarily on implementation and not too much on new regulations, so that we do not go overboard with too much red tape.
question for the commissioner: mr president, mr krahmer said that we were printing too much money and that is why prices were rising. we know that the federal reserve, the fed, has been printing money with the various quantitative easing programs, one, two and three. we also know that the european central bank is only committed to the inflation target. does mr krahmer have information that the european central bank is printing too many euros?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the current and, above all, ongoing structural crisis shows that we in europe need to look for new opportunities for sustainable economic growth. the open economy is growing and new, particularly sustainable jobs can be created by a resource-efficient economy. we need to address some areas that have been overlooked, such as the growing world population and the associated increase in food consumption, and the sustainable management of our ecosystems. i therefore support the calls for a sustainable and resource-efficient approach to food consumption, raw materials and materials. it should also be noted that this requires control and transparency, but also detailed explanations to our citizens. our citizens are ready to make an active contribution. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to thank my colleague for his report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the ecr is conservative, and that is why i cannot understand why they are not prepared to preserve what is most important to us all, namely clean water, healthy soil and clean air. i do not understand why they cannot be involved in this area, because i believe that our main task here is to assume a dual responsibility: responsibility for the generation living here now, but also for future generations. we can only do this if we are careful about how we use these energies, these resources, these raw materials. i believe that this energy roadmap shows a great many opportunities where we can not only increase economic performance in europe, as in the title today, but also ensure a sustainable quality of life. what i do not understand at all is this panic fear of taxes which is being raised again and again. i think taxes are a contribution to the quality of life. the word 'steuern' is used in the german language to mean 'to direct'. i am therefore able to use taxation to achieve our political objective of improving the quality of life for people throughout europe and in all regions. taxes are tools that i can use to help put money where it is needed. we have heard this before today: the polluter pays principle. but taxes must meet the requirement of being fair. this is a very important factor for me and i think we have to thank mr gerbrandy for this report today. it is forward-looking and i hope that it will be supported by a large majority in all respects as far as possible.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 24 may 2012 at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the 'opportunities for young people' initiative by pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000106/2012 b7-0113/2012) (2012/2617 (((rsp)).
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. it is not just words: europe is facing a lost generation if we do not act now. we must not turn a blind eye to the fact that people who have been unsuccessfully looking for a job for a long time and planning their lives are losing their vision and hope for the future. this is happening to those young people who are the future of the competitiveness of this continent. i therefore welcome the commission's initiative. i am particularly grateful to the rapporteur for the very concise and precise way in which she has presented the main points. i would like to highlight one that also highlights the fact that there is no time to lose. whether or not there is an economic recovery, structural reforms are necessary, because the aim is to establish the successful models of this continent, such as dual training. and that takes time, of course. the statistics speak a clear language. i would like to emphasize the youth guarantee, but also the permanent qualification of people in lifelong learning, which begins in youth, where the white and green economy in particular represents a hope for the future and a potential. we in politics bear responsibility. let us therefore create visible added value for our citizens by taking political action now. it is a priority project: europe must act. we must act. the commission must act. but the member states also have to act with their social partners, now!
question for the commissioner: the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would also like to thank mrs göncz, because of course the priority is to ensure that young unemployed people are able to re-enter the labour market. do you think it is possible and worthwhile to develop programmes at european level for young entrepreneurs who are specifically trained and then committed to taking young colleagues into their own business?
i have to say, madam president, i have rarely heard the members of this house speak so unitedly and with such passion on a subject. 7.5 million young people between 15 and 24 years of age who are unemployed - that is a shocking figure. we are not only risking a lost generation, we already have one in some european countries. the commission has failed here, but so have all the states which do not give priority to combating youth unemployment. youth unemployment is not a national but a european problem, and we must therefore act immediately, but also in the medium and long term. the necessary means are available. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the esf. further resources from the european globalisation adjustment fund could be redirected to finance and develop a training and employment guarantee for young people. you heard the man. today our hearts are full, and an overwhelming majority of the members of the european parliament here support the effective measures you are taking.
i have to say, madam president, the increase in youth unemployment is the basic scandal of our time. youth unemployment is not only a lack of a basis for employment, it also destroys development opportunities. but above all it undermines the credibility of the democratic system. it is therefore cynical, as the neoclassical doctrine of the prayer-mill approach puts it, to make young people the sole responsibility for finding jobs. the ever-increasing youth unemployment must be tackled by political means and placed at the centre of european policy. it is surprising that so little attention has been paid to this problem so far, and it is also hard to understand why there are not considerable funds in the european funds which could be called up at any time. the importance of the problem also requires additional resources. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is financially viable and, in any case, cheaper than unemployment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i appreciate your presidency and know that you always stand for transparency. i'm not sure how you do it, but i'm not sure how you do it, but i'm not sure how you do it, but i'm not sure how you do it, but i'm not sure how you do it, but i'm not sure how you do it, but i'm not sure how you do it. i was present at the beginning of the debate, for example, and i spoke as soon as the report was called, but i did not get to the point. others have come forward. could you explain your principle in order to respect the principle of transparency?
question for the commissioner: mr. taylor, there's a demonstration outside for equal pay for women and men. do you think that with the appropriate financial support, for example, the promotion of young female entrepreneurs could be used to create new jobs and jobs? what do you think of programmes to promote young, talented women entrepreneurs?
in writing. − the european union's macrofinancial assistance was introduced in 1990 to provide financial assistance to third countries experiencing short-term balance of payments difficulties. until now, macrofinancial assistance has been granted on the basis of individual decisions. this means that each grant operation requires its own legislative decision. since 2003, the european parliament has consistently called for a framework regulation to ensure that microfinance assistance is handled in a uniform manner. i voted in favour of the report because a formal legal instrument for macrofinancial assistance to third countries increases the effectiveness of the macrofinancial assistance instrument by streamlining the decision-making procedure. the proposed regulation also aims to formalise, update and clarify the basic rules applicable to macrofinancial assistance.
in writing. − in 1990, eu macrofinancial assistance was introduced to help third countries in short-term balance of payments difficulties. decisions were taken, inter alia, for ukraine and the republic of moldova in accordance with the treaty of lisbon. the legal basis is now being discussed. the present proposal would do away with consultation of national parliaments and would also lose transparency. the eu's aid is often opaque and lacks control. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the european union is also committed to the principle of non-discrimination, and the european union is committed to the principle of non-discrimination. however, he persistently conceals that these abuses have already existed under prime minister yulia tymoshenko. the present situation is only the other side of the same coin. this is something that should always be taken into account when assessing the situation in ukraine. unfortunately, the resolution does not do that. mrs tymoshenko is being made into an innocent slave, who is now being treated unjustly in every respect by her evil adversaries. while this assessment of bias is hard to beat, the question arises as to how the eu seems to know in detail that all the procedures under way are all being abused for political purposes. the indiscriminate criticism of the eu makes it relatively easy for the kiev government to wipe off the table all these definitely justified accusations, all with the hint of the complete bias for tymoshenko. the eu is once again making a ridiculous threat to boycott the european football championship. the fact that sport is being used for political trench warfare is absolutely worrying and to be condemned. the best thing for the eu to do here, as in many other cases, is to simply stay out of it.
in writing. − the austrian constitution provides that all persons shall be treated equally unless there are grounds for unequal treatment. everyone has the right to live as he sees fit. but it is also important to ensure that no group is favored. and with all the lobbying that's done for lgbt people today, you get the impression that they're a privileged group. while the free exercise of sexuality is an important right, there are certain circumstances that must be considered. same-sex couples can't have children. children are born of a relationship between a man and a woman. it is therefore totally unnatural and certainly not in the best interests of the child to give homosexuals the right to adopt. we should think more about giving more support to families, especially in view of the demographic situation in europe. but i also want to make it clear that i strongly condemn violent attacks and the like against peaceful demonstrations by lgbt people. i am opposed to the demand for the right of gays to marry for the reasons i have mentioned, and i therefore voted against this motion.
in writing. − the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, and must uphold and promote these values in its relations with the wider world. i supported with my vote the joint motion for a resolution, believing that its adoption will contribute to the freedom of expression of homosexuality and transgenderism.
in writing. − it is a fact that the world population is growing and natural resources are decreasing at the same time. to counter this, there needs to be a rethinking of all sectors to ensure that people can continue to be fed. the use of raw materials should also be brought under control. sustainability and resource efficiency are the keywords with which the eu wants to take a leading role in the world. i abstained because i do not agree with the rapporteur in that i very much believe that the fine-tuning should also take place now. if not, we could be faced with the problem that scenarios that have not been considered are coming to pass and that we cannot react to them.
in writing. - young people are an important pillar of society. their training and further education should be a key concern for each member state, because young people are the future of every country. the crisis has not alone led to a rapid rise in youth unemployment - a situation which is not sustainable in the long term. young people must be given the opportunity to establish themselves professionally. the basic prerequisite for this is a good education. to ensure this, the number of school leavers must be significantly reduced. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations. in addition, young people already classified as longterm unemployed suffer from social exclusion, making it much more difficult to re-enter the labour market. it should also be borne in mind that the social systems in force in the european countries will only be maintained as long as the generational contract can be fulfilled. i voted for the resolution because it is our duty to enable young people to enter the working world without any ifs and buts. i also believe that it is essential to ensure a high level of education and training within the eu in order to make young people competitive and to keep them in line.
in writing. − i supported with my vote this motion for resolution because i believe that its adoption will promote youth access to the labour market and strengthen trainee, internship and apprenticeship status in its 2010 resolution that called upon the european commission, the member states, the social partners and other stakeholders.
in writing. − although eu legislation on gender equality has been in place since 1975, the gender pay gap persists. i support the rapporteur's call for the commission to amend the directive so that legislation can be made more effective and this unjust discrimination against women can be adequately addressed. equal rights must be fought for, and unfair conditions and treatment must not be tolerated. it is the only way to guarantee progress in social development.
in writing. - equal pay for equal work should be a matter of course. unfortunately, in some cases, this is still not the case. you have to turn this on and turn this off. the present report, while taking up this point, unfortunately mixes up different facts. the fact that women still earn less than men is generally not due to discrimination but to the fact that they are much more likely to be part-time or less likely to be in management positions. the latter is quite natural, since a young mother cannot logically devote herself to her career plans as intensely as a man. nature has clearly assigned roles here, which cannot be changed by leftist ideology or humanism. if you demand equal pay for equal work, you must of course accept different pay for different work. whether male or female, those who take on more responsibility or who accomplish more must be able to earn more. the report completely ignores this logic and its approaches, such as gender mainstreaming, call for deliberate inequality between the sexes, so i voted against it.
in writing. − the rapporteur underlines the principle that men and women should receive equal pay for equal work. this principle has been enshrined in the treaties of the european community since 1957. this report reiterates the recommendations adopted by the european parliament in 2008. equal pay for equal work is the concept that individuals doing the same work should receive the same remuneration. in america, for example, the law states that ‘employers may not pay unequal wages to men and women who perform jobs that require substantially equal skill, effort and responsibility, and that are performed under similar working conditions within the same establishment’. it is most commonly used in a context of sexual discrimination, as equal pay for women. equal pay does not simply relate to basic salary but also to the full range of benefits, non-salary payments, bonuses and allowances that are paid. i supported this report with my vote because its adoption will be vital to prevent poverty and social exclusion of women of all age groups.
in writing. − a number of eu agreements have been concluded with the swiss confederation, including on the free movement of persons. at the beginning of may 2012, the swiss federal council decided, by reference to a safeguard clause contained in the agreement, to introduce, under certain conditions, numerical limits on residence permits for nationals of poland, lithuania, latvia, estonia, slovenia, slovakia, the czech republic and hungary. the eu argues, however, that the clause in question is not applicable in the present case because it is disproportionate and considers it to be discriminatory and unlawful. the decision on residence rights in one's own country is, however, one of the most intrinsic sovereign rights of a state. the prevailing tendency to impose a policy of open doors on brussels must be stopped. this case is a very good example of how the eu is trying to interfere more and more in national affairs. i therefore naturally rejected this resolution.
question for the commissioner: mr wałęsa, i have been listening to you with great interest and i have noticed something which i would like to ask you about in more detail because we have been discussing it again and again and this point has never been settled. you said that the european parliament should be involved in the negotiations with japan. there are two different views on this: one doctrine says we shouldn't do that, but we should finally judge the outcome and say yes or no. the other doctrine says we should be all in. do you think it would be better if colleagues from the european parliament were directly involved in the negotiations? or how do you think the european parliament should get involved?
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the european union and japan enjoy good bilateral relations. an important element of these relations is the already strong trade links between the two partners. i am absolutely of the opinion that these should continue to be developed and deepened. in the context of global stagnation, trade can play a very important role in helping countries and regions to grow and thus increase prosperity for citizens on both sides. however, increased trade relations must not be tolerated at any cost. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. responsibility towards european citizens, towards small and mediumsized enterprises, but above all towards the environment. the basic precondition for the opening of trade negotiations must be a careful weighing of the advantages and disadvantages, but above all a respectful attitude on an equal footing. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on this matter. the agricultural sector is of particular importance to me. i have a few questions about food safety, geographical indications and organic products. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. in the last few days, the commission has been able to take stock of the situation in the community and to make a number of proposals to the council. i would also like to know what is happening with the geographical indication of foodstuffs. how did the initial talks go, or what would be your assessment of them? the third question concerns the area of organically produced agricultural products: how can we envisage the mutual recognition of organic products in this area, and what specific efforts is the commission making in this area? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. commissioner, make sure that the conditions are fair, that the timeframe is reasonable!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to draw attention to the serious violations of trade union rights in turkey, namely the right to strike. on the night of 31 may, the ruling islamic conservative party, the akp, passed a law banning strikes and lockouts in the aviation sector. when this bill became known, hundreds of turkish airlines union employees went on strike, causing about 200 flights to be cancelled. 305 employees were subsequently dismissed from turkish airlines. the procedure for dismissals according to the trade union is not acceptable either. the employees were fired by text message. another 150 employees are to be dismissed. in turkey, the right to strike is severely restricted and subject to various conditions. solidarity, general and strolling strikes, as well as strikes for non-compliance with collective agreements, are generally prohibited. we must draw attention to the dramatic situation of trade union rights in turkey, a country which hopes to join the european union, and send a strong message to turkey that the copenhagen criteria must also be respected.
that concludes this item.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr ricardo cortés lastra, on behalf of the committee on development, on a new form of development cooperation between the european union and latin america (a7-0159/2012) (2011/2286 (ini)).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the national economies of latin america were less affected by the economic crisis than other parts of the world. in fact, economic growth is expected to reach 4.5% in 2012. yet, despite all the growth forecasts, some 180 million people in the region live below the poverty line, and 10 countries remain among the 15 most unequal countries in the world, according to the un. latin america is also one of the most violent regions in the world, with 25 murders per 100,000 inhabitants. the eu is not only the largest donor of development aid, but also the largest investor and second largest trading partner. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. key areas will be health, education, but also small and medium-sized enterprises. this will help to provide self-help and enable the eu to use its influence in the region in a positive and sustainable way.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 12 june, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the report by marco scurria, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the recognition and promotion of crossborder volunteering activities in the eu (2011/2293 (ini)) (a7-0166/2012).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr scurria, for his report, because he attaches importance to voluntary work and really gets the most out of the commission's report. the promotion of voluntary work through tax incentives, through administrative facilitations, is one of the key requirements to be met by the eu member states. the european union has a long tradition of providing young people with the skills they need to succeed in the labour market. let us consider the social reach of volunteering. in this sense, i see volunteering as a glue that holds society together.
- i'm not sure. i should like to inform you that as president of the commission i am bound by the rule that i must take account of the strength of the groups. those are the rules. i'm taking in a lot more speakers anyway. but i am also trying to arrange the strength of the groups and the wording in the way that i have been instructed to do.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. 100 million european citizens are volunteers and account for almost 5% of the european gross domestic product. however, many volunteers are often exposed to severe physical and psychological stress during their work, and this needs to be taken into account by appropriate social protection. however, if you want to get involved across borders, as was the case with the recent earthquakes in liguria, you should not have to face unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles. acquired skills must be recognised throughout the eu and documented. a european qualification passport would be a useful idea in this context. however, cooperation should be based primarily on the exchange of best practice. austria and germany, for example, are exemplary in their volunteer firefighting. these structures can also be exported to other parts of europe and play a central role in future disaster management.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 12 june, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the report by mr ivailo kalfin, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the protection of critical information infrastructures results and next steps: the road to global network security (2011/2284 (ini)) (a7-0167/2012).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not mr president, some people have said that i would have a hard time today with a social democratic government and presidency. mr. secretary, you've made it very easy for me. everything you've said has met with resistance. we had a detailed discussion yesterday in the group of the european people's party and we said unanimously that what you have done is strongly opposed by us. we reject the position you have expressed. (applause from the centre) the socialist group is clearly of the opinion that you have taken the wrong road, that you have taken a dangerous road. you have the experience of denmark. have you learned nothing from your previous government, from how the government came under pressure from the right-wing populists? you should have learned that's not the way to go! i'm afraid you haven't learned anything. can i get back to the cause? there was the supposed mass influx of tunisians into europe. that was the origin of the debate. berlusconi and sarkozy agreed: "we have to close the borders". as if that would solve the problem! where are the millions of refugees in europe that you have to deal with? there 's something else . the europeans have intervened in libya, an intervention which i fully support. millions of refugees have come from libya to tunisia. because there are still many libyan refugees in tunisia, do we have to close our borders or ease the closure of the borders? is this our response to the arab spring? that is the wrong answer, mr minister, the absolutely wrong answer! (applause from the centre) yes, there is a problem, a problem on the border between turkey and greece. and then we'll close our borders because there's no other way to solve the problem? is there no one left in this europe who says: 'we must show solidarity, we must help to make this border secure against illegal refugees'? is it the custom in europe to respond to populist demands? and the danish presidency is in on this? that, i think, is the scandal. this is not acceptable to us! (applause from the centre) you still have the nerve to come here and tell us that we should be grateful to you for preventing something worse? is that your idea of the european parliament, that we are going to crawl to the floor and say to you: 'thank you, mr president, you have prevented the creation of permanent new frontiers in europe'? i know why the home affairs council has shut down parliament. because this institution, together with the commission - and i join in the thanks to the commissioner - has always been the institution that has defended freedom of movement, this european achievement! we have defended this in many debates. and because you know that there is resistance here to closing borders again for no reason, you have deprived parliament of its right to say anything about the evaluation. if you listen to some interior ministers - and i am thinking of a very specific one - you know where the wind is coming from and you know why you want it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is what is behind it, and that is what we reject. the socialist group, like the other groups in this house, is unanimous and we will use all the means - political and legal - to fight what you are starting. you are opening the door to right-wing populism in europe. i am sorry that it is the danish presidency that is opening this door. (applause from the centre)
in writing. for months now, the european parliament has been negotiating the so-called schengen package under the ordinary legislative procedure. the ministers of the interior have now, by surprise, changed the legal basis (article 70) and aim to transfer responsibility to the nation states. this question, which may seem technical, is the fundamental question of all european politics: should the community and its institutions decide on the basis of community principles or should national governments decide on the basis of positions more or less agreed upon jointly - that is, at community or intergovernmental level? since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament has become increasingly a body that transcends national interests. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. the european interior ministers are clearly afraid that parliament is playing its role as guardian of european fundamental rights.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by jean-paul gauzès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the strengthening of the surveillance of economic and budgetary positions of member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability in the euro area (com (2011) 0819 - c7-0449/2011 - 2011/0385 (cod)) (a7-0172/2012) and the report by elisa ferreira, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common provisions for monitoring and evaluating the general government budget outlook and for ensuring the correction of excessive deficits of member states in the euro area (com (2011) 0821 - c7-0821 - 2011/0443 (cod)) (com (2011) 0817 - c7-0386/2011 (cod)) (a7-037/2012).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i have come forward as the group chairman for this debate because i want to stress the importance of this legislation. it is one of the most important pieces of legislation we have, and i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, mrs ferreira and mr gauzès, for their work, and also the colleagues from the other groups who have helped us. i am not quite sure what mrs thyssen meant, but i hope at least that we can really agree on something so that we have a clear majority in the vote tomorrow, as we did in the committee. we are in favour of this compromise. we have one request, and i'm about to grant it. we are in favour of this compromise and it would be very important for this parliament to reach a unanimous decision. because with this legislation - we must also say this to our heads of government and our citizens - we are also changing the conditions for economic policy and economic governance in europe. we have already done much more, we do not really need the fiscal pact, because we are creating substantial new conditions through the six-pack and now the two-pack, if we take them together. if we were critical of some things in the six pack, we are all the more critical of the two pack because it has been possible to correct and supplement some things, so that we really have a total package that goes far beyond what we have had so far. there are two crucial points i would like to draw attention to. i agree with mrs thyssen that we must get rid of the debt. but the only way to get out of debt is to lower interest rates. we know very well - spain has shown - that we will not get out of debt if we continue to have this high interest rate burden. the idea of the debt-repayment fund is therefore very correct. many of us - including me - feel that we have to move on. we must move towards eurobonds, of course with the fiscal conditions we are creating, especially with the six-pack and the two-pack. are we now supporting the debt-repayment fund compromise? i hear a lot about the epp and i hope that this is not made true, that it is now rejected again and that we can really keep this compromise. the second is a special request from mr monti. and we should not leave mario monti in the lurch when it comes to investments, to very specific, very limited, well-defined growth investments. because we still have the situation that we have eu 2020 targets, but often we don't have the investment. it is not necessarily at the national level anymore, but often at the local level. it would therefore be very important to give these investments priority for growth, because this too is a major contribution to reducing debt when we have growth. i hope that the vote tomorrow will be broadly favourable, broadly consensual.
ladies and gentlemen, the stability and growth pact, the european semester, the sixpack, the twopack are all part of the same package. they complement each other, they correct past mistakes, and they deepen and strengthen the commission. the gauzès report is the first important step towards a european insolvency law. the european insolvency law is a prerequisite for fiscal union. fiscal union is a prerequisite for the implementation of political union. if we do not europeanise budgetary policy, we cannot have a monetary policy geared to stability. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. it is a step in the right direction, but it always takes a relatively long time for us. let's keep going in that direction. the commission has already taken a number of measures to deal with the problem of the debt. but one thing leads to another. one is to create confidence for the necessary investment and the repurchase of government bonds. today is an important step, but it cannot be the last.
in the face of the ongoing structural crisis, the sixpack was adopted last year to give a clear signal to those member states that are exceeding the budget deficit and debt ceilings. the 'two-pack' is now about 'taking the lead' in those euro-zone member states that are massively affected or threatened with severe financial problems, thus enabling them to return to a normal situation and protecting the other member states from potential negative effects. since 2009, it has been impossible to reduce the unemployment rate because of the far too low recovery in the labour market, on the contrary, youth unemployment has risen sharply in many member states and is already above 50% in spain, for example. the need for action is therefore urgent.
in writing. - the credit crunch has put many small and medium-sized enterprises in serious difficulties. the business model of the comunidad valenciana is characterised by a high proportion of small and medium-sized enterprises, mainly specialising in the production of furniture, shoes, textiles, ceramics and toys. these enterprises are concentrated in the peripheral areas of a limited number of municipalities. the redundancies in the comunidad valenciana are the result of a radical change in the distribution of the footwear industry, with third countries - china and india in particular, but also vietnam and indonesia - increasingly dominating the world footwear trade. in general, most of the shoe industry's downstream processes are being moved to cheaper non-eu countries, leaving only the higher-value production steps, such as product design and marketing, in the eu. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the globalisation fund as all the criteria for mobilisation have been met.
in writing. - the commission has adopted a new proposal for the mobilisation of the egf in favour of spain. this is to help workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis to reintegrate into the labour market. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i am very much in favour of measures for european workers who lose their jobs as a result of the relocation of industries to low-wage countries! that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. − the footwear sector represents 26 % of the total employment in the region of comunidad valenciana and is therefore an important contributor to the local economy which is dominated by small and medium-sized enterprises in traditional sectors like textiles, shoes and ceramics. the adoption of this report will contribute to the additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade and assist in their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. − the rapporteur considers the quick release of financial assistance through the eu solidarity fund (eusf) to be of great importance for those affected by natural catastrophes. they greatly deplore, for the specific case addressed by draft amending budget no 2/2012, that the other branch of the budgetary authority has awaited eight weeks before taking its position. the acceleration and mobilisation of the eusf are in the focus of this report to which i fully agree. its adoption will improve the quick release of financial assistance through the eu solidarity fund (eusf) for those affected by natural catastrophes.
in writing. −in october 2011, torrential rains caused severe flooding and landslides in liguria and parts of tuscany. rivers burst their banks, flooding the narrow streets of villages and towns, collapsing houses and bridges, blocking road and rail links. the port of vernazza, a town of almost a thousand inhabitants in the cinque terre area, which is particularly popular with tourists, was completely destroyed. debris, mud, and water flooded the entire harbor area. in many places, electricity, gas and water supplies were also cut off. the damage is estimated at over 90 million euros. i voted to use the solidarity fund to help repair the damage.
in writing. − following the floods that hit the liguria and tuscany regions in october 2011, causing severe damage to homes, businesses and agriculture, and disrupting important transport links and basic public infrastructure networks, italy has applied for assistance from the solidarity fund. the floods have caused serious damage (estimated direct damage of eur 722.5 million) and are a natural disaster within the meaning of the solidarity fund, so i voted in favour of the present report.
in writing. − this report calls on the european parliament to approve the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to provide the sum of eur 18 061 682 in commitment and payment appropriations to assist italy hit by severe flooding in 2011 and therefore has to be supported.
in writing. − the egf is there to help workers suffering from the consequences related to major changes in world trade patterns and to assist them in re-integration into the labour market – the commission has made this first request to enter specific commitment and payment appropriations in this year’s budget (acc to iia of 17 may 2006, p. 28), in order to cover technical assistance, i.e. to cover monitoring, information, administrative and technical support and evaluation.
in writing. - the eu has concluded many agreements and will conclude some more. some of these are desirable, others are, in my view, to be rejected outright. the agreement with latin america is not perfect, as there are some points that could have been changed, but overall the agreement is to be supported. the eu is thus contributing to the integration of latin america. the agreement can, for example, create jobs, combat poverty, promote political, economic and trade integration in the region and much more. however, it is also important to highlight the lack of a comprehensive eu policy and regional approach for latin america to support south-south cooperation (ssc) and the lack of clear guidelines for eu policy towards ssc and interregional association, which are intended to create autonomous areas for coordination and political cooperation between latin american countries without involving europe or north america. even with some experts predicting that china will overtake the eu in trade with latin america by 2015, this is something that needs to be counteracted. we can take a lot from this agreement. that is why i voted in favour of this agreement in its entirety.
in writing. − fostering of social cohesion, strengthening of regional integration, the fight against poverty and the fair distribution of wealth in latin america are the main focus of this report with which i fully agree. its adoption will help eradicate poverty and strengthen the democratic system and the defence of human rights in latin america.
in writing. − volunteering has a long tradition in many eu countries. volunteers make an invaluable contribution to major sporting events, just as volunteer firefighters make an immense contribution to firefighting. and in the social field, much of the work we do would not be possible without the countless hours that volunteers put in. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-funded voluntary service in the member states, in particular through the european voluntary service. the creation of a 'european voluntary humanitarian aid corps' and the development of a 'european qualifications passport' will also probably only bring new bureaucracy and immense costs, which is why i voted against it. much more important would be to address the negative impact of the working time directive on voluntary activities, for example in the fire service, which according to the case law of the ecj, counted both standby and work as working time, so that voluntary members of many voluntary organisations could legally return to their service missions.
in writing. − the adoption of this report will promote the growth of volunteering activities, including the recognition of the rights of volunteers, will ensure quality, protection and equal access for everyone and will devote more attention to this sector in their future policy-making, programmes and financing.
in writing. − the road to global network security is certainly an area that needs a lot of discussion to arrive at a sensible solution. it is of great importance to all of us, especially in this age. everyone who uses the internet must be protected against attacks on the internet. the 'global security' approach is the right way to go, because attacks from 'cyberspace' are global in nature and do not affect only individual countries. it is therefore important to achieve consistency with international law, which will be very difficult. that is the main problem. i also believe that all large databases containing sensitive personal data, such as those of the eu and member state governments or those of financial and health institutions, should be considered part of the critical information infrastructure and that the protection of such data should be ensured to the highest possible standards. it will also be important to take the necessary measures to protect critical infrastructures from cyber-attacks and to provide means to prevent access to critical information infrastructures. i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities.
in writing. − this report takes into consideration that all previous developments set out to increase the cyberspace security in the european union show that the issue of internet security is relevant and of importance. the development in this field demands, among other things, the prevention of internet attacks. an efficient interaction between all stakeholders – governments, business and individuals is important and has to be ensured.
in writing. - in recent years, the energy supply has been a constant source of pressure, as in the gas dispute in the freezing winter. cooperation in some areas of energy policy, such as joint purchasing to obtain favourable conditions, may be useful, but i cannot agree in principle to a transfer of national powers to brussels on a larger scale. especially as the past has shown the eu tends to acquire competences through the back door. nor can one escape the impression that energy market liberalisation has not delivered what the eu promised it would. in addition to the energy sector, the level of support varies widely, as countries rely on different energy sources - some on environmentally friendly technologies, others on nuclear power - and also have different priorities for energy infrastructure. i am afraid that nuclear power is being promoted through the back door, so i voted against it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we can discuss european foreign policy and have many opinions on it. but one thing that the european union has always excelled at in its foreign policy is the promotion of human rights worldwide. it is truly symbolic that the european union is now appointing for the first time a special representative to be responsible for this very subject. it's not just about functioning, it's also about showing out in this question. that's a good sign. when it comes to functioning, we must of course also discuss what he or she can, may or should do or may or should be able to do. what is important is that the mandate is as broad as possible, that it is not narrow, that it is not just about things that everyone comes up with in human rights issues anyway, but that he or she has the freedom to really decide what topics he or she wants to focus on. i also think it is good that the mandate is relatively long, i even think that it could be compared to the half-term of the european elections and say that two and a half years would be reasonable, so that there is still more time to devote to human rights issues. it is also necessary to have adequate equipment, adequate staff, and i would like to see that provided for. it is also important to me that there should be a reporting obligation to the european parliament. here the word duty is the right word, because of course we have to control what happens and what happens. it is also particularly important to me - and i am coming to the end of my speech - that it is not just about broad issues, but that it is also possible to control, for example, what european companies outside the european union do - for example, in the field of human and social rights - sometimes. that is also a subject which would be very interesting. i was going to tell my colleague at dartmouth, but he chose to leave. that is why i prefer to end my speech now.
i have to say, madam president, the mandate of the future eu special representative for human rights is diverse, ranging from the abolition of the death penalty to gender issues. i think there's too many issues focused on one person. the eusr shall focus on the core tasks. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks, which will be able to provide a platform for the exchange of information and experience between the member states. according to amnesty international, there has been no progress in this area in the past year. so, madam president, if you really want to achieve something, it would be wiser to concentrate on the core areas, not to want to be master of all classes and to get lost in many details or to score points by pseudo-actionism.
i have to say, madam president, the recent excitement over the delivery of german submarines to israel is, in my view, somewhat bizarre, because berlin has long been one of the world's leading arms exporters. we should also be clear that a country like israel cannot be dictated whether and how it will equip or rearm supplied weapons. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. but such demands are not very effective, especially when one considers that there is a gigantic black market in the arms trade. the forthcoming un conference on an international arms control treaty may therefore be useful in building a system to improve the enforcement of arms embargoes. but it will not be able to stop the illegal arms trade. and i think that we must take stronger action against them, rather than harassing the arms manufacturers and dealers in the eu countries and millions of sport shooters and hunters with new regulations, with regulations which do not bring any real security benefits.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. syria is becoming more and more a veritable cauldron of conflict. the european union has also been a major player in the fight against terrorism, and it is not surprising that the european union has been a major player in the fight against terrorism. moreover, religious extremists are increasingly involved, and they are now seeing the potential for an islamic state. the fact that syria plays a strategically important role in the region makes matters even more complicated. multireligious tensions are further exacerbated by ethnic conflicts. these are already being carried by refugees to unstable neighbouring countries, and it could indeed turn into something like a wildfire. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a party to the conflict, but must be able to take part in the peace process. but i think that military intervention could do more harm than good. especially because, unlike in libya, there is no clear front between the regime and the rebels to defend. the whole thing is slowly degenerating into a battle in individual neighborhoods. another confusion is the absence of a unified political opposition. the example of libya has shown us that the overthrow of the regime does not necessarily lead to an improvement in the human rights situation. if radical islamists come to power, there could be a real bloodbath in this ethnic tension field after the fall of the regime, and we should prevent this from happening at all costs on the part of the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fact that there are over 300 000 jewish settlers in the west bank is a fact which cannot and should not be undone. the fact that palestinian settlements are financed by the eu is also a fact. however, in 2011, the israeli army destroyed over 60 palestinian structures in the west bank that had been built with eu funds. these include houses, wells, and agricultural facilities. the structural projects supported by the eu must not be destroyed, because such actions naturally encourage reactions, on both sides. the recipe for peace and stability in this region is therefore not 'more money', but above all 'dialogue and mutual respect'. the eu must keep pressing both sides in the conflict to do so. this does not mean that the eu should or can be the big financial donor.
mr president, madam high representative, i would ask you not to be too impressed by all those speeches which have directly or indirectly called for military intervention. it is significant that none of these colleagues has said how many soldiers from spain, poland, the united kingdom and all the other countries of the speakers are to be provided for the domestic struggle that these soldiers would face in syria, how much war equipment would be provided, what costs would be incurred by these countries, some of which are currently being forced to fall under the umbrella of the rescue. it doesn't say who's gonna pay for it. this is very indicative of the whole debate. it is also not mentioned that syria is not on the hindu kush and that a war and an open military conflict in syria would have a very different impact on the neighbouring regions, in particular israel and palestine, than in afghanistan. this is all war-mongering, and you should not be impressed by it.
in writing. the accusations that rwanda is supplying trained fighters and weapons to the rebels in congo-kinshasa are making the war situation in eastern congo increasingly confusing. the commission has also been accused of seeking military aid from angola and zimbabwe. if this turns out to be true, the conflict in eastern congo could easily turn into a regional war. in general, all sides seem to be falling back on the old friend-enemy pattern from the congo wars. the easy availability of weapons is the main reason the arms embargoes have been broken time and again conflicts are constantly being re-ignited. the bad thing is that in the congo, wars are fought to get resources and resources are exploited to arm themselves for war. and past experience has shown that the un blue helmets are currently unable to provide adequate protection for the population. it is important that the eu continues to try to act as a mediator, but also to follow up on the recent allegations. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the arms embargoes are respected and that the civilian population is protected.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the agenda item is a new strategy for afghanistan. there is nothing new in what you have said, baroness ashton. nothing at all. the fact is that the west has failed in afghanistan once again, historically. the fact is that we don't know how karzai or his successor will survive or how the taliban will be contained. what did the whole isaf mission cost, what did it bring? the terrorism has not diminished, the taliban are not contained, the cultivation of drugs is even increasing. tens of thousands of dead, and they're called collateral damage. the same people who, before the last debate, lamented the deaths in syria, are now downplaying the same deaths in afghanistan as collateral damage. that's cynicism! we must learn again to respect more the cultural and political sovereignty of other peoples as the basis for the cooperation which the previous speaker has just called for. we will not be able to impose our system on other peoples permanently, as we did in colonial times. we'll have to learn that humility again. and in afghanistan, you see how quickly we're going to have to learn.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. as you have described, the situation in tibet is not only dramatic, it is also deteriorating. this must be a wake-up call for all of us. the desperate acts of self-immolation are now being met by even greater repression by the chinese leadership. tibet is currently closed once again, whether for the press, whether for free reporting, whether for tourism. the talks in the sino-tibetan dialogue are on ice. the autonomy enjoyed by tibet under the chinese constitution is only on paper and has not been realised. the chinese leadership reacts aggressively to any criticism of these conditions by european representatives. the forced settlement of nomads, i would like to stress this, is not only a blow to tibetan culture but also a problem for the ecological state of the tibetan highlands. we want a change in this policy, we want a realised autonomy within the chinese constitution with realised rights to education, tradition, religion and an end to marginalization. but for that to happen, the european union's tibet policy must also have a name and an address, as my predecessors have demanded.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like all those who applauded mr daul today to prove at the twopack that what mr daul said is also the opinion of the epp and that solutions are really being found to get out of the crisis. mr daul, we shall see this afternoon how serious the applause was. but you can have our applause for that! (applause from the centre) mr president of the commission, you have offered us an interinstitutional agreement. my group is prepared to do so. but an agreement only makes sense if it has substance. if it is exhausted by saying 'yes, we need the completion of the internal market and savings now, and that will bring all the growth', which is still the majority opinion among governments, then such an agreement is pointless. the agreement only makes sense if we take concrete action at the summit that is coming up. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. she's not gonna be too happy about that. i don't want to make a fool of what you said, i take it seriously. i just want to draw attention to what we really need. we need quick decisions, quick decisions in the next few days! we have a debt problem, and the debt is growing and not declining because our government leaders have not yet understood what it is about, and they do not have the courage to do what you have proposed and what we have proposed, that we solve the debt problem together. suddenly there is talk of a banking union. ladies and gentlemen, remember: we proposed this two years ago. the commission was in this direction, and the government people and the finance ministers said: 'no, no, no, this is far too much!' and 'this european supervision of banks must be reduced. we need much more national regulation. the heads of government need two years to think it over! it takes the heads of government two years to come up with the right ideas! the same applies to other things you have mentioned, mr president of the commission. that's the situation today. we recently had a big conference with young people from all over europe, non-partisan. there were a lot of young people there, who did something, not just complained that nothing was happening. they started a small business, they built startups. but they said, "where is the demand now, where can i sell my product?" who is now making sure that there is growth? who's investing in infrastructure? other so i say, yes, we can talk about a deal, very seriously. but now we must act. i can only quote the economist. you will see and know this: the ship is in deep water and the question is the question i can only join in: please can we start the engine now, mrs merkel? other yes, we have to start the engine now and not in one or two years, when it's too late. let me also say a few words about the budget. the budget is an element of the growth strategy. if now many say: growth yes, but budget no, or we reduce the budget, how absurd is that! the budget itself, in its many elements, contains much more than national budgets, aspects of a growth strategy. to quote someone who is not a socialist but a party colleague of mr lewandowski, namely the polish minister for finance, who said to me in an interview: 'everyone is talking about the need to invest more in research and development and less in infrastructure and the cohesion fund. but we also need the means to grow. we also need to find ways of investing in all the regions which are still very poorly off economically. (applause from the centre) that is why it is not enough to simply cut this budget, but we must make it more efficient and more meaningful. but if we are talking about greater competitiveness, if we are saying that we must do something to make ourselves globally competitive, then we must not cut the budget - which is a small budget, but an element of this strategy, and we must absolutely not do without this element. so we must walk this path together. i expressly welcome - even though you have been criticised, mr president barroso - your attendance at the cohesion summit in bucharest. the explanation could have been a little stronger, because on the one hand there are those who only want to cut and who want to cut more and more, and on the other hand explanations. but it was a good initiative that was taken. because we cannot just listen to those who say we must cut back. we must also listen to those who use these means. in general, this distinction between net contributors and net recipients, as if one were the good, the other the poor, who receive alms. the net beneficiaries don't get charity, they get a good share for boosting their economy. and if i come from a net contributor country, austria, i know very well that my country also benefits a lot from the fact that in hungary, romania, poland and many other countries, the eu also funds. so let's stop this separation of the good net payers and the bad net receivers. (applause from the centre) in conclusion, mr president, we said to the council yesterday, with very few exceptions, in a very unanimous way: this is not the way things are going to be as we decided on schengen. i hope we will maintain this unanimity on the budget, that we will clearly say to the council, but also to all those who want to cut blindly: this is not the way to go. and if we cannot reach an agreement - i appreciate your words, mr wammen - then we will go to the 2013 budget and continue writing it. we can live with that. i hope the council can live with that. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the mood among countless pro-europeans like myself is one of fearful horror at what is happening in europe at the moment. it is, however, gratifying that the situation we are dealing with is now being spoken of in a much clearer way and that italy is not being ignored. you know yourself that you are caught in a series of traps, not only the debt and growth trap, but also the confidence and power trap, dear commissioner, and this is also addressed to the council. unfortunately, they have so far failed to really address the central issue of the financial economy's distance from the real economy. everything we have decided here is being weighed up again and again in expert opinions as 'there is still no serious limit to shadow banking, we are still dealing with systemic risks, the issue of too big to fail is still not being addressed appropriately' and there is hardly any need to say anything about the rating agencies. i can only urge you, as you now work towards the council summit, to rebuild the credibility in europe of seriously raising the question of power between the real and the financial economies. in short, you are finally working in a credible way in front of the europeans to put the banks in their place and not always the citizens to bear the burden.
question for the commissioner: mr färm, you come from a country which has rejected the euro, but probably for the central reason that it is precisely for reasons of social policy that the flexibility of devaluation is to be preserved. in the light of the experience you have now gained in sweden, would you recommend that the greeks also leave the eurozone in order to be able to use this very social policy instrument of devaluations in a correspondingly active way?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is probably not very clear that the eu treaties require clarification of the own resources question in the new mff 2014-2020. for example, the revenue from the financial transaction tax gives member states the possibility to reduce their contributions to the eu budget by this amount. this would bring a significant calm to the eternal dispute between net payers and net receivers. it must also be clear that parliament is defending three basic positions: more budgetary room for manoeuvre, i.e. flexibility, reform of the own resources system and a stable budget which makes it possible to finance the eu's political objectives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. think of our citizens. we urgently need investment in education and the labour market.
i have to say, madam president, doing the right thing at the wrong time is wrong, too. these rules proposed here should have been adopted at the latest 15 years ago if they were to make any sense at all. today, it turns out that they're no longer useful. it is too late for greece and cyprus, it is too late for portugal, it is too late for spain, it is probably too late for italy. all the fancy talk is no longer helpful: the euro has failed. and this is not just my opinion, but obviously the opinion of the head of the imf, mrs lagarde, who gives the euro a maximum of three months. what's the point of making that decision today? i voted against this resolution with all my heart because it is simply too late, because it is wrong and because it can only serve to hide the failure of the euro project. the euro has failed as the historic project of this european union. and we should finally be ready to admit that economic facts can no longer be denied politically.
i have to say, madam president, the report is a report which is not only a report of the council but also a report of the commission. mr karnall, of the ecr, is quite right when he says that the euro was doomed from the start because it was simply packed into a currency zone of economies with such different current account balances as those between germany, austria and greece. no country has yet been destroyed by upgrades or devaluations. but there are countries in economic history that have gone down with their debt coupled with a lack of current account. and that is the problem which this ferreira report is not able to solve. we must simply recognize what paul krugman told us two days ago when he said, for example, in an american newspaper, that the political elites of europe are always ready to take action to protect the banks, but in their policies they are unwilling to protect the citizens and put the economy back at the service of the people. that is what this report clearly shows. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − the middle east peace negotiations, which took place in washington in autumn 2010, also illustrate the eu's dwarfism in foreign policy. although it is officially part of the so-called middle east quartet alongside the us, the un and russia, it is not even allowed to sit at the negotiating table, let alone speak. this insignificance does not seem to bother brussels any more, because europe has long been content to play the role of the paymaster. the principle of 'who pays, creates' does not seem to apply to the eu, which is always 'concerned' or 'affected' by emerging threats to peace or existing injustices. instead of fantasizing about foreign policy size in the framework of the lisbon treaty, it would have been better to have clarified in advance the issues of adequate representation of the european union at the united nations, including the right of its top representatives to speak or to submit proposals. the european union is not a state, and it is not meant to be one, according to the will of the peoples of europe. since the eu does not address these basic problems, i abstained on this report.
in writing. − the eu needs to strengthen its cohesion in order to remain a key player in an increasingly multipolar world in the need of global concerted action. the eu is committed to effective multilateralism with a strong un at its core, since this is essential in order to address global challenges. a solid and stable eu-un partnership is fundamental to the work of the un under all three pillars - peace and security, human rights and development - and is also a key to the eu's role as a global actor.
in writing. - as early as 1964, some developing countries were calling for trade preferences to improve their economic situation. the first step in the process of liberalization of trade in goods was taken in 1968 with the conclusion of an agreement establishing a system of generalized tariff preferences (gsp). in 1971 the european economic community introduced gsp, and other countries such as the united states followed suit. the temporary granting of trade preferences has been designed to increase the export earnings of developing countries by diversifying export products, to promote industrialization and to accelerate the economic growth of developing countries. the gsp should also ensure that the products benefiting from the scheme originate in developing countries. to date, the gsp is one of the eu's most important instruments in the field of trade and is monitored by the european commission. i am sorry to say that i cannot agree with the report because the proposed amendments do not seem to have matured.
in writing. - what has been said about the feirrera report is also true here. new rules to limit the debt of the euro countries will do as much good as the old ones: i mean, nothing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. of course, he is also responsible for this - and this has been repealed since the euro crisis. the present rules are intended only to establish joint liability in the euro area, which is why they must be rejected outright. nor is it the task of the eu or other northern eu states to adopt various budgetary 'monitoring' measures which could lead, or have already led, to civil warlike conditions in the southern countries. the problem must be tackled at its root, i.e. the euro must be dissolved in its former form or restricted to the more stable countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is no recovery for the debtor countries in the euro. the blindness will be prolonged and the healthy states will be swept into the abyss.
in writing. the commission proposal for a regulation lays down additional rules for the monitoring of the budgetary policies of the member states, provides for a common budgetary timetable and for stricter monitoring of the budgetary decisions of the member states. this sounds good, but it's old wine in new bottles. the same objective was pursued by the stability and growth pact, which was the precondition for germany's acceptance of the euro. it has been broken over 80 times. why should this be different with the new guidelines? the very wording that 'the enforcement of budgetary surveillance should always be subject to the eu's overarching objectives, in particular the provisions of article 9 tfeu on the promotion of a high level of employment and the guarantee of adequate social protection', expressly shows that this is not what is being considered in the first place. the countries concerned will always find a reason why they will not comply with the guidelines. the sanctions mechanisms are also completely inadequate. the regulation is therefore not worth the paper it is written on.
in writing. - the neoliberal policies have led us into the crisis. the problems associated with the financial crisis cannot be solved by the same methods that created them. we need a coordinated, solidarity-based economic policy that puts people, not the market, at the centre. the ferreira report, which contains both rules for the establishment of a debt-repayment fund and a timetable for the introduction of eurobonds, is an important step towards coordinated economic policy and the fight against macroeconomic imbalances in europe. sustainable growth can only come about if we abandon the unilateral policy of austerity.
in writing. the european bank for reconstruction and development has so far been responsible for providing financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe and the community of independent states in their efforts to achieve free market economies and private and entrepreneurial activity. the key issues are the promotion of competition, privatisation and entrepreneurship. as a result, banks, industrial enterprises and companies - especially start-ups - are the main beneficiaries of capital support. the eib's financing supports the attraction of co-financing and foreign direct investment as well as the mobilisation of domestic capital. investments are mainly in private companies, usually in conjunction with business partners. the bank also provides technical cooperation and cooperates with international financial institutions and international and national organisations. i did not vote for the report because i believe that the activities of the ebrd in the past have already provided a strong incentive for fraud and that it would not be appropriate to extend the scope of the ebrd's activities.
in writing. the european union is a member of the european union and the european union is a member of the european union. since 1991, two years after the fall of the berlin wall, the ebrd has taken on the task of supporting the transition to democratic pluralism and market economies in central and eastern europe and the successor states of the former soviet union. the ebrd finances investment projects in the private and public sectors. the bank's key countries of operation - russia, ukraine and hungary - have very serious points of criticism and it will be necessary to emphasise the mandate of promoting democracy enshrined in the bank's statutes. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european communities' financial interests is a very good one.
in writing. - we do not need a bloated eu budget, and certainly not one financed by eu taxes, which completely eliminates any desire to save, which bloats the brussels bureaucracy even more and dresses net payers up to their undershirts. in countries struggling to avoid bankruptcy, people have to make great sacrifices. the citizens of the net contributor countries, who have to finance the various senseless bailout excesses from their national budgets, have also tightened their belts. in this tense situation, the proposed multiannual financial framework is a shameless attempt. as long as savings potential is not exploited, i can only strongly oppose the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − it is unacceptable that the european union should demand from each of its members a reduction in deficits and expenditure while at the same time proposing an increased budget. while countries are being urged to save everywhere and reduce their budget deficits accordingly, the eu commission wants to increase the budget for 2013 by 6.8 percent, which is definitely to be rejected. although much of the money is intended to go back into growth-enhancing programmes and new infrastructure projects in the countries, the commission's plans do not exactly demonstrate a spirit of austerity. i can understand the criticism of some countries who do not agree at all that their own contribution to the eu budget is too high. we all need to save and keep our budgets in order and it is therefore unacceptable that the eu should inflate bureaucracy even more and create even more expenditure, in this tense situation, it is not helpful to ask for budget increases, which is why i voted against the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − eu funding should be reformed by creating a tff and a european vat. if reforms are carried out, the contributions of member states could be reduced between 40 and 75 %. the ep stated its position on its resolution 8 june 2011 and called for efforts against freezing or reducing the budget and asked to identify clear priorities or political projects which could dispense altogether despite its europoean added value to overcome the current crisis (eu budget is needed to create growth vs. austerity).
in writing. - the fact that we want to talk about trade negotiations and conclude an agreement with a major exporting power like japan is a good and right idea in principle. this negotiation or agreement will benefit both parties. but now some meps are complaining that japan is imposing too high tariffs and that is why the negotiations are being postponed, despite the fact that it was decided more than a year ago (may 28, 2011) that negotiations would be started. it is unacceptable that this promising 'cooperation' should be delayed any longer. each country can create customs duties and also determine the level of the corresponding duty. the eu also has tariffs, and i don't think that's for everyone. the eu wants to impose things on european countries, but japan is not in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the eu should not go beyond its powers and impose things on a non-eu country. i therefore call for these negotiations to begin immediately in order to expand and develop trade between the eu and japan to the benefit of both sides. the fact that this motion is designed to postpone the negotiations further back means that, although i am in principle in favour of this agreement, i voted against it.
in writing. − the ep does not authorise the opening of the trade negotiations with japan until the responsible committee will state its position. a scoring group was set up in order to share understanding on the scope and level of ambition of the future trade agreement between japan and the eu. japan shall show more engagement on removing regulatory barriers to trade.
in writing. - guinea-bissau, located in west africa, is one of the poorest countries in the world. on april 12, 2012, the day the country's election campaign began, a military coup took place, removing both interim president raimundo pereira and prime minister carlos gomes junior from office and arresting them. the people are also suffering a severe blow as the country's decades-long instability has become more severe. in addition, ecowas imposed sanctions on the state, which are likely to continue to harm the already weak economy in the long term. nevertheless, these sanctions could be a means of stopping the human rights abuses being committed by the military against the population. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the eu must do everything possible to restore political stability in guinea-bissau and thus prevent humanitarian disasters in the medium term, which in turn trigger migration flows.
in writing. − the ep takes this resolution to attract attention to the necessity of un involvement in the process of mobilization of the country; to urge the eu to send a new supporting mission to reform the security sector in the country; and, over all, to bear in mind that poverty is one of its biggest problems so it keeps needing humanitarian aid.
in writing. − it is not just differences in ownership and affiliation that have made abyei the centre of a decades-long civil war, it is also differences in religion, the muslim north versus the christian and naturalist south, forced together by the arbitrary demarcation of borders by former colonial powers. the referendum should never have been allowed to stand as long as the status of abyei's voters was not fixed and the dispute over oil reserves was not resolved. nor should we forget the equally disputed regions of blue nile and south kordofan, with the nuba mountains. the present motion for a resolution is moving in the right direction. that's why i agreed to it.
in writing. − all the authors strongly urge that sudan and south sudan have to reach an agreement on the unsolved transitional political and economic arrangements between the two countries, including on the use of oil; it reiterates that a precondition for achieving peace and stability in the region is to solve the issues of border demarcation. moreover all the authors strongly condemn all acts of violence committed against civilians in violation of international humanitarian law and human rights law. all parties urge to promote and protect human rights, including those of women and people belonging to vulnerabel groups and to comply with their obligations under international law, including international humanitarian and international human rights law, and calls for those responsible for serious violations of such law, including secual violence, to be held accountable.
in writing. − first of all, it should be noted that colombia and peru are currently experiencing a welcome development, but are still far behind the economic strength of the eu countries. that is why i voted in favour of the report on development cooperation with south america the day before yesterday. in most cases, free trade agreements between developed and developing countries benefit primarily the global western corporations and less the local economies in the partner countries. in these countries, local and regional structures are often destroyed, leading to more poverty and further migration. while a few enjoy the benefits of free trade agreements, the majority of the population has none. in this case, the eu parliament therefore advocates a package of measures to mitigate these negative consequences and strengthen human rights in the region. as a supporter of closer relations with colombia and peru, i also voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - i welcome the steps towards a trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru, which will certainly have a positive impact on the opening of markets and the promotion of economic relations. the improved economic opportunities that result will create new jobs and reduce poverty. the trade agreement aims to promote sustainable development in these countries and this ultimately benefits europe. but we must provide sustainable 'self-help' and i voted for the resolution because it will allow the eu to continue to use its influence in this region in a positive and sustainable way.
in writing. - i abstained on this report because i have serious concerns about the human rights situation in colombia, particularly the serious violations of trade union rights. the reason why i did not vote against it in the end was that i found the roadmap very valuable, because it proposed urgently needed measures. the commission has not yet adopted the amendments which are essential and relevant to the subject. i refer to paragraph 15, the core element, which provides that the resolution should contribute to the respect of human rights in colombia. the commission has to be involved in the effective controls. it is also necessary that the roadmap enter into force before the vote on ratification of the free trade agreement, in order to ensure that the provisions of the roadmap are actually implemented and respected. only cooperation between the andean countries and the eu can ensure that this roadmap is also enforceable. it is also important to put in place effective mechanisms against the existing 'impunity' without delay. this can only be done with the support and participation of the european union.
in writing. − the visibility, effectivenes, coherence and accountability of the eu´s human rights policy and the ep´s role in the appointment procedure are the focus of this report and with my vote i wanted to support their implementation.
in writing. − the arms trade is one of the most lucrative industries in the world. while there are strict controls and trade bans or restrictions on nuclear weapons, this is not the case for conventional weapons, although wars have been fought conventionally to date. in order to secure peace and to curb and regulate the uncontrolled trade in arms, intensive negotiations are currently under way on the united nations arms trade treaty. i did not vote for the resolution because i believe that the approaches of the treaty are quite good but that they do not address the main problem, which is the illegal arms trade. warring nations will always find ways to obtain arms illegally if necessary. the problem could be exacerbated by the treaty, leading to a veritable arms black market boom.
in writing. − the last elections in the drc were held in november 2011, but according to eu election observers, they were not transparent. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the programme. in addition, the congolese government has not accepted all proposals for measures to ensure a regular and orderly election. the population has, however, made use of its opportunity to vote. after all, the november voter turnout was 80 percent, which suggests that there is an increased interest within the population to advance the democratic process. i voted for the resolution because i agree that elections alone are not enough to create the necessary conditions for a democratic process. i also share the view that the social and economic development of the country and the protection of the fundamental rights of the population are essential building blocks for a functioning democracy.
in writing. − this report provides a range of recommendations that the eu expect to see implemented during the local-regional elections which will be held in 2014. the ep use this resolution to remind how necessary for democracy is to trust in electoral processes and their outcomes, the necessity of a firm commitment with the respect for the human rights and the importance of approaching the consensus between political forces and civil society.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i shall be very brief in my point of view. i have only one request: we are used to hearing british debates on certain subjects which do not really interest us all. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the situation in the member states and to give us a brief overview of the situation in the community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. as early as october 2010, it was clear to all of us that the european semester was a first step towards necessary reforms that would significantly change the face of european economic policy. the european semester is a very deep and comprehensive analysis of the european economy as a whole. on 30 may, the commission adopted the overall package of its analysis, including the country-specific recommendations. we were not really surprised to find that there are economic imbalances in spain and cyprus. we also see clearly where other member states have to do their homework. the european semester has that is my first conclusion been a baptism of fire. together with sixpack and twopack - it is on the table - the strengthening of coordination of european economic and fiscal policies is, in my view, well on its way. but this is not a compliment, but must be a warning. in the light of the continuing national debt crises in europe, there is a need to think and act beyond these measures quickly and clearly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. instead of finally tackling the real problems of the eurozone, the union - we all know this - has stuck its head in the sand and tried to stay afloat with marketing strategies. i think that the european semester has long since been overtaken by reality, although it should have been the one that brought about greater financial transparency. we all learned the hard way in the wake of the euro crisis that economic growth and success cannot be dictated. and the eu's inability to ensure that agreed financial criteria are met has already been demonstrated in the very ineffective stability pact. the monetary union is a misconception, which was doomed from the start, because of the enormously different economic conditions of its members, as we know today. instead of going further towards centralisation, as is now apparently being attempted, we must return to a federation of states with equal rights, which may also be able to pursue their own monetary and economic policies. at the very least, a smaller hard currency zone would be viable. we all know that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european semester was the first time that the commission assessed stability and convergence in the member states and their reform programmes. for the first time, the macroeconomic imbalances of 12 member states were also analysed. i do not want to go into specific details. i welcome the fact that the commission has reconsidered its original position and that it is now clear that only deficits are to be punished. we do not need a soviet planned economy where we also punish countries which produce surpluses. the commission's criticism of tax splitting is negative for me - and i do not quite understand the reason for it. the commission considers that this division is a barrier to access to the labour market. but i think family tax splitting is an important measure to support families. especially in times of crisis, it is important to ensure that starting a family does not lead to poverty, even if you are temporarily unable to earn a salary.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if mr grech of the social democrats meant that this resolution was a call for economic growth, he is mistaken in thinking that economic growth can be decided politically. the soviet union has learned this painfully, because at every party congress it has decided on rates of economic growth. the same placebo quality is this resolution. we are in danger of losing the credibility of the internal market in the eyes of the european citizen. nothing makes the failure of eu policy in the area of the single market more obvious than the scandalously high unemployment rates. who have benefited from this single market? the people who have to fight harder every day to keep their jobs, the growing number of people who have to work two jobs to make a living? this resolution does not answer that. we are in danger of losing the positive aspects of the internal market because we have no answer to the unemployment which is increasing daily, especially among young people. unemployment rates of over 50% are a scandal and show the failure of your internal market policy and your monetary policy!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to mention two examples which annoy millions of motorists every day because the single market has not been achieved here. the first example concerns the obligation to accompany. we have open borders and we drive our cars across all the countries of the european union, and we see that in all the countries there are completely different car-sharing requirements. in some countries you must carry a light fixture, in others a safety vest, in a third country perhaps a dust collector or a respirator, and more recently alcohol-containing devices. if you don't comply with the escort requirement, there are heavy penalties. it is time to standardize here, and i ask you, commissioner, to take the initiative to standardize here, and i also ask you to limit it to a warning vest, a warning triangle and a pharmacy. that should do it. the second example concerns the registration of motor vehicles which have already been registered in one country and are being transferred to another country. we are faced with the whole process of obtaining a driving licence again. this requires a lot of bureaucracy, is annoying and brings with it a lot of new costs. i ask you to implement the regulation which has already been sent out quickly, so that in hinkunft it means: once registered, registered everywhere for every motor vehicle in europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i thank you for your comments, commissioner. i'd like to do it a little differently. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is necessary to close them. the short-term shareholder approach is one of the main causes of the crisis. the economic and financial crisis has shown us very clearly that this policy has failed. an enterprise must be understood as a social organisation with responsibilities towards shareholders, employees, creditors and society as a whole. information, consultation and participation are therefore essential if corporate social responsibility is to be taken seriously. in any case, competition between national and european legal systems must be stopped. you have spoken about the 14th directive, commissioner. as rapporteur for the recent resolution on the 14th directive, i am disappointed at the inadequate follow-up by the commission. reference to the impact assessment of the old european commission carried out in 2007 is not appropriate. i would ask you to take concrete action and to follow the procedure agreed between the commission and parliament. i would like to say categorically that the work on european private society has been started prematurely, that the commission has not been fully formed and that it does not take account of the needs of the people of europe today. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the legal affairs committee resolution calls on you to take a stronger stakeholder approach in all your future initiatives, to protect the interests of employees, creditors, members and to respect national co-determination and protection rules.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european approach to tackling today's challenges is not one of consolidating european finances or of a labour-intensive upswing, as some populists try to convince citizens. of course, there is a responsibility to achieve both. the present commission statement is, in my view, a major step in that direction. i welcome the recognition of the potential of the green and white economy, the dual vocational training system as a kind of model for future structures, the implementation of the youth guarantee, the introduction of lifelong learning for the increasingly important group of older workers and the clear definition of the increased use of the funds. that means that we must now implement the measures announced. i can see that from all the observations made by the commission and the commissioner. but to say something about the legitimate goal of avoiding a lost generation, yes, but again, this can only be done through the two pillars and through the implementation of generational justice and solidarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but of course this immediately leads to the reduction of responsible debt. and i want us to not play one-on-one here, but to do both. that is the aim of the work of this parliament.
the commission has already done so. i have to say that i am very pleased with the way in which the commission has dealt with this matter. the subject deserves a full house. the unemployed people in europe deserve that. we have our employment objective in the treaty on european union, and we have so many conditions to deal with this issue seriously. so just an observation on my part: in the last debate in the plenary you said something about youth unemployment which is incredibly important and which fits in with this subject, namely that it is necessary to keep the big picture in mind, namely a demand-driven macroeconomic economic policy. the unemployed alone cannot solve the problem of unemployment. we must therefore keep an eye on economic policy and, in particular, the multiannual financial framework and allocate the resources that are needed to pay for the unemployed in europe. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i have the honour to represent our former colleague, mr jános áder, who negotiated this report. i should also like to thank him and wish him luck in his task. as you know, he is now the new president of hungary. it is very important for hungary in particular that we have someone who has these strong contacts with the european union and here in the european parliament. this directive is an adaptation of the seveso ii directive, and its purpose is to prevent major chemical accidents, such as those which have occurred here in europe, for example in seveso, schweizerhalle, toulouse, etc., or, if accidents do occur, to introduce the corresponding protective measures for the population and the environment. the seveso ii directive has been quite successful. we need to adapt them now because the directive on the classification, labelling and packaging of dangerous substances and mixtures, the so-called clb directive, will come into force on 1 june 2015, and with it its annex i, which lists the dangerous substances applicable to establishments. that is why this adjustment is necessary now. in europe we have about 10 000 chemical plants which directly produce these substances and are affected by them. i would like to add at this point that it is important to keep our strong chemical industry in europe. we were just discussing jobs earlier. we need this industrial base to provide jobs in the long term. but at the same time, of course, we must ensure that the environment and people are protected from the dangers of such plants. the revision is also intended to raise the level of protection, not to lower it, and we must therefore work to improve enforcement and, of course, to create a level playing field for the companies. we have of course started to try to adjust the overall conditions of competition in such a way that the administrative burden is reduced as much as possible everywhere, in all the member states. this is a major challenge for us europeans. many of the world's competitors have very lax regulations, and our companies are obviously suffering greatly from this. another reason for the adjustment was the aarhus convention. we know that this is a convention, which the european union has also signed, to improve public information on access to the justice system. here we have been able to achieve substantial improvements in terms of people working in the immediate vicinity of such establishments having better access to justice and also having increased information rights. there have been major problems with the council. in particular, we have tried to absorb substances that affect the respiratory system. we've also largely prevailed. only seven substances are granted temporary exemptions. in the case of skin-damaging substances - this is category 3 toxicity, to put it technically - we have managed to absorb three substances and the rest are outside. nevertheless, it was part of the agreement that the commission will examine the extent to which future inclusion will be possible. it is also important for parliament that we have won the amendment of annex i. the normal legislative procedure is applied here, and not the delegated acts as planned by the commission or the implementing acts as planned by the council. i would also like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for the fact that we have been able to establish a strong position of parliament vis-à-vis the council and the commission. we have made substantial improvements. i would like to thank all those involved and wish mr áder all the best for his future work.
the commission has already done so. as austrians, we were indirectly affected by the red mud disaster in hungary in 2010. the concerns of the population were very great, the uncertainty was very great. i therefore welcome this intention of seveso iii, even if i agree with my predecessor, mr matthias groote, that the attempt to water down the situation in some member states was very great. i would really ask that we address the population here. we need that transparency, we need the information. what we need above all is financial security. it is not possible that all these precautions and, in the event of a disaster, the costs to the general public are overwhelmed. i really ask that we have contingency plans that involve the public, that we have contingency plans that really address the concerns of the environment. my final sentence is: all life is chemistry, but dangerous chemistry must be controlled. and seveso iii would have offered the opportunity to go a little bit harder here.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i think the debate has made it clear that we are not happy with this compromise, but that is the nature of compromise. we could have gone further, but here the council has mainly blocked us. the debate has also clearly shown that we must pay particular attention to good implementation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that this is done. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the use of chemicals. there's a certain amount of danger potential, and that needs to be properly managed. it was also clear that the tools available, such as contingency plans, etc., should be as precise as possible and should involve the public so that every citizen knows how to react when a worst-case scenario occurs - because such an accident happens. if these plans are well thought out, many lives can be saved. we all know that time is a decisive factor here, and of course the training of the security forces who are on the premises themselves or who are from the area concerned. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the programme. in the case of prevention, management in the plant is also central, but also management on the spot in the respective affected area. we are also fortunate that we have ensured, through co-decision, that parliament is fully involved when it comes to adapting this annex i. we have to be careful not to be pushed aside. we did it. i would therefore like to conclude by saying once again that i think the compromise is all right. of course, we wished we could have gone further. but in the spirit of agreement with the council and the commission, we can agree. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. dear matthias groote, you are the chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. it's your responsibility to make sure we do our jobs properly. it is precisely in this dossier that a second reading would not have brought so much. i don't think we could have been more involved. the overall assessment of the rapporteur, that the council should be included immediately, was correct. the agreement of the shadow rapporteurs also showed that we had reached a maximum compromise. but i am particularly pleased that the commission has taken it upon itself to examine regularly which substances are still included. we can put that on our flags. i am counting in particular on commissioner potočnik and his team to put the right pressure on this and to extend the scope in our favour.
i have to say, madam president, when "desert flower" was published in 1998, my oldest daughter was 14 years old, and when i read the book in which waris dirie described what happened to her, i thought it was something that actually happened in the middle ages. i couldn't believe this was happening in the present. what i still cannot believe is that it is happening right in our midst and that it affects 500,000 women in europe. today, 14 years later, my youngest daughter is 14, and i am glad that she is spared these barbaric practices. i think we are particularly called upon to clarify this now that we know what is going on. to clarify that this is not about religious practices, but that in reality they are the most serious violations of human rights. we must have a zero tolerance policy here, with regard to the health and psychological burdens on these women. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the stigma attached to these women. because only if the victims speak out do we have a chance to put an end to this barbaric practice.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the numbers are shocking, and you can't even imagine that 155 million women worldwide are affected by genital mutilation. we in the european union must ensure that awareness is created to bring about an end to these practices. in particular, we must work to ensure that female genital mutilation is banned in third countries and that awareness is created of the human dignity of these practices. it is important that the victims receive psychological and medical care and finally - and this is particularly important to me - to point out that parents who do this to their children are given a deterrent prison sentence.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to take this opportunity, commissioner, to draw attention to a regulation which is currently being revised, or more precisely, is about to be finalized. but this case of defective breast implants shows us that this regulation still needs to be revised. i am referring to brussels i, the regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. in austria, at least 60 victims of defective breast implants have tried in vain to bring a complaint through their consumer organisation in vienna. they failed because of a loophole in the jurisdictional regulation. we could now improve the situation of these victims and many others, although consumer organizations representing the victims could also benefit from the more favourable consumer justice system. we have here another case of defective breast implants, which shows that the exclusive courts, like the consumer court, also need to be revised.
the commission has already done so. i want to join in. we are talking about medical devices today, and i think we need the strictest licensing criteria, we need the strictest controls, and we need the widest possible information. but i also believe that very few breast implants are actually used as medical devices in the sense of medical therapy or treatment, and that a very large proportion is used in cosmetic surgery. we are talking about a market of about 700 million euros. my question today is this: and i would like to join linda mcavan in this, how far can we as health officials be responsible for the fact that in the meantime a large number of europeans, women in particular, have such a distorted self-image that they believe that they are really women only after having such implants. if we consider that in europe about 22% of young people, mainly women, suffer from eating disorders, that the advertising and the image that is conveyed to us in advertising, in the media, of a young person, of a full-fledged woman, of a full-fledged man, is an image that needs to be corrected, if the outcome is that a large number of these people believe that their self-esteem can only be restored with the help of surgical procedures, then we would have to think about advertising restrictions here in the sense of good health prevention.
question for the commissioner: i would like to ask mrs sârbu: this legislation is again very bureaucratic, for example in the case of pesticides. i would like to know why there is such a strong desire to duplicate legislation at european level. we already have a lot of existing legislation, so why should we have to do it again?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank esther de lange for the work she has done for our group. but we should not forget, in addition to the importance of the debate on baby food, that: this is also the case for other groups of the population who are also massively affected. if we look at the statistics, we see that 10-30% of the european population is lactose intolerant, 5-7% is fructose malabsorption, 1% is histamine intolerant and 1% is celiac. doctors believe the dark number is much higher. the current legal framework we have in europe is difficult to interpret, both for the control authorities and for the companies that produce these foods. and it is even more difficult - especially for consumers - to get the right product. the variety of products has also increased dramatically in recent years and decades. consider the variety of protein bars offered to athletes for muscle building. think of dietary supplements for expectant mothers, of calcium and vitamin c-enriched foods for the elderly, and especially of the various diets that are offered that promise weight loss in a few weeks or less. the legal framework we have at present comprises four different directives and regulations, for example the directive on foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses, on infant formulae and follow-on formulae, on low-calorie diets and so on. so we should think about how we can come to a unified concept. this proposal aims to provide this uniform approach by making it clear that labelling must be clear to consumers, that it must be clear to companies what they have to write on it and, above all, that it must be controllable by the authorities. we can thus achieve a win-win situation and create the single market which, unfortunately, we do not have at present because of the various national interpretations.
the commission has already done so. the present system brings many of the things we are seeking, namely more security for producers, security for consumers and also the possibility of controlling it. we have already taken a first step towards improving this freedom of choice on the food market with the regulation on food labelling. but there are a number of consumers who, because of their medical needs, do not have that choice in the marketplace. so we need very clear rules for them, very clear safety, whether they are cancer patients or whether they are patients with metabolic diseases. but we also need - and this has been mentioned several times today - security for the youngest members of our society, for the infants. and here, too, parents may be overly influenced by advertising to make decisions that may not necessarily be in the best interests of their babies. there should also be freedom of choice between breast-feeding and infant feeding. but that decision must be based on facts and not on the print of advertisements. i can only agree with mrs willmott's comments on the follow-on milk products.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since the digestive tract of newborns is known to be capable of killing off germs ingested through food only after two to three months, the requirements regarding the hygiene and quality of infant food must be particularly high. in our high-tech, scientific age, however, parents are often uncertain. as the father of five children, i know that for myself. there are different opinions on breast- feeding, which is undoubtedly the perfect baby food, and on whether, when, and how infant formula, follow- on formula, and baby food should be given. there is little we can do about this uncertainty, since parents must no doubt decide for themselves what is right for them and what they feel is right. however, it is undoubtedly important that the eu prohibits all advertising measures aimed at discouraging mothers from breastfeeding. this can't be happening.
the commission has already done so. i would like to make one final request today. we are discussing - and it is also important - the multiannual action programme for health. i would not like to call it health for growth, but i would like to call it health for all, so that we can focus on health literacy. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the proposals put forward by the rapporteur, mr von wogau, and i hope that the commission will be able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. i would ask you to give it special emphasis. we need this health literacy, not just in the food sector, but in the whole health sector.
in writing. the sector of specialised food, once a niche market, has grown significantly in recent years. the distinction between normal and 'enriched' foods for certain target groups is often difficult. there are some important points, especially as regards infant food. we need food of the highest quality and with regard to animal welfare, a ban on pesticides, especially in products of animal origin such as milk, stricter controls on advertising. often, parents feel pressured to buy a certain product because the advertising - sometimes falsely - suggests that their baby is not developing properly. therefore, the information must be approved by pediatricians or midwives! the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its powers of control democratically, particularly with regard to the definition of terms and the composition of the institutions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i very much welcome the fact that this debate on european milk production is finally possible today. the milk package was a first step. but now it is high time to take account of the current market situation. this is not a seasonal fluctuation in the milk market, but the prices are falling more and more. the price situation of recent years has not yet been fully understood by many enterprises. in austria in particular, there is very, very high uncertainty. the measures to be taken after the quota expires after 2015 are real questions of survival for our farmers. i do not want to see our dairy farmers hit by the end of the quota and i really want concrete action from the commission. an adjustment of the fat correction and, above all, a reduction in the excess feed. it is a serious question whether it is justified to continue to impose very high fines on individual dairy farms. if there is always talk of a 'soft landing', then this must apply to all measures. special attention should be paid to areas where there are no alternatives to milk production. i am asking for a clear support for our less favoured areas. without milk production and livestock farming, we cannot keep these regions alive. the milk market needs very clear rules.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. firstly, i do not share the view that our dairy farmers are doing well. on the contrary, come to austria to our alpine structured farms, which are struggling to survive. if we do not want to kill many dairy farmers, we must maintain the milk quota to regulate the market quantities. otherwise our alpine farms will close their farms because they simply cannot compete. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quotas are not exceeded. we need a regional supply system, and we should not be transporting milk all over europe, but rather producing it locally. but also on a pan-european scale, the abolition of the milk quota would impose enormous import pressure on the european milk market. the milk quota must therefore be recalculated, because at present, even slight exceedances of the national quota are liable to result in fines in the millions, even though the total milk quota is currently under-delivered. so this cannot be appropriate. finally, we need an eu-wide price corridor derived from the total cost of production. this would allow a fair price to be established for both producers and consumers. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
question for the commissioner: a very short question to mr obermayr: you mentioned that the quota is the solution to the problems. how can you explain the dramatic price situation in 2008 and 2009 despite the existing quotas for our dairy farmers? i would be very interested to hear your expertise on these issues, on the current situation and on market measures.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. first of all, thank you, madam president, for giving me the expertise that i do not have, of course, because i am not an agricultural producer. i have many friends from the region who, of course, also work with me as buyers and keep me well informed. i can only recommend to the honourable member that she should listen to them and take account not only of the producers and the association policy but also of the consumers and the interested parties. but if you listened to what i said, i also talked about a price corridor, which means that we make prices dependent on the cost of production. this is a fair approach because the cost of production is very different, as you yourself will admit, depending on whether i am producing in the alpine region today or in the lowland area. if we can calculate that, we'll find a reasonable solution.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. the current decline in milk prices is not a coincidence. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. the dramatic reduction in milk prices in recent weeks, combined with the simultaneous rise in production costs - both feed and fertiliser and diesel - have become more expensive, and this has led to a real breakdown in the milk industry. many dairy farmers are therefore actually struggling to survive. in addition, demand for dairy products is declining, as consumers in some southern european countries can no longer afford the quantities of milk and dairy products they had before the euro crisis. the cap reform is therefore of great importance, especially in the context of the current milk crisis, because a massive loss of farmers could actually undermine the self-sufficiency of the eu countries. the first is that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development, which are not in line with the commission's proposal.
i already said yesterday that i'm going to vote against this placebo resolution. there are other arguments that have been added today. after christine lagarde had previously declared that the euro would be history in three months, today we read that alan greenspan even literally declared: yes, the euro has failed. the european union's internal market policy is now threatened with failure because of the scandalous unemployment figures which it is supposed to represent. what are we gonna do? we are producing a placebo resolution on the further development of the internal market and we are calling for more regulation to make it even more difficult for small and mediumsized enterprises to survive and thus to secure jobs. this is the wrong way! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is not creating jobs! economic growth cannot be decided politically, but must be made possible by reducing regulation density rather than introducing additional regulation density! and that's what this placebo resolution calls for. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. − this report is referring to the establishment of a multi-annual plan for the stock of herring distributed to the west of scotland and the fisheries exploiting that stock. members proposed one more appropriate definition than the one proposed by the commission, which would only refer to scottish waters. delegated acts are limited as to their scope to the modification of fishing mortality rates and spawning stock biomass levels and may be adopted only if the conditions specified in the text are fulfilled. the adoption of this report will ensure that the commission should be obliged to use scientific data from the stecf and to consult the pelagic regional advisory council before taking any decision on adopting delegated acts fixing new values for fishing mortality rates and spawning stock biomass levels. the stecf and the pelagic regional advisory council should also be mandatorily involved in the process of evaluating the multi-annual plan.
in writing. − major industrial accidents are a recurrent cause of loss of life, destruction of public and private property and serious damage to the environment. it is important to take all possible measures to reduce the likelihood of such accidents and to mitigate their effects. in particular, well-designed safety management systems and contingency plans should be in place to prevent more serious damage in the event of an accident. in particular, it is essential in this context to ensure uniform classification, labelling and packaging of such substances. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the protection of the environment is guaranteed.
in writing. − the proposal for a directive on control of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances is currently being discussed by the european parliament. due to changes in the eu system of classification of dangerous substances to which the directive refers to. the transport of dangerous substances in pipelines or by road, rail, internal waterways, sea or air is still outside of the scope. heavy fuel oil has been included in the entry for petroleum products.
in writing. − since the digestive tract of newborns is not able to kill germs ingested through food until after two to three months, the requirements for the hygiene and quality of infant food must be particularly high. it is important that the eu prohibits all advertising measures aimed at discouraging mothers from breastfeeding. in some eu countries it is explicitly forbidden to present finished products as being completely equivalent or superior to breast milk. in practice, however, the wording on packaging, in advertising and on internet sites often suggests exactly this and thus violates eu or national law. we need to be more strict here. and it must be ensured that no substandard baby food can be imported from other countries. i voted in favour of the report on that basis.
in writing. − to keep informed of what is happening in the eu, it is useful for citizens of each member state to have documents available in their own language, as there can be misunderstandings in terms of comprehensibility, especially when technical terms are used in foreign languages. in particular, public consultations should be easily understandable and accessible to all, as they aim to gather the widest possible range of views from public and private stakeholders and individuals. i voted for this resolution because i believe that, in the spirit of democracy, every citizen must be given the opportunity to participate in the processes that are going on. it cannot be good in the long run to put the electorate in front of facts that have already been established. he must be allowed to criticize.
in writing. − first of all, it must be said that respect for human rights and the right to the free development of identity and culture, as well as respect for freedom of religion and association, are fundamental principles of the european union and its foreign policy. this is why it is all the more sad that the authorities of the people's republic of china are allegedly torturing in tibetan prisons, for example by beating and using electric shock weapons to force confessions. we can't have that happening nowadays. it is important that the strategic partnership between the eu and the people's republic of china is based, inter alia, on common principles and values. one step would be for the eu to make clear in talks with china that it rejects the continuing crackdown by the chinese authorities on tibetan monasteries and to urge the chinese government to guarantee freedom of religion for both the tibetan people and all its citizens. the next step would be to ask the chinese authorities to lift all restrictions and allow independent media, journalists and human rights observers unhindered access and freedom of movement throughout tibet. it is also important that the tibetan region be granted autonomy. i have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because it clearly expresses support for the rights of tibetans.
in writing. − the ep resolution calls for respect of human rights in tibet where represseion from the rupublic of china is still going on since 2008 protest. china has been applying since then restrictive security measures that curtail freedom of expression, religion and belief; the number of detained people and political prisoners is still rising as well as the use of torture methods to obtain confessions from prisoners. the ep highlights that the strategic partnership eu-china should be based on common shared principles and values and calls on the authorities of china to grant autonomy to the historical territory of tibet, respecting their own culture and human rights. the ep welcomes the democratisation process in tibet.
in writing. − the european market, called the internal market, was founded on the four fundamental freedoms - the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital - and was extended by consolidating economic integration, introducing a common currency and the cohesion policy. the benefits of the internal market are undeniable and essential for european economic growth, which is why further development is desirable and necessary. finally, there are 20 million businesses across the eu, creating 175 million jobs and serving 500 million consumers in the eu alone. i am voting against the resolution because, while economic growth is undoubtedly important to get europe out of its economic slump, a confederation of friendly european states would be quite sufficient, as we had essentially until the maastricht treaty. in addition, national interests are often victimized by the european centralisation mania and the population is subjected to a rigid austerity policy.
in writing. − the european commission stated that the single market implementation continues to face hurdles. in 2011, the ec published the single market act in order to complete the single market and with the clear view of boosting growth and confidence in the internal market and creating jobs in the current crisis context. the commission proposed 12 measures to address some of the remaining obstacles to the free circulation of goods, services, capital and people. although the council welcomed the proposal of the ec, some questions remain uncertain. the ep welcomed the commission's initiatve and called for stricter action to reduce the target deficit for transposition and compliance in national legislation.
in writing. − the main objectives of the european commission's european company law action plan are to guarantee freedom of establishment for companies throughout the eu, to increase the performance and competitiveness of companies, and to promote crossborder cooperation between companies in different member states. the europeanisation of balance sheet and capital market law is closely linked to european company law. while european accounting law has a number of common principles, it is still far from being fully harmonised by granting a variety of voting rights. i am voting against the resolution because i believe that the implementation of the european company law directive is the next step towards a common financial and capital union in which national, economic and social needs and principles will be of a much more minor importance.
in writing. − europe needs a company law framework that is adapted to the needs of the society of today and to the evolution of the economic environment. up to today, the eu company law has played a central part in building the single market. i supported this report because european company law is crucial to ensure legal certainty, to protect stakeholder's rights and makes it easier for business to develop across the eu.
in writing. - 140 million women and girls have been subjected to the traditionally established practice of genital mutilation and every year another 3 million girls are at risk of being subjected to this painful procedure with its harmful health consequences. with migration, the problem of genital mutilation has also come to europe. even second-generation migrants living in europe are often unable to resist this intervention. i agree with the resolution that female genital mutilation is an act of violence against women and girls, a violation of their fundamental rights, in particular their right to personal safety and security and to physical and mental health, as well as an attack on their sexual and reproductive health, and, in the case of underage girls, a case of child abuse, which cannot be justified by any cultural differences or initiation rituals.
in writing. − female genital mutilation has been documented in certain parts of africa, asia and middle east, and it is now being encountered in europe as well. most often, girls and women are taken to their countries of origin during school holidays to be mutilated. the european parliament estimates 500,000 girls and women living in europe are suffering with the lifelong consequences of female genital mutilation. fgm constitutes a persecution qualifying for being granted refugee status according to the international human rights standards as well as european law. however, because of lack of uniform implementation among all member states of the european union, women and girls are put at risk of being returned to countries where they could be subjected to fgm.
in writing. − it is regrettable that there are no clinical or epidemiological data on the potential risks of pip breast implants. furthermore, sampling of pip silicone implants showed that the casings produced by pip had weaknesses not found in other commercially available implants. this is dangerous for women, as many pip implants are made of non-medical silicone, which contains components that attack the implant shell and deposit in body tissue. some member states have advised women who have had such implants to consult their surgeons or to have their breast implant manufactured by pip removed as a preventive measure. it is therefore necessary to provide for the immediate introduction and implementation of basic and targeted emergency measures in accordance with the current legislation on medical devices. it would therefore be useful to carry out thorough unannounced checks on the medical devices with the highest risk in order to prevent such things. the commission should make an appropriate toxicological assessment mandatory for all medical devices and propose that all carcinogens, herbicides and toxic substances for reproduction be phased out of the market. it would be a good idea if member states were to impose sanctions for non-compliance with the new laws. i voted in favour of this motion for the reasons i have just mentioned.
in writing. − since 2003, breast implants are classified in the highest risk class of medical devices and are submitted to the most stringent pre-market review by a notified body to ensure their quality and safety. the adoption of this motion for resolution will contribute to the immediate adoption of measures under existing legislation to reinforce the system, in particular with regard to unannounced audits, sample testing and better data sharing. the health risk with regard to silicone implants should be as low as possible.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not a report on a weekend traffic accident involving a truck driver who fell asleep from exhaustion and crashed into the ditch has confirmed to me once again how necessary a clear and consistent regulation of driving and resting times and their control by means of a digital tachograph is for us, for road safety, but also for the people concerned themselves. the digital tachograph is a new innovation, but it has old problems as well as new ones. the new problems arise in new ways of manipulating which we must also master technically. the old problems are those which we can already observe, so to speak, in the controls or lack of controls in various member states. the new rules we are now introducing must, in my view, take account of the following: first, not every time a trip is not recorded, a pause is automatically triggered. because many drivers have to load and unload, and that is also, of course, to be considered as working time. the second problem is that the speed records have been removed from the file. i think that is wrong, because there are also great dangers of accidents here. we also want to have weight sensors, and we also want to have a hotline that's anonymous and can be tracked so that you can report fraud. what i will also be putting forward is a proposal to include animal transport control in this regulation. i think this is important because it must also be a very central element of our legislation.
mr. chairman, please. what one sows, another reaps, says an old latin proverb. that's what modern product hijackers do, when they copy successful products, sell them for a fraction of their value, and make shiny deals. many buyers are unaware that plagiarists not only avoid costly research and development but also cut back on the quality of the material. the consequences can be devastating. and the counterfeiters are getting bolder. not only the product, but the company's catalogue or the entire internet presence is imitated. recently, chinese counterfeiters have even copied western products, changed a detail, filed it as a patent in china, and then sued the manufacturer of the original european products. it is of course important to tackle piracy of brands and products through simple and unbureaucratic procedures without criminalising consumers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of intellectual property rights in the eu.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. water is one of the central resources we have at our disposal as a humanity. we have now prepared a report in parliament to provide the commission with some ideas for its blueprint for european water legislation which it intends to present in the autumn. of course, there are many factors that affect water budget, i'm thinking of climate change, population growth, urbanization, land use, etc. we have achieved a lot here in europe, particularly with the great work of the water framework directive of 2000, which provides a solid framework for dealing with our water problems. the integrated approach of the water framework directive is particularly interesting. it operates in river basin units, national boundaries are irrelevant. it also sets sustainability objectives: the aim is to achieve good ecological and chemical status for all european waters by 2015. however, we have several implementation gaps, as we have unfortunately now discovered. although 24 member states submitted 119 river management plans, four did not submit any plans; unfortunately, some member states do not have good status, such as sweden, france, belgium and the netherlands, and some have insufficient groundwater values, such as belgium, france, the united kingdom or slovakia. unfortunately, we also find that we don't have all the data we need to evaluate. the chemical status of 42% of european waters is unknown. we also have little comparable data, particularly on water scarcity and drought. you know that climate change has a strong impact on water resources. but still, our models, especially in terms of water management, are very inadequate. we find that there are huge efficiency gaps, especially among the big water users, that involve industry, agriculture and energy production. we should be more clear about our objectives here. the regional dimension is certainly one approach to tackling these challenges, and i believe that it needs to be strengthened. europe uses only about 13% of its water resources, but with extreme geographical dispersion. eight member states are experiencing water stress, which is 46% of the european population. my member state, for example, uses only 3%. so there can't be one-size-fits-all solutions because the problems are too diverse. we also need to demand mainstreaming, so that the major water users or the policy areas that influence water legislation, such as agricultural policy and regional policy, also start thinking more in water areas. we have achieved a great deal in this area, for example, we have already spent eur 14 billion on waste water treatment in the european regional policy and we have also connected an additional 12% of citizens to the waste water network. however, there is still a lot of money - think of romania and bulgaria - that is not actually being used. the commission should also take a more active role in this area. but in the field of agricultural policy, which is now being greened in the new period, this 'blueing' factor, that is, concern about the impact on water, should also be given greater weight. it is particularly important to me that the water sector is also of great economic importance and that europe can make a significant contribution to this; growth rates of 5% compared to 2.5% for the rest of the economy have already been recorded. europe has a lot to offer in this area and i very much hope that the commission will also take the water sector into account in the new horizon 2020 research programme.
i have to say, madam president, given the amount of water used to produce a biotomat in a spanish greenhouse and the fact that in the southern eu countries agriculture is particularly affected by water leakage from outdated pipes, it seems a little strange that the commission is suing germany, austria, denmark, finland and sweden for water waste. the european water framework directive requires industry, hydropower plants and farmers to be tested for their water consumption. the debate on indirectly imported water and the accusations are of little use, since the sunny south produces more fruit and vegetables than the rainy north. but we must also consider the consequences of a strict water conservation policy, which not only causes clogged and rotting drains, but also causes germs to spread in the drains. it is of course sensible to start with the major water users - industry and agriculture - because they really have the greatest potential for saving.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i should like to take this opportunity to thank the shadow rapporteurs and all the other members for their participation in the debate, as well as the commissioner and his team with mr gammeltoft, who are pursuing a very ambitious water policy, as we have heard in the speeches. it is a common thread in all the statements that we need european regulation - we have it in principle in the water framework directive - but that we must also put a strong emphasis on this regional approach. unfortunately, it is precisely in the area of implementation that the gaps and differences between member states exist, as pointed out by many of my colleagues. the commission is particularly called upon to look at which member states are lagging behind, and unfortunately it is not always the poor member states but also the richer member states. chris davis has listed a few. the commission must put its finger on the problem here, because europeans have a right to clean drinking water - and that is a good thing! it is also crucial that we actually implement these efficiency gains that we have just mentioned. my credo is: we must not only start with consumption - it is important to increase efficiency here - but also with supply. the great economic opportunities lie in new technology, particularly in the supply side. here europe can do a lot to ensure that we remain very strong in european and global markets. what i did not understand - and i say this quite frankly - was the criticism that came in particular from mr ferreira and from the left, who are now tabled their own resolution. it is clear in the report and has been confirmed by the commissioner that access to drinking water, which is guaranteed by the un charter, is a human right. i said that, and it was also a majority. so why are you now starting an ideological debate about water, mr president, i do not understand at all! but i want you to answer me one more question: do you really think that every portuguese has the right to fill a swimming pool for free? that's the central question you have to ask yourself. the point here is that everyone has access to the drinking water they need, but water in general has to be managed somehow, because there are costs involved. article 9 of the water framework directive is clear: economic means should also be used to promote the most efficient consumption and use. i am glad that the commission has taken this opportunity to make a statement on the matter.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, madam prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank you very much for your presidency and especially for the list you have read today of all that has happened under the danish presidency. it's an impressive list, i have to say. of course, the danish presidency was overshadowed by two factors which did not make it easy for it, firstly the economic crisis - i am very glad and we will probably come back to this - and finally the fact that at the last summit we managed to take some positive steps towards growth, because this is absolutely necessary to overcome the crisis - and then of course the action of the european council. the patent directive has been mentioned. this house has been fighting for a european patent for years. the result will overcome the quarrels and animosities between individual countries. but at the last moment, some countries managed to spoil the good result. i think it is very strange that the united kingdom, for example, which always criticises the fact that we have three seats in the european parliament, has insisted that there should be three seats for the patent judiciary. (applause from the centre) that's a line that's absolutely intolerable. so you can see what some governments are really about. the budget was similar. the european council has intervened again, but this was saved by the colleagues in parliament and the danish presidency. the european council - i will say this to mr van rompuy - should do its job! he is not to make detailed legislation! that is not the task of the european council, it is the task of the council to legislate together with the european parliament. this has to be clarified! secondly, i would like to stress the energy efficiency directive. it is not just a matter of a directive, it is a matter of an attitude, a direction! i am grateful to mr turmes and mrs britta thomsen and to all the others for having fought so hard. we wanted more, of course, they wanted more, but again, it was some countries that were preventing us from really making a big step forward. but i hope that with your continued support as the country of denmark, we can bring about this energy revolution, that we can create these thousands and perhaps even millions of jobs that have potential here. we all ask: where is the work? we're running out of work. no, we will not run out of work if we concentrate in particular on the energy transition, if we want to carry out the so-called greening of the economy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the crisis. we have achieved a very great deal here, and i hope that some of the countries that are resisting now will come to see that in the future we should have really binding energy efficiency regulations. in conclusion, madam prime minister, i would like to congratulate you on your election, namely on the election of mr wammen as minister for europe, because he has really done a great deal to ensure that the danish presidency has been successful in many areas. i would like to thank you, mr. wammen, for that. they have set a good example of how to act in a european manner and at the same time represent the interests of one's own country. so if the danish presidency has many successes to boast of, it is mainly thanks to you. thank you for your work. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all know that people across europe have long largely perceived the eu as a kind of brussels bureaucratic moloch, a moloch where decisions are made behind closed doors over people's heads. the danish proposal to restrict access to the files of the brussels administration and government would undoubtedly have been a serious setback in this respect for the efforts to increase transparency. it was given up at the last minute, thank god. in the context of the schengen reform, however, it is undoubtedly an exaggeration to speak of renationalization, since it falls within the competence of the member states, which are ultimately responsible to their citizens. the council presidency has not therefore taken an anti-european decision, but has, on the contrary, at least once put a stop to brussels' rage for centralisation. however, turkey should never have been rewarded with visa facilitation for its lack of cooperation in combating illegal immigration. copenhagen, which has always seen itself as a bridge builder between the euro and non-euro countries, has, however, succumbed to the centralization mania in the area of fiscal self-determination of eu countries and paved the way for debt union. the danish presidency of the council was thus, as it were, digging a debt trap for net payers, but it was careful not to fall into it. this is probably why the referendum on denmark's closer ties to the eu and the euro was postponed. overall, however, it must be said that all the efforts of the danish presidency to achieve sustainability in a european debt union will prove futile.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. this summit has the potential to go down in the history of the european union and the eurozone as a turning point. there are many things that have been decided here that can bring us forward positively, if it is also recognized by the heads of government who have decided so - i will come to that later - and if the commission and this parliament now also make the concrete proposals for this legislation, for example on the banking union. it means saying goodbye, saying goodbye to merkozy, saying goodbye to a structure where two - i correct myself - one thought it could determine what went well in europe and what did not. i am very grateful to president hollande for strengthening the social democratic voice. i am also very grateful to mario monti, who has shown with the same tenacity as mrs merkel that things cannot go on like this. and i also thank mr rajoy, because mr rajoy has also noted that there must be changes in europe if we do not want a fatal crisis to befall the eurozone and europe as a whole. we're seeing light at the end of the tunnel, but we're not through the tunnel yet, and everybody's right. but at least we see the light. and now is the time to move toward that light. there are two possible economic cycles between which we have to choose. one is austerity, which reduces growth and investment and increases the deficit. this is the cycle we're in. and the other cycle is growth and investment, which reduces the deficit and increases the budget balance and therefore growth and employment. today we have the highest unemployment rate in the eurozone, so it is high time that we implement what we decided at the summit and do even more. the unemployed deserve to be promised that we will actually do this. this is not a departure from the reforms. are you saying that mr monti is not making reforms in italy? then say it here, plain and simple. are you saying mr rajoy is not making reforms in spain? then you should say it here! but what is the point of reform if there is no growth to support the reforms? what was decided at the summit is actually the only chance that the reforms can succeed at all, and therefore it is also right. but let me be clear: there are two prime ministers - i hear - who have already abstained from the summit resolution, who have said that they will not be able to agree to it. i have to ask the prime ministers of the netherlands and finland: did you sleep? it was late at night, so it could be. didn't you understand what was going on? or do you want to say something different at home than in brussels? in all cases, it is a scandal. mr van rompuy, i ask you to ask the two prime ministers to respect the outcome of the summit! (applause from the centre) i ask the commission to come forward now with proposals on banking union and many other things. the commission and the european parliament already pointed out two years ago the importance of having a real european banking supervision. the council and its members said at that time that this was all too much, that we had to take responsibility, not knowing or not wanting to know how the financial systems were linked and interconnected, and that we needed this european supervision. we could have had all this by now. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. if i may start with schengen, what has been done is scandalous. we have also made this quite clear to the council presidency. i am very grateful to you, mr president barroso, for once again supporting this very clearly today. european patent: since when, mr van rompuy, does the european council start making laws at midnight? that is not the council's job. legislation is the task of the council with the european parliament, but not of the european council. most prime ministers - and i wouldn't blame them - don't know the details of what they've left out of the scheme. is it really such a great solution - mr callanan owes me an answer - that the uk is now proposing three chairs? perhaps britain also wants an additional seat for the european parliament in london, which is also possible, before or after the referendum. i don't know what mr cameron is thinking. (applause from the centre) i am very grateful for what the president of the commission has said on this. the banking union, as i said, could have been achieved a long time ago. i still do not understand - mr van rompuy, it is perhaps not your fault - why the president of parliament is not invited to the debate. this is not a matter of detailed legislation, it is a matter of the future of europe. you are discussing the future of europe without a representative of the only directly elected body of the european union! i find that scandalous, that is an attitude i cannot accept! (applause from the centre) discuss with us, invite us in! as the example of the banking union shows, in almost all the groups in this house we have good ideas, we have them only before the council. it would be good if the council could come up with these ideas earlier by means of discussions with the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre)
mr president, the house! it's just plain ridiculous! the european council of ministers has already decided that the european union should be the first to take action in this field. that is to say, a wrong policy is now to be institutionalised even further, so to speak, by means of a fiscal union, an economic union, a political union, a sort of new eudssr. and all this is based on the paper of this gang of four, which is preparing a cold coup d'état and wants to be a profiteer of the crisis, namely a political profiteer of the current crisis. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. solidarity means transferring wealth from countries with a positive balance of payments to those with no balance of payments. why don't you tell people that, and then we'll see what people say about it. if you want democratic legitimacy, then you will hear from these people that these people reject it because they are not willing to take responsibility for banks and their speculative activities. the pact for growth and jobs is a collection of slogans, slogans and slogans that have come from a summit for the tenth time. so there is no confidence in me or in other people in europe that you will solve this crisis.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! it is taking too long for the council to decide what has been recognized as necessary and urgent and what has been demanded for years by the european parliament and the commission. i therefore urge first of all determination, determination in the preparation of political union, seriousness in the implementation of the decisions taken and sincerity in communicating the decisions to the citizens. the president, after hearing the president-in-office, referred to democratic legitimacy and cooperation. we too must not accept the decisions. we should put forward an own-initiative report on each decision, with the existing decisions and our demands, by autumn. secondly, we should make it clear - as it has been done - that the timetable and content of the roadmap can only be credible and successful with the european parliament and not without us. and thirdly, we should put forward a clear proposal by december at the latest on the convention on the preparation of political union - in terms of content, timing, staff and the political participation of civil society. only action can create credibility. we have enough council communiqués, they are going in the right direction. let's make nails out of heads!
in writing. the only sensible outcome of the summit is the planned central banking supervision. the fact that banks will also receive money from the efsf rescue fund in the future shows once again that the debt crisis in the eurozone is also affecting credit institutions, which have been driven to the wall by irresponsible managers. although equalization has led to disaster, centralism is still considered the panacea. italy and france have long been working to force net contributors, especially germany, into a debt and liability union. the role of germany as the eu's supernumerary master is to be incorporated into the treaties in order to tame the german economic giant in the long term. a blow to the economically successful euro countries is that bankrupt candidates are de facto to receive money from the efsf and the esm without any savings requirements. the fact that the troika is not to be able to control the budget while the budget is being respected is a free hand for fraud and all kinds of fraud. and the greek example shows where this leads when there is not enough control. the recent summit decisions have paved the way for a debt union. money flows from countries like germany, austria, or the netherlands to bankrupt candidates like spain, portugal and maybe italy are to become a permanent condition.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am convinced that the creation of a single european railway area will achieve the following: firstly, better service for customers; secondly, optimum use of the european corridors, but also an increase in the competitiveness of the railways. but to do that we need a strong regulator, one that can ensure more competition and make quick decisions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's railways are not affected by the accident. the report is very positive and i am happy to support it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am convinced that with the intelligent tachograph we will achieve more safety and less bureaucracy and administrative costs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road is not compromised. and it's more secure because it's going to help prevent theft or help track truck trains because it gives you location information. i am also convinced that there will be less bureaucracy and administrative costs because there is the possibility of external control and therefore there is no need to stop the lorry trains, that is, if the regulations are actually complied with. i am very pleased that there will be exceptions, for reasons of practicality, namely that craftsmen within a 100 kilometre radius will be exempt from the obligation to write a ticket, and that construction site transport with material deliveries will also be exempt. this is a practical solution in the interests of the construction industry. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for this report by mr seeber, but i would like to say that this report of course reveals that there are some shortcomings in the implementation of the water framework directive, which has been in force for 12 years. the country of origin of mr seeber and my own country, austria, should have changed the fees budget long ago. this is particularly clear from paragraphs 37 and 15. i consider it an anachronism of the special class that in his own home state, in particular, the majority of the federal states still calculate the budget for sewage and water according to the area of the dwelling. this has nothing to do with water-saving toll budgets anymore. i therefore appeal to the commission, and in particular to mr seeber himself, to ensure that austria finally meets the intention of the water framework directive, namely to convert the charging budgets to water-saving management. i welcome this report. i hope he will put more pressure on the commission to change this unfair system of charging, which is also a source of waste and waste water.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have of course voted in favour of the koch report. no reasonable person will have any fundamental objection to an ecall system that automatically notifies emergency services in the event of a major accident. i would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to another problem with the emergency number. the council of europe has recommended that all council of europe members establish a single europe-wide emergency number for children affected by abuse and violence. now there are still some countries which have not set up this emergency number, unfortunately including austria. i therefore appeal to all the representatives of this house to remind everyone of this emergency number for the prevention of violence and for the help to be given to children who are victims of violence and abuse, so that this emergency number problem can also be solved.
in writing. − the 2001-03 stock market crisis gave a boost to so-called risk-free investment, i.e. government bonds. the interest on government bonds was used to assess whether an insurer had sufficient funds to meet its obligations to its customers. after the depression, when the interest rate on 10-year federal bonds can no longer overcompensate and the value of the liabilities skyrockets because they are being matched by very low-interest bonds, there were various attempts at repair. the commission is now concerned that the current crisis, combined with the new solvency rules, could eliminate insurance as a long-term provider of capital and guarantees and therefore wants (after eight years of negotiations on new rules for the provision of capital and supervision for the sector, the so-called solvency ii) to continue to apply the old solvency i rules to existing insurance contracts. as some of the questions in this connection are still not fully settled, such as whether the old rules will make insurers again investors, i abstained.
in writing. − i believe that this change in status satisfies the needs and special characteristics of the territory of saint-barthelemy without prejudicing the interest of the european union, and therefore i supported it with my vote.
in writing. − the baltic sea macro-region, launched in 2009, aims to better address the economic and environmental problems in the region. based on this experience, a common framework of comparable frameworks for the different macro-regions in europe, which share common characteristics such as maritime space, mountain region, river basin, etc., has been developed to open up new possibilities for territorial cooperation projects under the cohesion policy. in principle, macro-regional projects may be positive for the eu's neighbourhood policy, but a macro-regional strategy of its own does not seem necessary. the danger is that it will be nothing more than a 'large' budgetary machine that will be inefficient and wasteful. the argument that an intergovernmental solution to the organisation of the macro-regions is absolutely to be avoided is also not understandable. i prefer spontaneous mergers, as has been the case in the past, for example in the danube region, to a centralized bureaucracy and have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − in principle, the creation of macro-regions based on common geographical features such as maritime space, mountain or river areas can generate synergies and meaningfully improve neighbourhood cooperation across borders. nevertheless, i do not think it necessary to set up an institutionalised macro-regional strategy of our own. the new bureaucratic structures must be rejected, not least because they involve additional financial and administrative costs. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european regional development fund. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − i acknowledge that macro-regional strategies put together a cohesive approach for territorial cooperation, meeting the demand for investing in europe on a territorial basis in this new way. macro- regional strategies also help rebuilding links and cooperating in a new fashion. in this regard, the rapporteur supports that macro-regional strategies should be based on the principle of multi-level governance, in order to ensure the collaboration among local, regional and national bodies. however, he also recognized that macro-regional strategies are a complex structure in terms of governance, harder to coordinate and to enable to cooperate with. i agree and therefore i supported this report with my vote. i support the implementation of a macro-regional strategy for the mediterranean basin, in order to structure this essential space for the future of europe.
in writing. − the ep voted today the adoption of its second reading position. the proposal was launched due to the hard situation of the railway sector in europe. every member state has a different level of infrastructure investments and there is a true lack of competitiveness in the railway sector. the council position at first reading slows the ambitious goal of the commission and ep; that is why the ep is committed at the second reading to foster the competitiveness and transparency, to create independent regulatory bodies and of course, to reach the single european railway area.
in writing. − with the ever-increasing volume of traffic on europe's roads, it is imperative to take measures to increase road safety. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. these are particularly high here, as drivers of transport companies are often under time pressure and over-tiredness is a frequent problem. it is true that there are two types of recording equipment - analogue and digital - which must be used, but it is still possible to manipulate these devices. however, driving too long with too few or too short breaks significantly increases the risk of accidents. i abstained because, while i agree with the rapporteur that the introduction of smart tachographs can make a positive contribution to the working conditions of truck drivers, i do not share the view that there is a need for an eu-wide regulation on the evaluation of tachographs, as proposed by the commission. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all transport operations.
in writing. - unfortunately, on europe's roads there are still serious accidents caused by overtired drivers of transport companies, freight forwarders, etc. drivers are often under a lot of time pressure, which means that they don't have much time to recover. intelligent tachographs as control devices could provide a solution. i have nevertheless abstained from voting because this very sensible idea should first be decided at member state level, adapted to the traffic situation.
in writing. − in my opinion, two important measures should be taken after the adoption of this report: the development of an application to provide interpretation and guidance to drivers through the harmonised interface of the tachograph should be encouraged, and the type approval of the software used by control officers should be introduced. both measures will ensure safety in road transport.
in writing. −piracy is becoming more common. global networking has made it easier for sellers to serve a worldwide market, and the increase in counterfeit products is enormous. in 2010, the number of registered trademark and product counterfeits doubled compared to the previous year, 2009. this is 79,112 cases. online sales were up by 200%. it is estimated that piracy costs european companies €250 billion a year. 85% of the contraband comes from china, which is a big market here. the european customs authorities are therefore called upon to examine with particular care goods coming from the far east. i am not going to vote on the amendments because i believe that the new regulation does not tackle the problem at its root, but that consumers may be criminalised in advance rather than being informed.
in writing. - intellectual property rights are fundamental to innovation and thus to growth. because an entrepreneur must be able to trust that the effort to create and produce a new or improved product is also economically worthwhile. given the increasing number of infringements and the growth of international trade in infringing goods, much of the eu's economic growth and jobs depend on the effective enforcement of intellectual property rights! every year, piracy of brands and products costs european companies some eur 250 billion! in addition to the negative consequences for businesses and workers, there is also a significant risk to the health and safety of consumers: in 2010, a full 14.5% of the goods withheld were goods that potentially pose a risk to the health and safety of consumers, such as food, personal care products, medicines, electrical household appliances and toys. customs authorities are in a comparatively good position to stop counterfeit products before they reach the internal market. but once they are in the community, it becomes much more difficult and expensive to take them off the market. the report is too sharp on the consumer side, and it would be better to rely on effective information rather than criminalizing consumers in the first place. that is why i abstained.
in writing. − i firmly believe that europe needs to toughen up its customs legislation so that it can prevent counterfeit products from entering the internal market. european customs authorities should be able to detain counterfeit goods in transit through the eu unless the importer proves that their final destination lies outside the eu. along with other measures, reversing the burden of proof from customs will help to undermine the global trade in illegal pesticides.
in writing. − to sum up: water is vital for life. sustainable water management is essential to ensure that all ecosystems have access to enough high-quality water. only then can they function properly and provide services that are essential for food and food security, health, society and the economy. there is an urgent need to carry out an assessment of the state of the european water network with regard to quality, ageing and interconnectivity, as up to 70% of the water supplying european cities can be lost through leaks in the network. it is therefore important to ensure that water quality is produced in a similar way in the eu countries. but i'm against the national water sovereignty being undermined. of course, one of the important things will be to ensure that water efficiency measures are in place in buildings so that water is not wasted unnecessarily. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the use of the water resources of the european union. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a very good one. i believe in improving water legislation and i believe that it will be achieved in the foreseeable future, so i have agreed to the proposal.
in writing. − excessive consumption of clean tap water and the consequences of global climate change are reasons for the eu to develop a ‘blueprint to safeguard europe’s water resources’. the recommendation includes concrete projects for water recycling which also involve territorial classifications of the eu, and a request for an integral approach water protection. i agree with the proposals concerning the protection of water for the public good and therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. - the basic idea of an emergency call service calling the nearest emergency call centre and that automatically is a good idea. but as so often happens, behind every idea there are gaps that need to be filled in order to create a "perfect" system. we live in a time when we can and must set the highest standards in technology. i believe that each member state should decide for itself whether it wants to install this system in cars, because it involves certain risks. it is important to bear in mind that in any accident, even if it is only a road accident, there is a risk that the system will be activated and send an emergency call, the emergency vehicles will arrive and they will only be able to detect damage to property, whereas in another accident they will not be able to arrive in time. this is something to consider. the system is also to be officially activated only when needed. this may be difficult to ascertain beforehand. the risk of abuse is also present in standby operation. i see this as a violation of privacy, because the ecall system can then tell you where you are, how fast you are driving, etc. for the reasons i have given, certain things need to be rectified or reconsidered, and i have therefore abstained.
in writing. − the commission decided in 2011 to adopt some legislative measures to introduce a binding ecall system, so it will be necessary to bring in a new regulation to ensure that all vehicles will be equipped with the right components to make an ecall possible. today parliament is voting on a motion for a resolution which reflects its points of view and main guidelines to the commission.
in writing. - the economic crisis has also left its mark on europe, although there are signs of stabilization in europe. nevertheless, high debt levels and rising oil prices pose further risks. in addition, europe still has to contend with the bankrupt states within the eurozone, whose very bad credit ratings make investment opportunities scarce. in addition, american rating agencies decide on the creditworthiness of european countries, which in turn can lead to difficulties in terms of investment and financing. as long as monetary stability is not established in the eurozone by countries such as greece, spain and portugal, it will probably be difficult to prevent economic and social inequalities between countries within the eurozone, as called for by the rapporteur. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. − the report discusses the position of the eu in the global economy as well as the consequences of this role, including challenges and duties. certain goals like the development of infrastructure for companies, education and research, support for smes and the protection of employees are to be supported. promotion of the european market’s attractiveness for international investors helps in the improvement of economic performance as well as the decline of unemployment rates.
in writing. - i agree with the resolution on the point that the recent 'arab spring' has put the eu's southern neighbours in the spotlight and the importance of the eastern partnership should not be overlooked. the historical links with the countries of the east are stronger, and they are also closer to us culturally. however, in view of china's continuously growing economic influence in the eastern partnership countries, i am not sure that the conclusion and implementation of the association agreements, including the deep and comprehensive free trade areas (dcfta), should be a priority objective and a priority requirement of the revised european neighbourhood policy in relation to the eastern partners. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. in view of the continuing dependence on energy policy, such an approach could quickly become a means of ownership. i therefore voted against the motion for a resolution.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to ask you a fundamental question about the procedure, a statement, before we begin a very important and very interesting debate, and i would ask you to give me an answer. i have a great deal of understanding and sympathy for many of the activities and activists who are opposing acta. but that's not all that matters to me. i would like to know whether it is now possible to distribute food to guests visiting parliament on all the items on the agenda. it is important that we clarify this, that we have an appropriate response, so that we can know in future how we should behave as members of parliament or how groups who want to say something on a subject should behave. i would ask that this be clarified and that i receive a reply not today but at the same time.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. the commission has already done so. first of all, the purpose of acta is a good one, namely to establish international standards for the fight against copyright infringement and product piracy. but acta is a perfect example of how the legitimate concerns of citizens should not be dealt with - namely, in an opaque way. there are a lot of serious concerns about acta, and those concerns have been taken into account by the legal affairs committee in rejecting acta. the intention of the agreement is to intervene in data protection and thus in the right to informational self-determination. the present agreement is too vague and i am therefore afraid that there may be different implementations in the participating states, to the detriment of our citizens. i am against the possibility of internet service providers monitoring citizens and may do so. i am afraid that the necessary renewal of copyright in europe will be restricted and anticipated by pressure from industry. so tomorrow we will vote a resounding no to acta!
question for the commissioner: the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr. fjellner, i'm disappointed in you. why can't you be honest? the european people's party only wants to delay the vote because it is in fact in favour of acta and hopes that it will then pass. that's the reason behind it. please tell me why you are for the american film industry and against the european internet users. and just for your information, mr fjellner, india will not benefit from acta at all because india is not a party to this treaty.
i have to say, madam president, i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to answer this question. i'm not sure what to do. i would simply say to him that acta is not a legal issue, but a political issue which we, not some court, have to decide. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let's just get this straight: acta is actually promoting the blocking of networks. acta is de facto promoting measures to monitor the internet. acta is a threat to data protection and to telecommunications secrecy. the vague wording of acta is more a political statement than a treaty of international law. that is why this house has already rejected this agreement in four committees. i warn you, i warn you, that we will either accept the agreement tomorrow or postpone the vote. that would be a massive loss of confidence in this house. i will personally vote against this agreement because i am a defender of the interests of users, of consumers and of fundamental rights. the following is also worth mentioning: if the agreement is rejected tomorrow, it will be a huge success for civil society. it was only through the protests that a change of opinion was possible in this house. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all those involved. i would like to conclude by saying something to the commissioner: i ask him, and i urge him, to take note of the vote tomorrow and not to engage in any democratic manoeuvres!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, you who speak for acta, you say here that you are defending europe's competitiveness. what, please? if those countries which supply the most counterfeits are not members at all, then the whole coalition of the willing here is going to be in the dust. it is pointless, but it gives us enormous problems when it comes to fundamental rights. the whole agreement is characterized by an extreme lack of legal certainty. we have completely open formulations from which you can make anything and nothing. this is not what the european economy needs and can need in competition. in this respect too, you are going in the wrong direction with acta. the third point is, yes, you are paving the way for the internet service providers to become, and want to become, deputy sheriffs. this is what we would call a privatisation of the law, and it is absolutely unacceptable. when it comes to fundamental rights, we decide politically! waiting for the ecj is pointless. make up your mind and say yes or no tomorrow. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. thank you very much for asking. why don't i wait for that decision? i was waiting in the legal affairs committee for the european people's party's agreement when we asked the necessary questions on legal certainty in relation to acta during the process. and there was silence in the forest and denial. you didn't mean to! it is now obvious that the ecj is to be used to delay, that is clear. why did i say that about the wide margin of interpretation? because they've asked me two questions, and i have to answer both, and unfortunately, it's like, from these broad phrases about internet surveillance by the isp auxiliary police, they can read everything out and interpret everything into them. and that means legal uncertainty. legal uncertainty is not good for our economy either, my dear colleague.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. one thing is clear: nothing worth stealing. it is therefore very important that we try to find a good compromise in the debate. we understand that some of this needs to be modernized. copyright must be adapted to the new digital world. we know the value of european cultural heritage. whether this is a livelihood for artists, journalists or authors depends on whether this content will be paid for in the future - directly by the consumer who appreciates this content and wants it - or whether in the future it will only be possible to price the content accordingly through advertising and promotional campaigns, thus giving artists and journalists a chance to earn their money and their fair wages at all. i think we need to revise the e-commerce directive as well. the question is quite simple: is it possible to make a sale below the starting price? what about price tags on the internet? how can we give citizens security in their dealings with copyright? i believe that the commission - and the european parliament - still have a great deal of work to do to find the necessary arrangements. i wonder what acta actually does, and this has been stressed today, if china, india and brazil are not involved at all. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question for the commissioner: mr rübig, a question: do you think that the ecj's opinion on acta should have been sought a year and a half ago, as many of us had already called for?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i believe that the opinion of the ecj is important. but it has been stressed many times in the house that this is also a political decision. i think that the political decision will depend on when the commission finally presents a modernised copyright law. finally, the question is: how do we deal with warning societies that really often unfairly punish digital consumers? and what rights will providers have in the future when they distribute content? from that perspective, we should work first. that is why i am in favour of postponing the vote to tomorrow. it is not until we have reached a consensus in this house on how we are going to develop the field of intellectual property that we should come to a decision. work first, then decide.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have already worked and that is why i want to decide, and i will decide tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen. this decision is not a legal one, it is a political one. the question is: do we want a product protection agreement in which the counterfeiters do not even show up? we don't want that! it's about the question: do we want private by private spying in the future? we don't want that! do we want privacy to be taken less seriously in the future? we don't want that! do we want to see civil claims being dealt with in criminal law in the future? no, we don't want that either! and if we do not want all this, ladies and gentlemen, and if we do not want to destroy the living environments of young people in europe, then we must vote against the postponement tomorrow and then we must vote against acta tomorrow. i will certainly do so, and i also call on my colleagues from the people's party, who have always said that they are against acta, not to delay now, not to hope that after the european elections no one will be watching what they are doing, but to ensure that the vote is held tomorrow and that everyone can show what is at stake. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
question for the commissioner: mr leichtfried, i would like to ask you: are you in favour of discussing the modernisation of copyright at european level? or are you completely against intellectual property? and how do you see e-commerce policy adapting to modern conditions in the future? i take it from your statement that you are opposed to any debate on these matters and are not in favour of intellectual property. is that true, or is that what i think it is?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i am in favour of a reasonable copyright. i'm all for a serious discussion of intellectual property. but, please, what does this have to do with the acta agreement? an agreement to combat product piracy by those who are not even part of the agreement! what does this have to do with acta? an agreement that ensures that young people may become criminals on the internet without actually committing criminal acts! this has nothing to do with acta, and that is why i am in favour of rejecting acta. we can talk about the other things, of course! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i have read the acta agreement carefully. if you read the acta agreement carefully, it doesn't help against internet bombing schemes. i don't think that bomb plans on the internet are protected by intellectual property rights. even if it were, i don't think that those who post bomb plans on the internet would later claim intellectual property rights from those who made the bombs. i don't think that's going to be the case. so thank you very much for asking. i am also against the use of such plans, but the acta agreement has little to do with it.
i have to say, madam president, we are now facing a structural, financial and economic crisis in europe which has lasted for years, a crisis which is accompanied in particular by a steady increase in youth unemployment. this is a social explosive which strains the resilience of all social structures from the family to state systems to the extreme. it affects a whole generation of people in the eu and requires a rapid political response. against this background, the 2013 draft budget is a correct and consistent response by parliament, as rigorous cuts have been made even in the staff of the eu institutions. the need for austerity in the institutions and at all levels of policy, and a simultaneous focus on growth and promoting growth for the future, is the need of the hour, both to strengthen citizens' confidence in the ability of politics and the eu to act and to create new jobs, so that young people in particular can once again have a future.
in writing. commissioner, you are late! the commission's 2011 work programme already announced that it would present a legislative proposal to ensure that all consumers legally resident in the eu have access to basic banking services. there are 30 million eu citizens who are still denied access. in austria alone, for example, 150,000 people live in households without a checking account, and the majority of these are involuntary! financial exclusion is a major problem, so the basic account must be cheap, it must have a ceiling on fees and it must cover all basic transactions so that europe's citizens can do their basic everyday business. commissioner, please act and convince the commission quickly so that we can deal with this proposal in parliament soon.
the commission has already done so. it is extremely regrettable that despite numerous trilogue negotiations, no agreement was reached with the council, particularly because of the open horizontal issues. it was a negotiation which has now dragged on for over a year, which has cost everyone a great deal of time and effort and which, in its failure, has ultimately missed its purpose. the main aim was to complete the rather technical aspect of formal adjustment under the lisbon treaty before the actual negotiations on the future of the common agricultural policy. i would like to make one point very clear to the council: parliament has clearly shown its willingness to compromise in numerous negotiations. on the contrary, i have missed the council's response to this question, if it was possible to negotiate at all, since the council often had no negotiating mandate at all. i certainly do not want to speculate, but if anyone thinks that this central area is now being neglected by parliament in the negotiations on the reform of the common agricultural policy, he is mistaken. we will confirm our committee position in the plenary tomorrow and go into the negotiations on the common agricultural policy with a clear mandate.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to make a brief comment on mr daul: i would be glad if you were half as critical of hungary as you are of romania. but as far as the violation of european rights is concerned, we are on the side of european law and european values, independent of any country. mr president, i welcome you here with your minister for europe, who will certainly do a very good job, because he brings the right commitment. the presidency will not be an easy one, we cannot promise you that. we can promise you that we will help solve the problems, but it will not be an easy presidency. the economic crisis will remain. the banking crisis is still very strong. i am very grateful to the president of the commission for making it clear that the european parliament should have a full say in the establishment of the new banking supervision, as we have been calling for a long time. of course, there must be special rules for the eurozone. but we must not forget - and cyprus is an example - that even if you are not in the euro zone, you can see this with greece and romania, and yet there can be massive effects of a harmful nature. and the events at barclays bank show that there are still many bankers who speculate with other people's money, and there are still many bankers who believe they can manipulate the market, and you can't tell. this has to stop! we need efficient banking supervision in europe, and this must be achieved as well as greater transparency for all banks in the coming months. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i know there's some skepticism in your country, but it's absolutely necessary that we get to the financial transaction tax. not that it's gonna solve all our problems. but, mr president, you have spoken of the need to distribute the economic and social burdens more equitably. the financial transaction tax is a small but not insignificant contribution to the fairer distribution of economic burdens, to the financial sector's contribution to the crisis management. i think that is absolutely necessary. i want to get to the budget. mr daul said there was a christmas present. i hope he's right, and i hope it's a gift and that christmas isn't just celebrated with a bad compromise. there are the friends of better spending and there are the friends of cohesion. if the friends of better spending think they have to push through less spending and drastic budget cuts, then they don't have us on their side. mr cameron is of that opinion. they are already trying this with great success in the uk, you can see the great popular support. if the friends of cohesion think that we simply have to spend more money and the matter is settled, they do not have us on their side either. we in the socialist group - and i think this is the majority in this house - want to have a budget which is efficient, which can do its job, which contributes to growth - this is absolutely essential - and which also contributes to productivity and competitiveness. but you cannot cut back and say: 'do more for growth' and cut back on resources other than those you need at the moment! if mr cameron needs a large institution in his constituency and in his neighbouring constituency, then of course he wants to have it funded, but when it comes to the cohesion areas where we really have something to do, where we have to help to bring about growth, whether that is now - the president mentioned that in his speech - in poland or in lithuania or in other countries, then suddenly we want to make the big cuts. we say no! this is not appropriate! we cannot say we need more investment, more growth, more employment, but then we turn our attention to cutting financial resources. i am very glad that there has been a move in france away from this simple method of cutting. i am very pleased that mrs merkel in germany, even after talks with the spd, has recognised that the budget should be of a certain size in order to contribute to growth and development. i would of course like to say to mr daul that i would like to have a christmas present, not for us, not for parliament, not for the council, not for the commission, but for the people of europe who are in dire need of it. we are coming closer with the cypriot presidency to a region which is still affected by a major crisis - we are never coming closer to it than with cyprus - namely the crisis region of the middle east. i know that the cypriot government has very good relations with the countries of the middle east and will take full advantage of that. the last point concerns turkey. i am deeply sorry, also as a friend of turkey, for the way turkey is behaving towards the cypriot presidency. the cypriot presidency is the presidency of the european union! (applause from the centre) and if turkey boycotts the cypriot presidency, it is boycotting the european union! we remain committed to the vision of a common cyprus in which turkish and greek cypriots can live together in peace. both are citizens of europe! and that vision will guide us onward! (applause from the centre)
mr president, kalimera to president christofias and may i congratulate him and his team on an excellent preparation for cyprus’s first presidency. president christofias, in your history it is certainly another milestone. one of the smallest and one of the youngest eu member states is taking up such a big challenge in these extremely difficult economic times in the european union. two parts of your programme are of the utmost importance: the focus on citizens and the multiannual financial framework. in these difficult and really tight times we need to put eu citizens first in order to have a strong union able to compete in the world. regarding the turkish threats to your presidency, the eu has to stay united and speak with one voice on the issue. we have to make it very clear that all un resolutions have to be fulfilled and eu laws and values have to be respected. it should be condemned by all of us that a candidate country is knocking on europe’s doors with weapons. please let us all work together and support our presidency.
question for the commissioner: i would like to thank mr garriga polledo because the question of how the eu budget is going is of crucial importance to us. mr garriga polledo, do you think that, in terms of the budgets which are being increased each year in the member states and reduced in a few, the average increase could actually be a target for the european union? what do you think?
ladies and gentlemen, we now come to the catch-the-eye procedure. i have to tell you that i have more than ten oral questions at present, but unfortunately i cannot take them all into account this time for reasons of time, because we have another item on the agenda before the vote. i ask you to understand. catch the eye
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we thank you, we wish you well in your european political responsibilities and we hope for a successful cooperation! the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the preparation of the commission's 2013 work programme. i must remind all members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure on this item of the agenda, only speakers of the political groups.
the debate was closed by the tabling of six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 110 (2). we must then vote to postpone the vote to september, as announced. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12.30 p.m. on wednesday.
mr president, of course we are very sorry about what has happened in spain, but if i may, i would like to draw your attention to a declaration which seems has been made by the prime minister of britain. i would ask my colleagues from britain perhaps to look into that. many of us saw reports that the prime minister, mr cameron, had said that, if greece were to leave the eurozone, he would introduce particular border controls against greek people. i am sorry to hear some applause for that. maybe this declaration is not true. but if it is true, i would like – because i know there are many responsible conservative colleagues here – to ask the prime minister to refrain from such declarations. we do not need this kind of declaration or this kind of action against certain citizens of the european union. therefore, this is my request to colleagues. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have the urgent need to clarify that there has been some confusion after the referral back, after the deferral request. i have heard that, following your announcement, the agreement itself will be put to the vote, which is why my colleagues and i voted against it, because we are firmly convinced that we should not conclude this agreement at all. there are many reasons for this. the report by mr martin itself, however, states that parliament refused to give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement, that is to say that the report should have been approved. i therefore feel the need to make it clear that i have rejected this commission proposal and the council proposal on the conclusion of a trade agreement, i reject acta and therefore should have voted in favour of the martin report itself if it had been put to the vote in this way.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. acta is much more than acta, it is a lesson in wrong and unprofessional policy. the legitimate concern to protect european industry from product piracy is in principle to be welcomed, since our competitive advantage is not in low unit labour costs but in knowledge. but to do that, china and india should have been brought in to support such an agreement, and above all, it should not have been burdened with the demands of the music and entertainment industries. and above all, they should not have allowed internet service providers to be made into a kind of deputy sheriff. the copyright issue is too important to be settled by a trade agreement. this was an attempt to solve 21st century problems with 19th century methods. the commissioner responsible for the matter in particular failed. he has bypassed parliament, in the style of an outdated cabinet policy. mr de gucht should take the consequences and resign from the office, which is obviously overwhelming him.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have rejected all the motions for resolutions except the one on the edf, which i have approved. i would like to explain why, in addition to what i said yesterday on the council document. the fourth group is trying to exploit the crisis in europe to establish a european superstate through the back door and by exploiting this crisis, with all the proposals i criticised yesterday. but this summit was the 19th summit of confusion. i now come to another proof that this european union is a mere weather programme and cannot cope with crises: this proposal from the banking supervisory authorities. why should banking supervision work when the european union's supervision of states' compliance with the maastricht criteria has not worked? who shares this optimism? that means the next failure is pre-programmed. and all this is to be used to finance the banks directly in the future, bypassing the esm treaty. it is difficult to imagine that during the ratification process the council itself is breaking the rules with its own proposals for direct financing of the banks. this is outrageous!
in writing. − in the european commission’s legislative proposals on the new cap, it was proposed that direct payments should be better targeted, including specifically to young farmers through an annual top-up of direct payments representing up to 2% of the national envelope for the first five years after installation. i support both the mandatory aspect of the young farmer top-up in pillar i of the new cap and the higher co-financing ratio and improved measures for the pillar ii sub-programme including young farmers.
in writing. − if we are to keep producing locally-grown, high-quality food for european citizens then generational renewal in the sector must be secured and the downward trend in young farmer numbers must be reversed. that is why it is crucial that the top-up in pillar i stays mandatory for all member states, just as the co-financing ratio in pillar ii stays favourable: the future of the common agriculture policy is dependent on an effective common installation policy. today’s reports have given the european parliament an opportunity to back important measures to promote generational renewal in the sector, and the young farmers of europe are counting on other meps to mirror mr capoulas santos’ support for measures to enhance demographic sustainability as well as to encourage member states to endorse such a crucial policy for generational renewal in european agriculture.
in writing. − it is not by chance that a policy to which an important part of the eu budget is allocated is the one that regulates the rural development of large areas of the eu and guarantees that farmers can continue producing in compliance with certain requirements that are designed to protect consumers and the environment.
in writing. − russia's accession to the wto and the resulting framework will open up more opportunities for the european economy. this revision of the partnership and cooperation agreements will not only improve access for entrepreneurs but also the position of companies already established in russia. i welcome this agreement, as i see it as another means of improving the position of european smes in russia.
in writing. − the inclusion of russia in the wto will allow the opening of the russian market to foreign services; russia will grant more favourable treatment than before to foreign suppliers in eleven sectors covering, inter alia, professional services, construction, telecommunications and financial services. we must not forget that currently trade in services represents approximately 20% of european exports to russia. this means that the eu has a special interest in signing this agreement to keep the commitments that the eu is already enjoying; russia’s commitments will not only create additional business opportunities for european companies, but will also improve the situation of european exporters and investors currently working with russia.
in writing. − this agreement between russia and the eu will support the european automotive industry in the event of a decline in eu exports to russia due to the russian automotive investment programme. that is why i am in favour of this agreement.
in writing. − the fact of russia joining the world trade organization has not prevented the maintenance of some trade-distorting measures, among them the requirement that foreign car manufacturers are located in russia, encouraging job creation, in return for privileges related to the importation of car parts – a situation that certainly hurts european industry. although the deadline to remove this measure is july 2018, the eu has negotiated a bilateral agreement to provide a mechanism for compensating eu producers or automotive components that are affected by a possible decline in exports to russia.
in writing. − this agreement commits russia not to impose additional export duties on raw materials. this obligation applies to a number of raw materials listed in the agreement. this is a clear advantage for european smes. however, greater attention must be paid to a follow-up agreement. i am in favour of this agreement and have therefore agreed to it.
in writing. − the main benefit is russia's commitment that no export duty will be imposed or increased on these raw materials. if russia still wishes to do so, it should consult the european commission at least two months in advance. at the same time, the ep report also contains some criticism of the agreement. first, russia only undertakes to 'do its best' and 'consult' with the commission. such wording is not sufficiently binding. second, the agreement does not provide for a bilateral dispute settlement mechanism. the agreement is therefore to be considered as a temporary solution. a more legally binding agreement should be concluded and incorporated into the new russia-eu partnership and cooperation agreement. while the agreement does not completely rule out unexpected actions by russian partners, it is an important guarantee that economic relations with russia will enter a more stable and predictable phase. as rapporteur for the ep, i called on my colleagues to support the agreement and i voted in favour. i consider this to be a positive interim solution until a more legally binding agreement is reached.
in writing. − in the context of its accession to the world trade organization, the russian federation has pledged to reduce or phase out its current export duties for a list of raw materials. however, the list does not prevent the establishment of export duties on new or additional materials not included on it. among such materials are agricultural products and seeds, tobacco, chemicals, ferrous metals and energy minerals, etcetera – all materials very important for eu. the eu has negotiated this agreement with russia to avoid the establishment of new restrictions on export duties. under the bilateral agreement the russian government is committed to doing everything possible not to introduce or increase export duties for raw materials listed in the agreement; in this way, if russia wants to apply export duties on such products, it will consult the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of postponing the vote on acta and therefore abstained. the eu commission has asked the european court of justice for an opinion on acta. i would have liked to have waited for this one, since it might have brought light into the darkness. many questions remained unanswered until the end. but decisions should only be made when all the facts are on the table. this was not the case with acta. that's why i'm not going.
in writing. − the protection of intellectual property is a legitimate concern, especially as it also affects europe's competitiveness. the participating nations or associations of states want to establish international standards in the fight against product piracy and copyright infringement with acta. however, it is feared that this may also severely restrict the freedom of individuals on the internet. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. internet service providers would be de facto obliged to monitor their customers' data traffic and report any errors immediately. i voted against acta because it is still unclear how privacy can be guaranteed. the commission is also concerned about the massive restrictions on freedom of information on the internet. it is also impossible that a subject which is really intended to concern every citizen should be discussed in private. the acta agreement has a number of pitfalls, including a number of vague provisions that can open the door to abuse.
in writing. − acta is a plurilateral agreement negotiated between the eu, the us, australia, canada, japan, mexico, morocco, new zealand, singapore, south korea and switzerland aiming at preventing trade in counterfeit physical and digital goods by enforcing ipr. opposition to acta: - few positive effects because the countries in most counterfeit goods originate (china) are not a party; - goes beyond eu acquis and breaks the balance between ipr protection and fundamental rights such as right to information and education, freedom of expression, rights accessible healthcare, protection of privacy and data protection, etc. to that end, the agreement introduces the possibility for states to introduce laws forcing isps to disclose information about subscribers with a simple allegation by a right-holder for such disclosure. moreover, the agreement introduces criminal sanctions for ‘commercial scale’ infringements and this without a proper definition of the term ‘commercial’. the agreement could also compromise the export of generic medicines to poorer countries. inta, which led parliament’s scrutiny of acta, and 4 other committees (civil liberties, industry, legal affairs and development) recommended that parliament should reject the agreement. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the ep should give its consent to international agreements.
in writing. − the present proposal aims to establish the financial rules for the transitional year 2013, setting net ceilings for direct payments for the calendar year 2013. this will ensure the continuity of payments during the phasing-in of direct payments in the new member states and the phasing-out of optional modulation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, it should be stressed once again that it is not appropriate to allocate funds for rural development while at the same time depriving rural regions of infrastructure (schools, post office, etc.).
in writing. − in order to ensure the continuity of payments during the phasing-in of direct payments in the new member states, this report sets out the financial provisions for the transitional year 2013, setting net ceilings for direct payments for the calendar year 2013. it is important for me as an austrian that the special situation of the high alpine region as an outermost region be taken into account. that is the case, and i have no objection to the report.
in writing. − this report focuses on the successive reforms of the cap which have increased market orientation for agriculture while providing income support to producers, so that now the same reform process has raised demands for a better distribution of support among and within member states, as well as calls for a better targeting of measures aiming at addressing environmental challenges and better addressing increased market volatility. as for young farmers this report suggests that member states should stick to the 25% increase in the direct payments that the commission is proposing but the rapporteur is also suggesting that there should be a limit on this increase of 50ha for all eu farmers, with which i agree and therefore i supported this report with my vote.
in writing. − the report covers the commission's annual strategic planning for the 2013 budgetary procedure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner. as a member of the committee on foreign affairs, i regret to say that there are massive cuts in the geographical programmes of the development cooperation instrument in asia, central asia, iraq, iran and yemen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. the next multiannual financial framework needs to be scrutinised in depth to ensure that the budget is implemented as efficiently and effectively as possible. in addition, the european court of auditors found in 2010 that commitments not yet settled had increased by almost 10% to eur 194 billion, which, at the current settlement rate, is equivalent to almost three years of expenditure. i am of the opinion that the eu budget should be capped. i'm not in the mood for a raise in a time of crisis. for these reasons i voted against this motion.
in writing. − animal welfare is now a very important issue in society. on the one hand, people care about the welfare of farm and domestic animals, and on the other hand, they also care about human health. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. for this reason alone, a great deal has been done in recent years in the area of animal welfare through legislation at national level and directives at eu level. i voted in favour of the report because i agree with the rapporteur that we need to pay much more attention to the need to comply with existing animal welfare rules. the commission must be able to impose sanctions on those member states which fail to comply with the directives adopted. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes.
in writing. − the strategy for the protection and welfare of animals 2012-2015 (commission communication) can be seen as an open door, leading to a clear and equivalent animal welfare level within the eu, and it is much welcomed as far as it contains so many aspects of parliament’s resolution of 5 may 2010. a high level of animal welfare is a part of sustainable development and is important to protect animal health, public health and the productivity and competitiveness of the livestock sector in europe. complex european and national rules on animal welfare, and lack of compliance and enforcement regarding certain pieces of animal welfare legislation, create legal uncertainty and distort competition. there is a need for a new approach to animal welfare based on the science and proven experience which has been acquired over the last years, and where the legislation is easy to understand and easy to control. the new strategy presents a broader approach calling for policy coherence (animal welfare should be given greater attention in the eu’s consumer policy, in the framework programmes for research and in the cap) and coordination of financial resources (proper budget for actions listed).
in writing. − stray dogs are a huge problem in many parts of the eu. in the southern countries in particular, many dogs live on the streets - a fact that is treated differently from country to country - sometimes they are tolerated and sterilized, sometimes they are killed. in eastern countries such as hungary, street dogs and surplus dogs are sent to so-called slaughterhouses, where they are usually brutally slaughtered, as it is inexpensive. another problem in the orient is the dog trade. many breeds, especially popular in the west, are bred in large numbers to be sold cheaply in the border area. the consequence of this dog trade is an overpopulation of animals that are not finding customers and are seriously ill. i abstained because i think the resolution does not deal enough with the trade in animals, especially from eastern countries. here, dogs are produced in large numbers under the most cruel conditions, and then sold to the west at a profit. this is often done under the guise of animal welfare, but it is the most brutal trade that can also lead to animal diseases that have long been extinct in this country being brought back.
in writing. the decisions taken at the recent eu summit in the fight against the euro debt crisis represent a final breakthrough for the united debt states of europe. the esm is likely to drag us into the abyss. germany is also becoming aware that it is being blackmailed by other countries. this will not create a good european spirit in the long term. unlike austria, however, the netherlands and finland will not want to be involved in all decisions. so the ultimate ratio has already begun. the crisis has shown that the catastrophe is moving faster than all the decisions. this will also be seen in greece. i therefore rejected this motion for a resolution in the strongest possible terms.
in writing. − it is estimated that 7% of the adult population of the union (about 30 million people) have no bank account. the resolution calls on the commission to promote new standards by january next year to end financial exclusion. the payment service providers must provide access to a basic payment account for free or at reasonable cost.
question for the commissioner: mrs jensen, you spoke of experiences in denmark. as regards project bonds, you stated that there could be problems with the guarantee. are you not also concerned that the fact that there should be a hedge in the first place will ultimately provide beneficiary pension funds with profits again via the detour of the public authorities? what would you suggest to actually counteract that? keyword: limitation of the guarantee assumption or corresponding cap.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as always, when mr turmes speaks, he is very clever and one would wish that what he says would have a much greater impact on european politics. i was just going to check it out. of course, these project bonds are a bit clever, but only if they are sustainable and if the political foundations are also created. we are in danger of using guarantees to cover risks which are beyond our political control. in concrete terms, the energy transition in germany would require 3,800 kilometres of railway network, but only 100 kilometres of corresponding transmission lines have been built, because it also fails to meet the resistance of citizens, who are very ecologically oriented. we'll have to come up with something politically. one idea is to create common ten corridors, not just combining the high-speed rail and broadband networks, but perhaps building a cable network over and alongside the motorway. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the schengen rules have been made a central dogma of this new secular eu-religion by the eu apologists in recent years. now you see that another dogma is collapsing. ministers who attacked denmark two years ago now have to admit in a low voice that they cannot do without additional border controls, especially in connection with the illegal migration movements on the turkish-greek border. i therefore welcome the decisions taken by the home ministers. and i would appeal to them not to take anything back but to consider whether they will need to make further adjustments if the economic crisis continues to worsen as it is now. and to all those who today ignore the problems of crime victims, i would say that this is cynical in dealing with these injured citizens. and in conclusion, i would like to ask you not to introduce visa facilitation for turkey, because that is sending the wrong signal to turkey at the moment! we should make it clear to turkey that it is its duty to ensure that there is no massive illegal immigration into the schengen area! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. madam president, i do not know whether you have noticed that there is a border between turkey and greece and that this border has been increasingly used for illegal migration for several months, and that subsequently several migration movements from greece to the european union take place and that not all those who come are actually refugees, but many even bring a criminal energy. i don't know if you've noticed that. many citizens who have been victims of crime have noticed this.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! unfortunately, we must acknowledge that there are increasing violations of the schengen treaty and we also know that the external borders are not monitored everywhere to the same high standards. we know that the council clearly wants to decide for itself whether or not to reintroduce border controls for up to two years. it is as if in a football game the players themselves decided whether someone has committed a foul and a penalty is awarded or not. the majority in the european parliament wants the great achievement of freedom of movement without border controls to remain intact, and we will do everything we can to ensure that this does not happen. what does the european parliament want? the european parliament is of course in favour of introducing border controls for a short period in emergency situations. we also demand that in the event of serious deficiencies a decision be taken on whether and for how long border controls will be introduced. but this must be done at european level after an objective review by the commission, and of course we also demand that there be evaluation mechanisms - but with a subsequent decision at european level. the european parliament - and i am convinced that the majority of those present here - will be strongly committed to ensuring that citizens continue to enjoy freedom of movement and security in the long term - this is guaranteed by schengen - and that actions not motivated by populism are not imposed in the future, as has happened in denmark. i would like to conclude by appealing to the council to do everything possible to bring the ministers of the interior back to the path of reason and cooperation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we must simply acknowledge that the abolition of border controls has not only brought convenience, as admittedly the ease of travel. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it. the undesirable side effects are well known to all of us: broken homes, vacated houses, stolen cars, human trafficking in full swing - but we are not aware of them enough in this house. the situation has been aggravated by the permeable turkish-greek border, which saw 300,000 illegal immigrants enter the european union in 2011 alone. in view of this, it is high time that the home ministers took action here, and i do not understand the hysterical outcry in this house. now to the commissioner: commissioner malmström, if you are saying that the influx of refugees into europe is not a threat to public security in the face of this situation of 300 000 illegal immigrants from south-eastern europe alone, then i do not know where you live and with which citizens you are in contact. but i invite you to come to the regions, to my home country, austria. there you will meet concerned citizens who are far from populist, but who have concerns, and legitimate concerns.
in writing. freedom of movement is one of europe's major achievements, as is the common currency, the euro. both are constantly sacrificed to short-term interests. such policies do not bring the success that populists want, nor do they eliminate the problems that need to be solved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for years, european interior ministers have been unable to agree on a fair distribution of refugees, europe has failed in its neighbourhood policy and is withdrawing from development cooperation. but these basic questions must be resolved as a matter of priority, otherwise schengen will not really work either. the suspension of the schengen mechanism cannot therefore solve the problems. if anything, it should be done only in extreme cases. this decision must not be influenced by populist tendencies. it must be carried out at european level, with the participation of the european parliament.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i would like to thank the rapporteur in advance for her constructive approach. the european court of justice is subject to a permanent additional burden. this is due, on the one hand, to the enlargement of the european union to include 12 new member states and, on the other hand, to the constant expansion of powers. in order to ensure that the law is applied effectively and permanently, the rules of procedure have been amended so that decisions in intellectual property cases can be taken without an oral procedure. our citizens have a right to a fair trial, and to a trial as soon as possible. the president of the court of justice may refer cases to chambers which have already dealt with similar questions of law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the new number of judges of the european court of justice shall be achieved by an amendment to the statute in accordance with the procedures laid down in the treaty of lisbon. the reasons for my preference are linked to the effectiveness of the proposed solution, the urgency of the situation, the flexibility of the measures envisaged and the coherence of union law. the european court of justice considers that an increase of 12 judges to a total of 39 judges is necessary. like the rapporteur, mrs thein, i lack empirical evidence to support the ecj's conclusion that this is the number. however, i agree with the ecj in principle. the appointment of judges is a matter for the member states. however, the question is of such importance that it is the task of the directly elected parliament, the european parliament, to ensure that the best possible solution is found in the minds of the citizens. the judicial committee should therefore be involved, to the extent necessary, in the appointment of judges. however, it seems inappropriate to require the court of justice to set up two specialised chambers. it is more appropriate to empower the court of justice to do so in its rules of procedure.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i think the debate we are having here shows exactly why we need one. we have had many visitors here in the last few days from various levels of georgian society – government, opposition, the new united opposition that is going to run – and we are hearing lots of different things. i think it is not for us to come down on one side. it is for us to define what we think is necessary for a democratic modern country to do. what we are really concerned about and what i am concerned about – and what our debate should be about – is to warn georgians, be it government, opposition or citizens, that a war of words and non-transparent conditions for elections is something that is harming, or could harm, the image of georgia, not just in this parliament but in europe and in georgia itself. a statement by the national democratic institute says that it is ‘concerned about growing political polarization in the country and a dearth of civil discourse among political leaders’. therefore, what i think we should do is make it very clear that a war of words is not helpful, that there is a need for transparency on campaign financing and on party financing for everyone, whether government or opposition. i personally do not like oligarchs in politics – how much money you have should not be the criterion for whether or not you should be elected. it is about visions as the previous speaker has said. it is about improving and having the political will to improve human rights, the economic situation and democracy in the country. there has been one positive development, and that was an amendment to media laws prescribing that every cable network has to transmit all tv stations in the pre-election period. i think that was a very positive thing. one thing i am really concerned about is the situation of the over-crowded prisons in the country. yes, the crime rate has been reduced. however, two political activists were recently sentenced to respectively 35 and 45 days imprisonment for petty hooliganism. this is something, especially in a pre-election period, that should not happen. i call again on the authorities to ask the government and the opposition, everybody who wants to run, to calm down and ensure transparency for the elections. hopefully we will have free and fair elections in a democratic country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. georgia is a strategically important partner for the union in the caucasus and is also very important for us in religious and cultural terms. however, president mikheil saakashvili is very controversial, and in may alone 80,000 people demonstrated against him. democracy is formally guaranteed by free and secret elections, but political and civil rights and the control of the forces are often restricted. and just as his second and final term as president is about to end, saakashvili is strengthening the post of prime minister, and political scientists see this as the preparation of a legal coup. the european union has been a great ally in this area. we must therefore ensure that these young democracies, which have already set their sights on the union's money - georgia is a member of the european neighbourhood policy - also respect the rules of democracy, because both the masked dictators and the oligarchs mentioned have lost nothing in our value system. we must make that clear to them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for months we have been hearing the horror of torture, murder and manslaughter, with the result that, unfortunately, there is no solution in sight. humanitarian aid is important and helpful, but unfortunately it does not solve the problem. but it's not just the regime that's the problem. radical islamic forces have taken control of the apparently divided opposition, and sponsored by ultraconservative forces from qatar and saudi arabia, it is clearly moving in that direction. it is no coincidence that the opposition met only yesterday at the muslim brotherhood in egypt. i understand the fear of the minorities, i also understand the fear of the 15% of the christian population in syria. the european union must therefore help the syrian people as quickly as possible, and i believe that an orderly transition is not possible without the intensive involvement of russia in particular. i warn you against trying to solve this problem with a policy of bombs and tanks. the chaos in iraq and libya is downright frightening.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. many egyptian christians fear that with the newly elected president, muslim brother mursi, the path will eventually lead to an islamic state that will actually make their daily lives hell. the copts make up about 10 to 20 percent of the population in egypt, about 10 million people. not everyone has the courage to confess. they are accustomed to economic oppression and to the disregard of their religious needs. in an islamic society, however, they would be de facto degraded to the status of outlaws. islamic supremacy in the region is not new, but while it was once fought by the state, it is now the state. the bloody attacks on christians speak volumes not a trace of the arab spring! lady ashton should immediately send a delegation to assess the situation of the christians. the eu should also link all payments to egypt to respect for human rights.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission's statement on the outcome of the rio+20 summit (20-22 june 2012).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think, commissioner, that europe has done a good job here, and i also think that your assessment of the situation was correct. the evaluation that has been done by some ngos and also by some speakers here, sometimes seems to me like the evaluation of new year's wishes: the more you wish for, the more you have achieved. i think it is about what you actually achieve at the end of the year, not what you wish for and what you do. if we look at the long-term trends of the last 20 years, we can see that we have achieved a lot. you have to say that once. if we think about access to drinking water, we are almost there, and the waste water treatment is not so bad. but the problem of how to help the developing world, of course, remains. but i think it's also necessary that we face up to the realities. the world has changed a lot in the last 20 years. and the countries that were more or less on the verge of developing, like china and many of the g-77 countries, have now become very, very powerful. so the approach that we have to do something in the un system is certainly justified. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would remind you that we are blind in one eye to the green economy. it's also about us bringing in the private sector massively, and not just hoping to do what we've done through the old top-down systems of development aid. so it's very important that we approach things realistically here. europe has done a lot in this area, it is an engine, it should continue to be an engine. i don't think it's right to say bad things about me.
in writing. - the court of justice proposes to establish the office of vice-president of the court of justice and to amend the rules governing the composition of the grand chamber. the present structure and the rules governing the functioning of this panel - the participation of the president of the court of justice and the presidents of the chambers of five judges in all cases referred to the grand chamber and the power to take decisions in the presence of nine judges - date from the amendments made by the treaty of nice. the court of justice has also been asked to examine the question of the interpretation of the treaty on european union, which is a matter of principle for the court of justice. however, the same procedures as for amending the treaty must apply to the amendment of a protocol. for formal reasons, the procedure is therefore to be rejected.
in writing. − the courts’ problems in handling and solving the continuously increasing number of legal matters require adaptations in the courts’ structure. to raise the number of judges in court as well as to establish a new function for a vice-president seem to be adequate solutions to guarantee the coherence of jurisdiction and improve the division of labour.
in writing. − the proposal submitted by the court of justice is intended to make it possible to appoint ad interim judges to the european union civil service tribunal. in principle, it makes sense to ensure that work can be done even in the event of illness. however, the same procedures as for amending the treaty must apply to the amendment of a protocol. for formal reasons, the procedure is therefore to be rejected.
in writing. − the court for government service should be able to work continuous especially in case of outage of one or more of the current judges. therefore an appointment of judges ad interim seems to be an expedient and useful solution. the arrangements for the nomination and their duration as well as the judges’ authorizations and duties are acceptable.
in writing. - an amending budget makes it possible to amend subsequently parts of the existing budget. the adjustment of the applicable rules, the distribution of payment appropriations led to a non-exhaustion of payment appropriations in 2012 and thus also increased the surplus for 2012. it is estimated that there will be a shortage of payment appropriations this year in the research sector and other areas. in principle, it may be useful to deal with a shortfall in expenditure on the basis of the approach set out in the report. i do not think it is in principle useful to apply exceptions and thus create precedents. i have not voted for the report because of these formal considerations.
in writing. − according to article 15(1) of the financial regulation nothing is said against the draft amending budget. therefore it is advisable to follow the principle of sound financial management. the substitution of the under-implementation by eur 0.73 billion for the eu budget is adequate.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. mrs bauer, i listened to your speech with great interest and i am very surprised and saddened that your group, although you said yesterday in our joint shadow reporting meeting that your group would join us in fighting crimes against lesbians in africa and in supporting equal rights for lesbians and gays, is now withdrawing its support for this report despite these massive violations of the human rights of lesbians and also of lgbt people. i consider the resolution to be extremely important for the european parliament because it is about defending human rights in all parts of the world and because in this resolution we also call on the european external action service and all the representatives of the european union to enforce these same rights and to support the fight against violence against lesbian women - this massive violence in the so-called corrective rapes, that is, rapes which are intended to make women stop being lesbians. we can't withdraw. it's not clear yet. we should really be working together here, all six groups. just last weekend, the lgbt community in south africa had to bury three lesbians, a trans woman and a gay man in a violent death. this is happening in a country which in 1995 was the first in the world to introduce non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation in its new constitution. this is the path that not only south africa but all of africa should follow.
author. − mr president, we were also positively surprised by the fact that mr andrzej poczobut was released last saturday but, as the previous speaker has said, there is no way that we can be satisfied with the situation of human rights and of freedom of expression in belarus, especially for journalists but also for opposition figures, lawyers and other activists. there have been several criticisms about how mr lukashenko is handling his country, which is very close to a dictatorship. i think it is the last dictatorship we have in europe. i am happy that this parliament stands united against any violation of freedom of expression in a european country. so in our resolution we demand from the belarusian authorities an immediate end to all forms of pressure and oppression, whether against journalists, media workers or other activists, and the release of all political prisoners. this is europe and belarus is a part of europe. repression as we see it in belarus has no place in europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the question of press freedom is of course raised in connection with the journalist andrzej poczobut. freedom of the press, which we in europe so nicely call the fourth force, is a very important building block of any democracy. how far one can go and whether media abuse is sustainable is another question. i believe that the transition to democracy after half a century of communist dictatorship is certainly a very difficult process, which underlines the severity of the punishment which can only be described as excessive. i can only partially understand the reactions of some european politicians, because poczobut is a belarusian citizen who lives and works there. and in europe in particular we should be very sensitive to interference in the politics of another neighbouring country, and to exclude a country from european or cooperation bodies, as has been recommended today, is the wrong way to go in my view. when we talk about freedom of the press, we should not measure it in different ways, because when it comes to important economic partners from the far east to the arabian peninsula, we sometimes turn a blind eye to the issue of freedom of expression. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. thank you, mr migalski, for the question. this gives me the opportunity to clarify my point of view, which would have been rather difficult in a minute. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am concerned about finding a balance in the assessment of violations of human rights, of freedom of the press, where we are - as i have already said - a little more tolerant of some other countries, which are a little bigger and more important than belarus. that's the one. i also believe that we must, of course, support belarus in this difficult path towards democracy, but we must also be very sensitive. we must not forget that we have to take care of the people who are threatened here, but very sensitive!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the shocking photo of the chinese woman in the hospital with her aborted fetus has gone around the world. i don't think anyone is untouched by this story. the woman was seven months pregnant with her second baby, yet she was arrested by the local authorities and forced to have an abortion. after failing to pay the fine of 40,000 yuan or 5,021 euros for violating the one-child policy, she was held captive, and after three days, five men injected the poison syringe into the fetus. i am at a loss for words to describe this incredibly repulsive inhumanity. this is not an isolated case. since the one-child policy was introduced in 1979, 400 million births have been prevented, according to the national planning commission. in rural areas in particular, local authorities try to enforce their policies by illegal forced abortions and fines. i do not believe - contrary to some of the opinions here today - that it is enough to simply resume the human rights dialogue with china. the eu should, if it is serious about human rights, boycott all chinese imports until beijing gets its act together and changes its one-child policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you said at first you'd only take on those who haven't spoken yet. my colleague kiil-nielsen also wanted to speak at catch the eye. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. it was a question of the blue card procedure, but still. i would ask you to include my colleague, mrs kiil-nielsen, in that.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the common agricultural policy. it is well known that in recent years the cost of farm equipment has increased disproportionately in relation to agricultural income. in an environment of rising leases of forage land, higher feed prices, rising diesel prices and similar developments, government regulations, even if they are in principle welcome - for example, for environmental protection or for consumer confidence and food safety - can give small farmers across europe the rest. in this sense, i think the european union drew the right conclusions from the consultation, namely that mandatory electronic labelling would have caused economic disadvantages for some operators. and we don't want that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. respect for human rights is something that the european union regularly demands in distant countries all over the world under the threat of sanctions. as we know, human rights are those rights which all potential candidates for accession to the eu must commit themselves to respecting, for example through the european convention on human rights, as we know. in view of these facts, it is scandalous that the necessary consequences have still not been drawn from the illegal prisoner transfers and from the secret prisons of the cia, which in some cases were carried out on european territory not only with the knowledge but even with the assistance of national governments. as if this breach of the european convention on human rights were not shameful enough, the investigations are dragging on forever. it is high time that we finally draw the consequences and put an end to these unfortunate events. but speaking of human rights, it must also be clear that, particularly with regard to the ongoing accession negotiations with turkey, the eu can no longer turn a blind eye to the fact that human rights there are mostly only on paper. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if the european union is serious about human rights, it should finally repeal historically unjust laws such as the slovenian avnoj regulations or the czech beneš decrees.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unfortunately, the rules on the remuneration of donors of tissues and cells vary from one member state to another. one view is that the altruism of tissue and cell donation is fundamental, another view is that financial compensation is needed to increase motivation. i think the latter view is more than ethically questionable. in this context, i believe it is important that member states work together more closely to raise awareness of donations. some countries have problems with this. it is also important that, while the eu can only act as a complement in this case, it is called upon to do more in this highly sensitive area to raise and promote awareness among citizens of the importance of donations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is still a sad fact, but it is very true: women in the eu still earn 16.4% less than men and make up 80% of the low-income earners. in my home country, women earned on average about 60% of men's average income in 2010. there is still a difference in the classification of equal work, and in 2010 only one in seven board members of the largest european companies was a woman. women must finally be seen as equally capable as men. i believe that working hours that allow for a balance between work and family, the chance of appropriate childcare and access to continuing training opportunities are an adequate start to move in the right direction.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. 83.1% of women in employment are employed in the service sector. the report also highlights the need to develop a more integrated approach to the problem of the unemployed, which is based on the principle of equal opportunities. women also bring very special skills for specific fields. marketing and mediation are therefore classically female professions, because women are usually better at empathising with other people than their male counterparts. it's absurd to think that all of a sudden you need more male kindergarteners, more female plumbers. it is not doing women or society as a whole any good. it is important to reward and promote human professions accordingly, both financially and in terms of reputation. in addition, parttime work must not become a precarious situation. (the speaker agrees to answer the question of another member in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. thank you for asking. i have already said at the beginning that i consider women to be more empathetic than their male colleagues, and this is also a very important point for politics. so i think that both in politics and, of course, at the executive level - as a colleague has already said - it is important that we should have many more women here without a quota system. i think that a quota system would be the wrong approach, and i agree with my colleague that equal pay would be an important step forward. (the speaker agrees to answer the question of another member in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure. )
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. thank you for asking. i told you very clearly that you shouldn't be forced to be happy. it is natural that more men should be able to take up this activity, and it is quite legitimate and pleasing that women should also take up technical occupations. but i don't think that forced happiness is the right thing to do. i would like to stress once again that it is important that the professions in the human world - whether it is teaching or nursing - should be fundamentally upgraded. if these jobs have a better image, if they are better and everyone is paid the same - whether male or female - then access is equally attractive for both men and women. then the problem will solve itself.
one of the essential elements of the european integration process is a fair, supportive and effective asylum policy. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the current system is a product of history, dating back to a time when the union was smaller. reform has proved extremely difficult so far, as asylum has become a priority domestic policy issue in most member states. the populist instrumentalisation which is almost everywhere to be observed makes it increasingly difficult to find solutions which are reasonable and which are in accordance with the principle of intra-european solidarity. the report on enhanced intra-eu solidarity in the field of asylum is an important attempt to unravel this difficult situation. the need for a greater sense of responsibility within the eu is rightly pointed out. this is the criterion for establishing the common european asylum system, which is still planned for 2012.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would also like to thank linda mcavan and the shadow reporters. i think the european union has acted very quickly in this respect. what was considered modern and effective in 2010 but proved to be insufficient in a very short time must now be put right together as quickly as possible. these loopholes must be closed. this paper shows exactly where we need to start. we need the transparency, we need the speed, because we need the trust of patients and consumers in medicine. and above all, we need to have faith in the system. we need close cooperation to monitor medicines that have been authorised in europe, to ensure that undesirable and, above all, harmful side effects are detected as quickly as possible and that the entire european market is informed as soon as possible. this means that a drug does not just quietly and secretly disappear from the market when the manufacturers have realized that it may have harmful side effects, but that it needs to be clarified. we need that transparency, we need the urgency and we also need the longer monitoring periods. what we need, specifically, is to work closely with the patient, but also with the healthcare professionals, because i think the pharmacovigilance package can only work if everyone knows about it, and that means that information is also coming together. such a law will only really work if patients can do something with the accompanying text and if, on the other hand, as linda mcavan has said, the ema also has the financial means to carry out all the tasks entrusted to it in the future.
i have to say, madam president, monitoring of medicinal products from the time of marketing authorisation is essential, especially since medicinal products have been tested on a comparatively small number of patients. often, new knowledge is not available until the drug is on the market. medicinal products requiring additional monitoring or safety studies after marketing authorisation should be marked with a black symbol. in addition, doctors, patients and authorities need to know in good time - that is, as soon as possible - when and why a medicine that has been considered safe until then is being withdrawn from the market. it is not possible that investors in pharmaceutical companies receive information earlier than doctors and pharmacists. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the way she has brought the report through parliament. it is undeniable that we needed to act in the shipping sector. but at the same time we must bear in mind that shipping is characterized by its internationality and by its very long investment cycles. but it's a good compromise. the fact that many colleagues have already complained about this is also a sign of this. i think he's well-balanced. the northern member states in particular must be reminded that they have already agreed to the whole package in the imo and in the council. it is their area that is particularly affected by these ship emissions and where the greatest health problems have occurred. that is why there is the greatest need for action. the division of europe is therefore justified in this case. it is also clear that we saw a need for action here, because otherwise by 2020 all the successes we would have achieved in air pollution on the mainland would have been lost to the sharp increase in maritime traffic. at the same time, we must ensure that we respect the transitional periods. that is why we have chosen 2020 to give the shipping industry time to change here and to be able to provide it with the fuels. that's the biggest problem right now. but let's remember: every euro invested here is well invested and brings a multiple of value, in health care costs saved and in quality of life. and that's the way it should be.
the commission has already done so. it is necessary that we take swift action here. let us look at the figures: 50,000 deaths from the pollutants contained in marine fuels alone. the number of lung diseases, respiratory diseases, is increasing dramatically in europe. we should also allow ourselves to focus on this, and we should keep an eye on the children. patients are getting younger. i must ask you to set strict standards here in future. of course, we want to shift transport as far as possible from the road to the waterways. but this must not mean that this will lead to additional air pollution and therefore to additional deaths in europe. we want the opposite. we want clean air. we want healthy children. we want a clean environment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank commissioner oettinger and his team in advance for tackling this issue. energy efficiency is really something for sunday talks. we are all in favour of this, but when it becomes a reality, we all have the biggest problems. it is clear that if we are to achieve the energy transition to which we have all committed ourselves, we must not only do something on the supply side, that is to say, invest in renewable energy, but also on the demand side. here, energy efficiency is certainly the most cost-effective way we can do this. i am frankly a little disappointed that the member states are so reluctant to accept a fixed target, as we agreed in 2008, also in energy efficiency. it would have been the easiest thing to do. each member state sets the amount it wants to save and then chooses the measures. we would be spared the energy bureaucracy we have created with this proposal and this report. that's actually my big criticism. claude turmes has negotiated very hard. we have decided to support this compromise. but the problem will be that we now have a set of rules that are extremely complicated and expensive to enforce. the simple variant "goals and everyone does what he wants", as some colleagues have done, would have been the most elegant. the member states must be openly criticised for not being prepared to do so. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. it always costs something to buy these new products. we have to be careful not to overdo it here. i would like to say yes to that. but let's see how the implementation goes.
in writing. − denmark submitted an application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund on 28 october 2011. it concerns 981 redundancies (of which 550 are for support measures) in the main company odense steel shipyard and four subsidiaries and downstream producers in denmark during the four-month reference period from 1 may to 31 august 2011. the application complies with the conditions for determining the financial contribution as laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the commission therefore proposes to provide the sum of eur 6 455 104. in the spirit of european solidarity, the egf should, therefore, be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution for the application submitted by denmark. i therefore voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. − the egf is designed to provide additional support to workers who suffer from the effects of globalisation and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the application from denmark has been examined and concerns 981 redundancies - the general employment situation in denmark has deteriorated significantly in 2009 and 2010. it meets all the requirements and so the report was approved.
in writing. − spain submitted an application on 28 december 2011 for a financial contribution from the egf in respect of redundancies in 377 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 41 (building) in a nuts ii region, namely the region of aragón (es24), and supplemented it by additional information up to 23 march 2012. the application complies with the conditions for determining the financial contribution as laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the commission therefore proposes to provide the sum of eur 1 300 000. in the spirit of european solidarity, the egf should, therefore, be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution for the application submitted by spain. i therefore voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. − energy efficiency is one of the core elements of the flagship initiative 'a resource-efficient europe' announced under the europe 2020 strategy. as set out in the commission communication 'roadmap to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050', energy efficiency is one of the aspects of the low-carbon economy that can contribute to job creation in the short and medium term through more intensive training, further training, programmes to increase the uptake of new technologies, and r&d and entrepreneurship. this proposal for a directive emphasises that the transition to a more energy-efficient economy will also improve the competitiveness of industry in the union, thereby promoting economic growth and creating quality jobs in a number of sectors related to energy efficiency. this is of course to be welcomed. the fundamental question is whether the measures planned will actually be able to reduce or limit global warming. given that this is primarily a natural phenomenon, the proposed measures are likely to involve significant additional costs for public budgets and for undertakings, which in the end do not bring any benefits. and in times of crisis! i therefore voted against the proposal for a directive.
in writing. − energy efficiency also affects the main areas of climate change, energy supply, green growth and social protection. to limit global warming, ambitious action is needed - and energy efficiency can make a cheap and rapid contribution. energy efficiency can also have a positive impact on the economy.
in writing. − it is a scandal that the involvement of some eu countries in the illegal prisoner transfers and the operation of secret prisons by the us foreign intelligence service cia has still not been fully investigated. the eu is the world's leading human rights teacher, but it sets extremely low standards for itself. in any case, the participation of eu states such as poland or romania in the cia's human rights abuses casts a dark light on the self-styled community of values. the scandal surrounding cia flights and secret prisons shows that in the face of doubt, proxy services seem to matter more to the united states than respect for basic human rights. the european union is complicit in the human rights violations of the united states, which are allegedly committed in the name of combating terrorism. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − respect for fundamental human rights is my top priority and the fight against terrorism can only be effective if it is conducted in strict compliance with human rights obligations and in particular the principle of due process. the 'extraordinary renditions' mentioned in the report, which may include abduction, transportation, detention without trial, enforced disappearance or even secret detention and torture, should be condemned accordingly. it is imperative that a full investigation be made into the precise extent of the involvement of some eu states in dealing with us authorities, in particular the cia, on eu territory. it is a scandal that the involvement of some eu countries in the illegal prisoner transfers and the operation of secret cia prisons has still not been fully investigated. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has called on the governments of the eu member states to carry out investigations and i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the common european asylum system in its present form is developing in a worrying direction. until the union finally admits that it cannot take in all economic migrants from all the countries, hundreds of thousands will continue to set off. if measures are taken, such as mass amnesties of illegal immigrants or the breach of the schengen treaty, as has recently been the case with tourist visas, this will inevitably lead to tens of thousands more refugees. this also threatens the failure of the schengen system as a whole. greece, italy and malta are clearly not in a position to secure the eu's external borders, and schengen newcomers often falter in their efforts after being admitted. and the other countries will then - in the name of eu-internal solidarity - pay the price. the eu must indeed develop frontex into an effective border protection agency. i can only reject the present report as a passing reference to reality.
in writing. − the development of a common european asylum system presents the european union with major challenges. europe is not able to take in all economic refugees, and the mediterranean countries such as italy, greece and malta cannot effectively secure their external borders. that is why frontex must finally become a well-functioning border guard agency. the asylum system must not become a vehicle for mass immigration in europe and it is clear that there must be strict principles in eu asylum laws that should above all protect the legitimate interests of eu citizens. it also needs to analyse the causes of migration in a global context. most migrants flee mainly because of the lack of prospects in their home countries and the eu would be well advised to analyse these links and to provide new impetus for a fairer economic system with the refugee countries of origin. until this is recognised in europe, thousands of refugees will continue to pour into europe who have no right to asylum under existing law. i did not vote for the report because it does not contain all these considerations.
in writing. − standards in the service sector or ict support the dissemination of processes and innovations. the whole system of administration and financing is now simplified - and thus a high degree of transparency is ensured. this has increased the competitiveness of european companies on the world market. this is the first legislative proposal adopted by parliament under the single market acts and its rules will enter into force on 1 january 2013.
in writing. − from july 2012, the new pharmacovigilance legislation agreed in december 2012 will apply at eu level. the legislation was evaluated in relation to the safety of medicinal products (mediator case) and amendments were drawn up to draw lessons and improve the system and close existing safety gaps. it is essential to be able to act quickly in the event of safety concerns. i am in favour of the proposals for improvement.
in writing. − i welcome any action that can further strengthen the pharmacovigilance system at eu level and thereby minimise the risk to patients. because patient safety has to be paramount. monitoring of a medicinal product from the time of its marketing authorisation is essential, since the medicinal product has only been tested on a comparatively small number of patients. new safety findings are often not available until after a longer period of use. in view of the proposed amendment to the pharmacovigilance directive 2001/83/ec, i welcome the report and voted in favour of it.
in writing. − the sulphur content of marine fuels in eu waters is to be set at a maximum of 0.5% from 2015 onwards, and in sox emission monitoring areas (seca) the value is to be reduced to 0.1%. these measures, according to experts, are intended to significantly improve air quality, especially in coastal areas. however, the changeover would impose high costs on shipping companies and risk shifting some of the shipping traffic to inland waterways. this is in contrast to another eu measure, namely to handle more transport by water or rail than by road. coastal and inland waterway vessels consume much less fuel per transport unit and emit correspondingly less carbon dioxide than lorries. the eu therefore wants to put a third of what is transported by truck over 300 kilometres by rail or ship by 2030. similar measures to those for onshore factories are being considered for ships to clean up the exhaust gases. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the gas treatment system. i voted in favour of the report because the rapporteur has clearly mentioned the possibilities of financing and financial support for shipping companies. the proposed granting of state aid for investment seems to me to be an appropriate means of doing so.
in writing. − the proposed changes are intended to achieve significant benefits for health and the environment, while at the same time levelling costs. the air quality in coastal areas in particular will therefore improve considerably. as the commission estimates that the monetary health benefits will outweigh the cost of reducing emissions from ships by a factor of 225 and the health benefits will amount to eur 816 billion, while the costs are estimated by the commission to be only eur 0.63.7 billion, i welcome the proposed amendments and vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - the report shows that it is essential to put into practice the maximum sulphur limits for fuel. this decision is important for the environment and may be the most important health-related innovation in the current election period. the use of exhaust gas cleaning equipment should be encouraged and supported. emissions should also be reduced by alternative methods (see also liquefied natural gas, liquefied natural gas (lng)).
in writing. − the report addresses the problem of coordination between the new regulation for member states, which states that they must decide once and for all to transfer funds from the national wine sector to the single payment scheme by the end of 2012 (instead of a decision to transfer funds annually until now) and the new system of direct payments to wine growers from the new cap. the impact of the cap reform on the wine sector is rather difficult to assess. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the community system of preferences for certain agricultural products.
in writing. - the crisis is worsening almost daily and is being continued as before. cyprus has also applied for rescue funds after spain. it is time for the eu to openly admit that financial aid is pointless because monetary union is a misconception. there are more and more voices that say that greece has no future in the eurozone. but if athens had left the euro two years ago, it would have saved 250 billion euros. brussels is only interested in seizing more and more power. whether it is the mountains of milk and butter, the billions of dollars of subsidies that are poured into the black channels every year, the ever-new waves of illegal migration or the euro crisis, the path of unification and levelling down that has been taken so far has proved to be highly problematic. it is time to put an end to this eu-wide misguidedness. the resolution is a continuation of the previous paths of error, and i therefore rejected it.
in writing. - following the recent bailout requests from spain and now also from cyprus, the primary approach in my view would still be that those countries which are simply too weak macroeconomically and cannot keep up with the demands of a hard currency union should immediately exit. a residual monetary union would certainly be preferable to the present situation. this is not least because in this constellation the traditional hard currency countries of the former dm bloc would have a corresponding majority and could therefore also make a corresponding monetary policy. but this long-needed reduction continues to fail under international pressure on germany. it is clear that germany is either too weak, too timid or for other reasons unwilling to take the steps which would not only be reasonable but also desired by a large majority of its own population. now is the time to stop further financial injections into the sick eu countries. considering that the european union is facing a profound competition crisis and that most other regions of the world are already growing much faster and producing more and are also innovating more and will leave the european union behind if decisive countermeasures are not taken, i rejected this resolution because it does not revise the wrong path taken so far.
in writing. − this report shows the current trend in tissue and cell donation in the european union. secondly, the quality and safety of tissues and cells must be guaranteed and donors must be adequately compensated.
in writing. − this report places particular emphasis on sustainability in many aspects (consumption, transport, politics in international relations) and social justice (adequate representation of women, working conditions, benefits, education and childcare). if we want a green economy, we need a common definition, the inclusion of the issue of equality and also the creation of a sustainable energy-efficient and healthy society. i have agreed to this report.
in writing. − given that the gender pay gap in the eu is still 17.1%, that only one in seven board members of europe's largest companies is a woman, and that more women are working in precarious jobs and in the informal economy, it is high time to create the right conditions such as work-life balance and childcare to ensure equal treatment. i have agreed to this report.
in writing. − education is a high good in a free world and should be promoted. the number of school drop-outs is certainly far too high throughout the eu and measures must be taken to reduce it. the report discusses the need for multilingualism, which makes it much easier for eu citizens to cross the borders of individual member states to pursue their professional activities there. i have abstained from voting because it does not show how the educational problem can be solved from a financial point of view. the rapporteur does identify problems here, but there is no discourse on their solvability. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one.
in writing. − although the report makes good recommendations, some key areas are not directly addressed, such as the problem of the increasing number of school drop-outs. we are particularly concerned about the financial and economic situation in difficult economic times. but we must not lose sight of the young. the report stresses that the perspectives and interests of the pupil or student should be the first priority in the field of education, but i do not have concrete solutions to the problem of early school leaving, and that is why i abstained.
in writing. − this report shows very clearly the necessity of education: the basis for every citizen’s career. it becomes very clear that there is still a lot to be done for young people – dropouts – as well as for older people, if one just thinks of ‘life-long learning’. education is a bare necessity and has to be available for everyone, regardless of their income.
in writing. the european cinema is an economic factor which should not be underestimated. european productions bring money to the member states during the shooting and also make the most diverse regions known. in 2010, 1203 films were produced in europe, compared with 754 in the us. many smes benefit from film productions in the european single market. in the age of the internet, however, it is becoming increasingly difficult to control the legal distribution of audiovisual content. this leads to a disparity in the treatment of online and offline services. many audiovisual services use the internet to distribute and market their content and services. i abstained because i believe that there are several approaches to regulating the audiovisual market on the internet. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting.
in writing. − i believe that more attention should be paid to the protection of personal data, the right to privacy, and the improvement of the security of online distribution platforms, including the processing of online payments, especially in the distribution of audiovisual content. the legal distribution of audiovisual content is becoming increasingly problematic to control. in the current internet glut, it is to be feared that adwords referral services, operated for example by large american providers, will also mainly refer to links which redirect consumers to non-national and non-european sites or services. i abstained because there are still many steps to be taken to regulate the controlled and legal distribution of content and services on the internet.
in writing. - the report itself is now somewhat outdated, but it does show the need for revision and the weaknesses of the system. a framework should be created which allows both the market and consumers to benefit equally from the market.
in writing. a few basic remarks on the budgetary debate: 1) the top-down approach must be maintained. this means that the available financial volume is first determined. it is only after that that it is decided which expenditure is to be made and where. and not the other way around! the bottom-up approach advocated by the net beneficiaries is a false signal, especially in times of debt crisis! the eu must not spend more than the net contributors can and will afford! 2) a central eu tax is not the solution, tax sovereignty must remain with the member states. 3) i see enough potential for savings: .) the commission's proposal is to be implemented by the end of the year. nor can the ead (external service) equip itself with a multitude of highly endowed managerial positions without justifying this insane human resources expenditure. and now there is also a 9.2% increase in these posts! and the budget for the decentralized agencies is to be increased by 3.2%. 4) on the expenditure side, the appropriations for useful institutions such as frontex must be increased.
madam president, dear mrs ashton, i have to tell you that i am very sorry. we know that the security challenges of our time are very different from those of the past: cybercrime, uncontrolled migration and refugee flows, international terrorism and the threat of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are among them. if we look at the middle east, for example, we know that the dispute over iran's nuclear programme is certainly not going to be resolved by force. if israel attacks the nuclear facilities, the entire middle east threatens to plunge into chaos and war. if the eu really wants to preserve peace, it must, without a doubt, mediate between the parties to the conflict. the consequences of a war in the region, for example in terms of the expected flows of refugees or the security of oil supplies, would certainly be enormous for europe. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on arms control. the right of the state of israel to exist must be beyond doubt, and tehran must lay all its cards on the table with regard to its controversial nuclear programme.
i have to say, madam president, many things were duly praised, some were delicately criticized. i feel that our foreign policy is mainly concerned with complaining about problems and with imposing sanctions where they are easy to impose. i am missing an overall robust economic and social geostrategic orientation. i would like to make this clear by taking the example of mogadishu. with our warships in mogadishu, we'll certainly have a symptomatic response in the short term. however, the roots of piracy - the destruction of people's livelihoods in agriculture and fishing - will not be addressed. competitor china is happy about this. it secures whole tracts of land for its products and accordingly secures fishing rights and protects them also off the coast of somalia. but europe can deal with the negative consequences of this, with migration, piracy, humanitarian disasters and the spread of fundamentalist islam. that is not the way i envisage a uniform security policy. something has to change in their minds. i don't need a real ead for that either.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the video that surfaced in russia earlier this week, in which the syrian president declares his willingness to resign, is probably just meant to keep moscow on assad's side. we know that the russian veto prevents a un resolution with tangible consequences. that's probably not going to change anytime soon. the general underestimation is that the assad regime is prepared to maintain its power by any means necessary. this brutality may be linked to the long-simmering multireligious tensions in the region, which are known to be exacerbated by ethnic conflicts. the only way to do that is to increase the pressure on the regime by means of sanctions. however, direct military intervention is likely to be ruled out. the very fact that the opposition is divided and that the rebels are not deterred by human rights violations, arbitrary executions and torture is enough to show that this is not the case. and as we know, there is a risk that militant islamists will use the chaos to consolidate their influence. we can't let that happen!
the next item is the debate on the report by ms antonyia parvanova and mrs teresa jiménez-becerril barrio, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on minimum standards on the rights and protection of victims of crime and on victim support (com (2011) 0275 c7-0127/2011 2011/0129 (cod)) (a7-0244/2012).
thank you very much, commissioner. the debate has made it very clear - every word - that we are aware of the importance of the outcome of the discussions. the two reporters embody this awareness in their work.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 september 2012 at 12.30. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the following: - the request for an oral answer to the commission on the current management of the sugar sector by mr james nicholson and mrs marina yannakoudakis, on behalf of the group of the european conservatives and reformists (o-000114/2012 - b7-0353/2012), - the request for an oral answer to the commission on the current management of the sugar sector by mr george lyon, mrs britta reimers, mrs sarah ludford, mr ramon tremosa i balcells and mrs marielle de sarnez, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o-000116/2012 - b7-0354/2012), - the request for an oral answer to the commission on the current management of the sugar sector by mr manuel luis capoulas, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats (o-000143/2012 - b7-0353/2012), - the request for an oral answer to the commission on the current management of the sugar sector by mr george lyon, mrs britta reimers, mr sarah ludford, mr ramon tremosa i balcells and mrs marielle de sarnez, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o-000116116/2012 - b7-0354/2012), - the request for an oral answer to the commission on the current management of the sugar sector by mr manuel luis capoulas, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and allian democrats (o-000314143 o-000) - b7-031414314/2012 - b7-0353 - b7-0353 - b7-0315/2012 - b7-0353 - b7-0353 - b7-03 - mr patrick rub
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not president barroso, you made a good speech, in some respects a very good speech. i would go further on some points, however, and i will also say where we social democrats would go further. they have made themselves known to the european social model. that's good! i would have liked to see more support for this social model in europe on the right, because it is extremely endangered. they have made a commitment to europe's role in the world, to a strong role. that's right, too! yesterday, our colleague robert goebbels told us about a meeting in asia. the asian representative began his speech with 'we from the emerging countries and you europeans from the submerging countries'. this is the picture that europe is painting today in part. we share the common desire to keep europe as one of the 'emerging countries and regions'. but if we do not change our economic policy, it will not happen. if we see the economic crisis as just a government spending crisis -- you've made that more nuanced, but many others on the right see it that way -- and therefore it's just about cuts in benefits, then we're not going to get out of the crisis. we're actually going to get into a deeper recession. the portuguese prime minister has already said and made it clear that if you start with an extreme austerity policy, you have to go deeper and deeper into the pockets of the people. we don't want that! we do not want the poorest in europe to become poorer. that is not a policy that we social democrats can support. (applause from the centre) mr president, i have said it many times: the troika is unfortunately a party to this recession policy. the troika should instead seek to bring about fundamental reforms of the encrusted structures that are necessary. but if the troika thinks that the only way out of this mess is through cuts, then i ask myself: where are the successes? any forecast made following a recommendation for action by the troika had to be corrected. (applause from the centre) in spain - the foreign minister and the minister for europe are sitting here, our former colleagues, even if they are chatting with each other now - unemployment has risen from 11 to 24%, a world record for comparable countries, and public debt has risen from 40% to 81%. and that's a success? the troika is not succeeding because it has the wrong recipes, because it does not rely on growth, because the concept of 'demand' as a means of supporting growth is unknown to it. mr daul, you mentioned the dombrovskis. has mr dombrovskis told you how many highly educated people from latvia and the other baltic states and the southern states have had to emigrate because they cannot find a job? the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unemployment. where are our people going to emigrate to when we all go into a recession? mozambique, angola, brazil and other countries will not be big enough. (applause from the centre) let 's face it . the policy has failed! the only institution that has broken through at the moment is the ecb. not that i'm happy with all the measures. but if we didn't have an ecb, we would be in a much deeper mess, and if we didn't have a man like draghi, but a man like weidmann at the top, the disaster in europe would be much bigger. (applause from the centre) the policy is demanded. there is an alternative which must lead above all to investment. president barroso, public investment is increasing in the united states. in china, public investment is increasing. in japan, public investment is increasing. what about europe? what are we to talk about competitiveness if we do not invest more? you are on our side on the question of tax increases and tax evasion. if we could get just a quarter of what we lose in tax benefits every year through tax evasion in europe through transfer to switzerland and other tax havens , we could increase public investment in europe by 40%. that's the problem we have. (applause from the centre) so we agree with you: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial markets do not react so drastically. we need to take action against tax evasion and tax evasion. i would like to ask austria and luxembourg once again to give the commission a negotiating mandate for negotiations with switzerland. we also need the financial transaction tax. the commission has not yet received any application. i agree with you on the banking union and the supervision of banks so that taxpayers' money does not have to flow into this area again. and we need a budget that also drives growth. we're on your side. i can tell you one thing for sure: the socialist group will not support a european budget which does not contribute to growth. we are absolutely opposed to attempts to cut this budget even further for populist reasons. it is small enough, but many regions need this budget. (applause from the centre) but what is particularly troubling is the disregard for the social question. it is not just a question of poor countries. because when you look at youth unemployment, when you look at how fast it is rising, it is not just the peripheral countries that are affected. do the ladies and gentlemen here know that one in five workers in germany, in the good, rich germany, is a low-wage worker? does the right-wing colleague who is not a member of the cdu know that mrs von der leyen, your minister, wants to fight the problem of poverty among the elderly in a massive way, but is prevented from doing so by her own party, so that she now has to go to the spd and ask for support? this is the reality: poverty, old age poverty, youth unemployment is something which is extremely pronounced in the peripheral countries of the south, but it is also slowly coming to the rich countries like germany! and germany is sliding into recession. a third of germans fear a social decline. this is the europe of today! if we are defending europe, it cannot be this europe! it is not a scandal - and you will probably agree, mr president - but i am calling on you to take action - that the van rompuy paper does not actually say anything about social issues. the things that affect most people in europe today, namely unemployment, poverty, social degradation, are not even mentioned in the van rompuy paper. i therefore call for a chapter on social issues in the van rompuy report, and i also call for a social pact on behalf of my group, because the ladies and gentlemen on the right of this house are very keen to have a fiscal pact. i agree! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but a social compact doesn't seem to matter to you at all. we need a social pact to combat the lack of solidarity in europe, youth unemployment, poverty among the elderly and the integration of our fellow citizens who are foreigners or immigrants. there are many social issues in europe, and that is why my group would like to see a social pact at last, and not just a weak growth pact, and not just a strict fiscal pact. (applause from the centre) mr president, the president of parliament has also raised the question of democracy. democracy is threatened by the malaise of many financial markets. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not undermined by the council of ministers. but democracy is also at risk because we are seeing anti-democratic tendencies. the european council is increasingly involved - now also in budgetary matters - and i wonder: to whom is the european council responsible for its actions? at the national level, it is the individual prime ministers. and mr van rompuy is the great absentee in this house, we see him rarely and usually only afterwards when he explains what has happened or what has not happened. that is not a trend we can accept. we want the european council to be fully accountable, also to this house. parliamentary democracy at european level is part of democracy, it is an essential part of it. and the european council should not assume things and power that are not its right. this is a violation of democracy! (applause from the centre) there are writers who, not without reason, see the council as a bastion of nationalism in the german and austrian media today. i understand your notion of a federation of nation states. but, mr president of the commission, it must be clear that we are fighting together to ensure that the nation states give europe the powers it needs to defend our sovereignty in the world of today and tomorrow. lastly, we also need a new contract. but if we tell the unemployed of today that we have no jobs for you and at the same time we are discussing a new eu treaty, they will at best look at us with disdain, if not with a sense of hostility. so we have to be careful. we need a european debate first. we discussed this yesterday with some of the foreign ministers who are working on a paper. we need a european debate on the objectives of this future europe. we have a lot in common. after the next election, we can call a convention. if we know where we are going, this convention can also - i say it very clearly - adopt a new constitution and not a treaty amendment. we need a european constitution at last, but only after the solution of our present problems, which is absolutely crucial. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if we fight together for the europe of employment, the europe of social cohesion and the europe of democracy, we can make a good joint path. we don't have much time left until the next election. we must change this europe, we must fight together against disunity and nationalism. nationalism is something that threatens us. i am not saying that the european union should be the only one to be represented in the european parliament. if the european flag is up, then the british flag can also be up, because the common european is what unites us. (applause from the centre)
question for the commissioner: i am not sure that this is the case. when i was a young member of parliament - that was a long time ago - it was at least fun to listen to you from time to time. i'm telling you, it's just more boring now. for a decade you've been telling us how terrible this is, that everything will fall tomorrow, that disasters will come upon us. and what happens? i'm not afraid of tomorrow! there are some old gentlemen behind you who may still believe you. but there are fewer and fewer of them. that's why i'm asking you, mr. farage: when are you gonna come up with something new? or when are you gonna tell that nonsense you always tell here, somewhere else?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a critical but ardent pro-european, i am of course as concerned as almost all of you. we know that the decision taken today in karlsruhe is really just buying time. we know that all the measures that have been taken so far - whether it was the liquidity support from the ecb, the aid to greece or now the recent decision to buy bonds - have been a huge diversion of funding for banks. it's no coincidence that last thursday the bank shares soared. there is, of course, a bitter irony in this, because the city of london has benefited from these banking redistributions out of the euro area and with the euro. there is a group in this parliament which is moving massively like the apostles of this city of london - you could call them the best lobbyists - and these are the people from ukip who then talk the way we hear them talk all the time, which is very dangerous for europe. mr barroso, you are now talking about the irresponsible actions of the banks as the cause of the crisis. but we also know that we failed in politics because we failed to control the banks. if you then ask whether it is realistic, whether we can regain the trust of the markets - that is not really the question. the question is: why don't you finally tackle banking regulation as your mentor angela merkel has suggested? every player, every financial institution, every marketplace is owned and controlled. why is it that we are not talking about the fact that the most important financial law of the 20th century, the glass-steagall act of 1932 in the united states, could very well be a good model for europe? if we could do that, we would finally get away from this problem of too big to fail. we're seeing that so many banks are not only too big to fail, too big to fail, but they're also way too big to manage. you don't even have to say the word libor. why don't you have the courage to do it properly, and efficiently. the glass-steagall act is only 37 pages long. what we have so far of diffuse attempts to bring the financial world under control here is already thousands of pages long. this too leads to misunderstanding and exacerbates the crisis of confidence which you have rightly mentioned. if you are going to approach banking in this way, then of course it is also about the shadow banks, which now have a volume of almost 46 trillion euros worldwide, representing a quarter of the total financial market. and you of the commission do not even know how much money is being spent there, where and how. we don't even know what uncovered credit default swaps were made on government bonds. that is one of the main reasons why all the measures that are being taken now are being taken in this way. you can intervene. you can regulate that. and so did the rating agencies, which also made the politics, the legislators, and the lobbying industry, big. how is it possible that 700 financial lobbyists with a budget of 350 million euros can operate in brussels, and we in the economic and monetary affairs committee have to beg for the relevant information? the balance is not right at all. i am not saying that the commission has not been consulted on the matter. it is only if you do not succeed in actually controlling the great moloch of the financial market that you will not get majorities anywhere in europe for what is probably a reasonable end goal, namely a strong europe in a globalised world. they will - and you know this - at least in germany and probably also in my home country austria, not get around referendums for a new project. only, when you do these tunings, you have to do these steps first. of course, much of the truth has been said before. but once again, focus and don't let anything but the regulation of the financial markets get in the way. this is always a very central argument in conversations with citizens everywhere. we already have this new conspiracy theory that europe is really run by goldman sachs, because mr draghi, because mr monti and because a lot of what happened in greece is directly related to goldman sachs. these are dangerous tendencies. but if you could actually control the financial sector, then you wouldn't have to fear the sovereign anymore. i am convinced that we can then win the relevant referendums. but then, of course, the slogan is not banking union, but citizens' union, or in short 'citizens instead of banks'.
mr president, mr president of the commission! if you don't know your goal, you won't take the right steps to reach it. i am therefore very grateful to you for making a very clear plea for the unity of the states of europe today. our aim is the united states of europe, and how we organise it is our business. the second part, which was very important to me, is that if we are to achieve this goal, we must see the citizens as our addressees and make them our allies. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the decisionmaking process, and that the european parliament is able to take part in the decisionmaking process. thirdly, it is important to me that you did not speak of a financial crisis, but of a crisis of confidence and credibility, and that you said that it was a political crisis. because it is a political crisis, we are also in a position to solve it by getting the citizens on board. let's go after them!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr barroso, your plans today really speak of commitment, of energy and of looking in the right direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for example, there are highly educated young people in spain and greece who are unemployed en masse, or equally unemployed elderly people. this is where direct help is needed, through targeted investment in education, health and the environment and in jobs. it needs european values. i support you in that. you also mentioned the banks. people don't understand what's going on. the recent decision by the ecb is like a man who is struggling to breathe and is now being given oxygen. the commission has already made a number of proposals. let us not forget that the european union is a political union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr barroso, you spoke of growth, which is necessary. we're in agreement on that. but i would like to add something to that. growth will not work without justice. and as long as the great fortunes in the european union are growing more and more, and those who have to work hard get less and less for it, we have no justice and of course we have no growth because we have no mass purchasing power. that is why we need a partial change in our systems. we need a fairer tax system where big corporations pay taxes again. we also need fairer wages, where this immense wealth created by the hands of those who work, also comes to them. and above all, we need a fair market economy, where shareholders are not paid out and employees are not thrown out at the same time. if that changes, it will be a europe of the people. it's the only way. mr farage, you accused me of not listening. i've been sitting here all this time listening, unlike you, mr. farage.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not if mr barroso had the same support in the council as in parliament, europe would look different. first of all, i would like to expressly state that the finding of the federal constitutional court is a good finding. for the second time in a few days, the almost hysterical opponents of europe have been rebuffed by the decision of the european central bank and now by the decision of the federal constitutional court. this shows that with courage and clear decisions, it is possible to build europe, even if certain limits have been drawn. secondly, i would like to expressly support what has been said by zita gurmai and others on the women's question. i also spoke to mrs reding yesterday. it is important, especially in the economic field and also in the nominations by the european institutions, that the many good and excellent women who, like men, must have the opportunity to fill certain positions, be supported. thirdly, i should like to express my thanks for the draft on political parties which has come from the commission. it's very good that we now have a new design that will take us forward. i am committed to the principles, including those of the political parties. i shall also go to all the member states and say exactly what you have said here, mr president. fourthly, mr president, to avoid any confusion, you are committed to the european social model. that's good. i support that. but now, when i look at greece -- and i've been very clear, also in greece, that strong, often painful structural reforms are needed. not everyone in greece was happy to hear that, including my friends. but it is necessary. if the troika, including the commission, now demands the reintroduction of the six-day week, 13 hours a day and the elimination of other social rights, then this is the destruction of the welfare state. president barroso, we cannot have the social state, the social model, being promoted in this parliament and then the commission staff in the troika de facto dismantling and destroying the social state. we social democrats cannot accept that. that is not the basis of consensus. i am happy to agree with you and the commission on the social model and the welfare state, but then the commission staff must also ensure in the troika that the welfare state is not dismantled but at least maintained at its core. that is the principle which we social democrats stand for.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is astonishing again how much attention mr farage is getting. mr president of the commission, i called you 'citizens instead of banks' and you then talked at length about financial markets and the plans for regulation. but again, you haven't said a word about the very big problem of the too big to fail big banks. many citizens in europe are firmly convinced - and i count myself among them - that if this problem is not solved, if we do not shrink banks again, if we do not separate investment banks and commercial banks in the us way, it will turn out that the european union is by no means too big to fail. i ask you once again to address this problem of too big to fail. downsize the banks to upgrade europe.
in writing. when ecb president mario draghi says that the euro is irreversible, he is simply acknowledging the error of the past, which is to lead to a transfer and debt union. the purchase of government bonds by the ecb is a misuse of the law, if not a breach of it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. slovenia also shows what to think of cheerleading by supposedly model students. a few years ago laibach was considered a model candidate, so that the threat of insolvency should not actually exist. but instead of facing the harsh reality, it seems that the people are cheating and talking about what is real. the question is also who should pay for the whole euro-disaster. continually asking the economically successful euro countries like germany, austria or the netherlands for the cash will not work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the euro is not used as a currency.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the current political situation is marked by a profound scepticism on the part of many people about the ability of the european level to solve problems. the directive on minimum standards for the rights and protection of victims of crime is proof that such decisions do not always have to reflect reality. it shows how much competence there is to solve problems. for the first time, this group of people will be given the same access to justice and the same level of support throughout the union. this is a great step for europe and especially for those concerned. above all, it is also an important aid to victims of crime. these are people who, for the most part, find themselves in such a situation without their personal involvement. here is professional help that does not stop at state borders, an important signal that people are not left alone by society. so overall, a very good day for europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have rejected this report and i would like to give a brief explanation of why. first of all, i share the minority view expressed by my colleagues meyer and lösing in the attached report. the question is indeed one of militarization of the common foreign and security policy. the aim is an intervention strategy, and the separation from nato - and this is unacceptable to me as an austrian - is no longer really discernible. but i also think that the strategy regarding turkey is wrong, for example, when it calls for the opening of further chapters of accession. the failure of libya's policy is clear today at the latest in the wake of this dramatic attack in benghazi. the libyan policy has failed completely, but the report presents it very differently. in the end, the syrian policy is also wrong. it is geared to intervention, it is geared to pressure on russia, it is geared to pressure on china, and these are supposed to be our partners. all because certain interests in syria are to be acted upon. they also completely ignore the fact that the rebels there speak saudi arabian dialects. saudi arabia is not mentioned in a single word. the report is one-sided and should therefore be rejected.
in writing. − the establishment of minimum standards for the protection of victims of crime is the basis for the best possible protection and assistance for victims throughout the union and for strengthening citizens' trust in the justice system. the fear of victims of reporting crimes should be reduced, and minimum standards such as the right to information, the right to understand and be understood, the right to interpretation, victim assistance, legal hearing, offender-victim compensation, etc. are a step in this direction. the social environment of victims is also affected by crime and should be included in victim support.
in writing. − in the past repeated infringements of the un convention on the law of the sea and the un fish stocks agreement took place. the european union is responsible for ensuring sustainable fishing, and therefore an appropriate legal rule is needed to give the eu the ability to react to uncooperative behaviour by states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy, although i rejected one item relating to the free trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru. this agreement still has to pass through a threshold: the approval of the european parliament. i have reservations about the situation of human rights and trade union rights in colombia. i cannot agree to any future free trade agreement with colombia and peru unless the obligation to respect human rights is made a condition of the free trade agreement. the european union has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and it is not only the andean community but also the european union which must monitor human rights effectively.
in writing. − the idea of a new extensive approach, including all areas of the common foreign and security policy as well as determined priorities and a balanced mix in financing is reasonable. the report's particular suggestions for eu policy on how to deal with different third countries and the multilateral partners are carried out well. the priorities of the common foreign and security policy are embracing and comprehensible.
in writing. − to improve the situation in the fisheries sector (overfishing, poor employment prospects, etc.), a comprehensive reform should be adopted and a perspective for the future of the fisheries policy should be provided. at the same time, sustainability should not be forgotten, and attention is paid to the situation of fishermen, consumers and also to the problem of overfishing and accidental by-catch.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i said immediately after the commission's intervention - or even before the commission's intervention - that i would adhere strictly to what the commission had decided. i have never heard that from you, mr weber, or from mr daul in the case of hungary. the same orbán, who is still vice-president of your party, has of course taken the side of băsescu and has also influenced the decision of the people of romania from outside, or at least tried to do so. madam vice-president, i appreciate your concern on many issues. but unfortunately, with your remarks today, you have again called into question the commission's objectivity. i find that regrettable. you have spoken several times - not today - of a parliamentary coup d'état. that is a contradiction in itself. but it's not a coup. in lithuania, a president elected by the people, only by parliament and without a referendum, was deposed. there was a referendum in romania, and at that time there was no talk of a coup d'état. now they're talking about a coup. you know very well, mr weber: the 50% was introduced by băsescu just before the referendum, and in fact during the proceedings, because he knew what was coming. i'm against doing that. but i made it clear before the referendum that we must stick to the 50% afterwards. i am very glad that the government has followed that and that has been changed. because ponta keeps his word. but to speak of a coup d'état here is a scandal. it's not right. and, madam vice-president and mr weber, why did you not say anything in all the months before, when băsescu and his people ruled by emergency decrees? it was all right what mr. băsescu did with emergency orders, because they are not new. i have not heard from the commission either. all of a sudden you come in here and say this is a scandal. but if mr. băsescu or his people did it, it wasn't a scandal. that's not objective. and i want to be objective. it is interesting that mr băsescu was elected with 5.3 million votes. 7.4 million have now rejected him. this is interesting. isn't it the job of a president to make sure that people get together, that they understand each other? but this president is not acting on it. i would like to join you in this, madam vice-president, in saying that all sides should contribute to this. i do miss the contribution of mr băsescu. because 7.4 million means that two million more than voted for him have now tried to vote him out. you have to take into account how popular, how effective a president is when the majority of the population actually votes for his removal, except for those who boycotted the referendum, because that was his only chance, the boycott that he and orbán represented was the only chance of survival. i don't care if it's right or wrong. i'm just trying to acknowledge that a man here has not done his job as president of this country. many in romania saw it that way, and many still do. and actually, as a social democrat, i also see that băsescu has not fulfilled his task of bringing people together, and that we are also getting to feel it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i can understand that you don't like the idea of socialists and liberals forming a government. i understand that you and mrs macovei and many others are fighting against it. it is politically justified. only this permanent propaganda that is being carried out, with many untruths regarding the socialist and liberal government - i do not find that bearable. when mistakes are made and where mistakes are made, i say so. i say that to mr ponta directly. but untruths and lies that are constantly being spread, including here in this house, i cannot accept. and 7.4 million is still much more than the 5.3% (the president cut the speaker off) i want you to take note of that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am not surprised at the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but i am glad that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commission is able to take a decision on the matter. it is astonishing, but also irritating, to see how the two groups, which have colleagues in government in the various countries, attack each other in the same tone and without really clarifying what is at issue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. if the eu is to be the champion of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, how is it that we are only criticizing each other and not making clear what is at stake? we need new, more efficient and faster procedures to deal swiftly with violations of european values, not only the article 7 procedure as it is now in the case of hungary here in the house, but also the control procedure that the commission applies. it's taking so long, and we're not really addressing violations of human rights, democracy and media in eu member states. we have to keep going here. i too regret that mr ponta is not here today. i do not quite understand why the european parliament, why the bureau, did not put more pressure on mr ponta to come here today, as mr orbán did. that would be important. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the proposals on banking supervision are a direct consequence of the taboo breaking at the eu summit in june. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the draft budget for the esm. it has been said that it is not just the esm members, that is to say the states, that are being financed, but the banks directly. the result of this breakdown of the taboo is that the esm is now the source of the funds and the supervision of the banks is to be assumed in future by the bank which is increasingly becoming a bad bank because it will buy up all the junk bonds of the bankrupt states in europe. this system can only fail. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking sector is not left behind. if we really wanted to control the financial markets, then this banking supervision by the ecb is not enough at all. and the financial market supervision needed to control the financial markets is failing because of the resistance, above all in the united kingdom, because they are not prepared to put their own financial economy under the control of the european union. so we are in a perfect dilemma. everything that is done is insufficient. it will end up costing taxpayers billions, so we are taking another step towards a union of the perpetual debtors of the rest of europe, a new ussr. the countries with a corresponding current account must pay on a permanent basis for those countries which previously received favourable interest rates, even though they did not have the current account. this is a dead end.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's proposal is logical and it is compelling. it gives more credibility to the decisions of the june summit by giving them substance. now it's time to legislate. a common currency requires common supervision for all banks, common budgetary and tax policies, a common banking, fiscal, economic and social union and a political union as an objective. the banking union is a small mosaic on the way to drawing the lessons of the crisis and providing the answers to the common currency. we could say, why not now? two years ago we called for it to be blocked by the council until the autumn of last year. let us not start blocking the proposals in all their details again, instead of getting down to work to put them into practice and to achieve the objectives. no more roadblocks! the banking union is also linked to the work of cat4 and basel iii. i ask you to help us in the work we are doing to make the banking union compatible with these proposals. to do this we need a clear distinction between independent monetary policy and the supervisory role, between eba and the ecb and between current financial market regulation and the plans for the future. we have a lot of work to do. let's not block ourselves!
question for the commissioner: the commission is not i have noted with great admiration the commitment of mr smith. i am interested in how he personally participated in the negotiations for the relevant paragraph, because colleagues tell me that his involvement in the negotiations themselves left much to be desired in relation to our demands.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am convinced that the future of farming lies in quality. but quality has to be worth it. i therefore expressly welcome the fact that the decision on the quality package creates measures that highlight european quality and further legal protection for protected designations of origin, geographical indications and traditional specialities. it is also very important that these products are protected across european borders and that procedures cannot be cheaply copied. successful programmes are recognised by consumers. we have had very good experiences in austria with the registration of trademarks. the excellent products are recognized. but action must be taken across europe to boost sales and increase brand awareness. at the same time, measures must be taken to ensure that more such marks can be registered. the farmers need user-friendly registration procedures. i also welcome the introduction of the labelling of products from the mountain regions. this is the signature of the european parliament and i really want to thank the negotiators for their efforts. this unmistakable new brand is a milestone for the dairy industry. the mountain region produces milk with the greatest effort and the highest quality standards. consumers associate a product from the mountain region with an intact landscape, free-ranging cows on the alpine meadows, hay feeding and small farm structures. it must be possible to offset higher labour and production costs by a better product price. we'll have to work on that.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. the situation and the overall theme in central america is similar to that in peru and colombia. i can therefore agree with what the honourable member has said before, and i can therefore be a little more brief in my report. i think that the whole debate we are having now has two aspects: one technical and the other much, much more general. the technical aspect is relatively easy to explain: the safeguard clause is intended to protect european producers from unfair competition when a market is opened, particularly those in areas close to this new market. we have tried to design safeguard clauses in such a way that this works, but at the same time, of course, we have also designed them in such a way that free trade can work better in the future. there are of course some different approaches, but i think we have found good compromises to bring things to a solution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this question has also been a constant theme in the discussion on the safeguard clause. however, i must point out that the safeguard clause is only a small part of this entire agreement with central america. but that is also why we said that a safeguard clause must be more than a mere trade clause. it must also try to influence certain other things: the question of human rights, the question of social standards, the question of ecological aspects. there are legal opinions that say they would have lost nothing in a safeguard clause. i think they have lost something in this, they are even included, because a clause like this at the end - mr lange mentioned it - is intended to protect european jobs, to protect european social standards. and to do that, we also need to make sure that these things are also improved in our partner countries: social standards, human rights, working conditions. the big question is of course also - and some of my colleagues have different views - how far these attempts to influence and interfere in other countries through trade policy should go. we cannot put government action in other countries through trade policy. the most we can do is try to influence the governments there to the extent that things go in the direction we think is right. we tried that. there are, of course, different approaches to how far this should go. what came out is a compromise. i think it's a workable compromise. that is why i think it would be sensible to adopt these safeguard clauses tomorrow. the debate on the actual agreement will be even more intense in certain areas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not i take what you say very seriously, mr president, because i too, of course, always try to get the best out of it, particularly when it comes to social conditions, when it comes to protecting european jobs, but also jobs in our partner countries. i would therefore like to ask you: what are the specific points that we still need to have before you can agree to these safeguard regulations?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. this file was a piece of work that took some time. i should like to take this opportunity to thank the colleagues for the good cooperation and interesting discussion, and to thank the staff of the secretariat for the great support, and to thank my staff member who was responsible for this for the excellent work. otherwise, we're done for the day. thank you very much.
question for the commissioner: i would like to ask the honourable member whether he sees any difference between the council and parliament on the question of secrecy. how do you see the difference in privacy and secrecy between the two institutions? or is it the same thing?
i have to say, madam president, some interesting facts: we have just recently put a number of parliamentary questions to the edf, the council, the commission and also a written question to the secretary-general of the european parliament. the aim was to find out how many classified documents are in circulation in the european union. the result was as follows: the european commission has not given us any information on this. it pointed out that the administrative burden was too great. so here again i would like to ask the commission to publish the figures on the number of classified documents. the council was surprisingly transparent: there was a clear breakdown by classification level of how many documents were dealt with by the council. i'd like to pay you a big compliment. the response to the ead was relatively mixed. as for the legal basis for exchanges with the european parliament, we should look at it again and work on it. the results for the european parliament were also very interesting. the reply was that only 10 restricted documents had been sent to the european parliament in recent years. given that there are more than 10 000 classified documents on the european union network every year, it must be said quite clearly that the european parliament is clearly excluded from the flow of information on classified documents, and that is certainly incompatible with parliamentary control functions. finally, i would argue that it would be useful for the individual institutions to publish the number of classified documents processed on their websites, so that one can get an idea of whether the number is increasing or not. other information might be added.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we in the committee have unfortunately not taken full advantage of a great opportunity to put forward a more ambitious proposal from the commission. the accessibility of european cultural goods will not, once this regulation comes into force, open up access to our cultural heritage to the extent that practitioners in the field assure me. the longer the copyright term is - we have unfortunately recently extended this - the bigger the problem becomes. this is true of the orphaned works as well. the documentary, therefore, in which the author of a piece of music played in the background is no longer traceable, will ultimately remain locked and untraceable for us, because the devil is in the details of this regulation. we have built a lot of little barriers to access. we have raised the lid of europe's cultural treasure chest a little with this decision, but unfortunately we have not opened the chest so that all of us can be proud of our cultural heritage even across borders .
i have to say, madam president, the wealth of europe is its diversity, its variety of sound recordings, films, books, cultural and scientific values. only, if we lock up so many of these works, they will wither. if we can't find the copyright holders, and the search is so costly and so fraught with legal uncertainty, then something is terribly wrong. then these works will not be orphaned but lost. but we need innovation in europe. research and development should be encouraged. and to do that, of course, we also need a mosaic stone, which is easy legal, cross-border online access to the orphaned works. the rapporteur, lidia joanna geringer de oedenberg, and many of the shadow rapporteurs have done a great job. i do, however, note some cross-fire, as i would call it, in the compromises. there's a lot of good stuff in the report. it's an important first step. the next one, however - the revision clause is thankfully provided for - should be tackled with even more commitment. it is good that there is a european regulation at all. it is good that there is the principle of mutual recognition. the regulation on partial orphans, and in particular the practical regulation on the establishment of a database of orphan works, are also of particular importance. the rules on diligent search are basically good and it is that we are now talking about compensation and not remuneration. however, here too the glass can be seen as either half full or half empty, because legal uncertainties persist here, and here it can be a kind of sword of damocles for those who try to make the most careful search possible if they want to find out the authors, but have no final certainty in this regard. the so-called profit-making prohibition is more than a drop in the bucket. i say 'so-called' because the profits will of course continue to be made, the question is always: by whom? so most of the works will continue to slumber. finally, i would like to remind you of our own objective. we should prevent the creation of so many orphaned works in europe. in this context, the long protection periods are of course the main cause.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on constitutional affairs. mr president, commissioner dalli and rapporteur karim, you are all very well aware of the fact that the commission is not in a position to give you a clear answer to this question. as the author of the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs, i should like to start by saying that a point which was very important to me in this report on subsidiarity and proportionality has, for the first time since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, had its effect: the so-called 'yellow card' of the national parliaments of the member states. for the first time, a sufficient number of national parliaments of the member states have reprimanded the european commission for interfering with the competences of the member states, thus bringing down an eu regulation. i am referring to monti ii, the proposal for a regulation on the exercise of fundamental social rights in the internal market. in my view, and especially in view of the efforts to achieve greater cohesion and cooperation in the union as a way out of the crisis, this is an important instrument of democracy, both politically and, above all, economically. we all know the debate on financial market regulation, after all. it is against this background that i believe that democratic legitimacy and parliamentary scrutiny by the european parliament, but also by the national parliaments, are important instruments of democracy which must be actively promoted, but also explained to the citizens. the second point i would like to raise in this debate is the chapter in the report on reducing administrative burdens. we want to create a good working environment for small and mediumsized enterprises across the political groups. i would like to stress, however, that a general exemption of smes from european directives is not appropriate. in the field of health and safety regulations, it is absolutely not acceptable, since these directives set minimum european standards. there must be no exceptions for micro-enterprises or smes. on the contrary, member states can and should provide for greater protection for workers in their own countries.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to thank the rapporteur very much. better legislation is an extremely important issue in the european context, precisely because - and this is also the media coverage, so to speak - european laws are considered extremely complicated, incomprehensible and difficult to understand and apply. however, and i want to emphasize this very clearly here, this is also due in large part to the implementation in the member states. the experience of recent years has shown that european regulations are often used to solve national problems that have not been solved elsewhere. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is an essential and important element. we must also make a much greater effort to deal with this aspect in the context of the implementation of community law. the second point which i think is important - and the rapporteur has focused very much on this - is the question of impact assessments. i agree with him that political decisions should also be based on facts. there is nothing wrong with that. however, impact assessments can also be used very well in policy. let me give you an example. when there was an impact assessment on the introduction of megatraks, these giant trucks, on european roads, the commission took an impact assessment that looked primarily at whether large companies would make more profit, but not how much more public spending this would mean. this means that an impact assessment always depends on the criteria. if we hide political beliefs behind official impact assessments, we are not doing the good law making any good either.
the written declaration on the fight against multiple sclerosis in europe was signed by the majority of members of parliament. in accordance with rule 123 of the rules of procedure, it will be forwarded to the addressees and published with the texts adopted today. the names of the signatories will be recorded in the minutes of today's meeting.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
i am not going to vote on this motion before we go to the legislative vote.
i would like to answer the question in the affirmative, but the council is not present. the question cannot therefore be answered in the affirmative. (parliament agreed to the request for an adjournment of the vote on the legislative resolution)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are facing the same situation as in colombia and peru, and i would therefore also ask you not to vote and to refer the matter back to committee until the negotiations with the council and the commission have been concluded.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended for a short time)
i have just heard that there is no explanation of vote on the moreira report because there was no debate on it. if there is no debate in plenary, there is no explanation of vote. i ask you to understand this reference to the rules of procedure.
i voted against these motions for resolutions because they are completely one-sided. they completely ignore the fact that there are large numbers of mostly saudi-arabian-dialect mercenaries in syria who are committing horrific massacres. syria has been a stable partner for the west for decades, but also for its neighbour. the instability that is now developing in syria is a major danger for its neighbour, israel in particular. the west cannot therefore act as it did in libya or egypt. the situation there is much more dangerous for the whole region. the first question to ask is, what is saudi arabia doing there? why does the west stand by while fundamentalist muslims massacre alawites and christians there? that's the first approach. and only after the mercenaries are out of the country can we talk about what kind of stable government we want to have in syria in the future.
the text of these motions for resolutions could just as easily have come from the american republican presidential candidate, mitt romney. that is why i voted against it. i warn against meddling too deeply in russia's internal affairs. russia and the russian people are themselves capable of developing a state based on the rule of law, and they can do so at the pace and with the weight that the russians themselves determine. no country, certainly not a country the size of russia, would accept this from the outside. the united states of america would not accept anything like that either. i would like to focus first on the condemnation of the band pussy riot. i understand that the russians are sensitive to the fact that such actions are being carried out in the largest and most important church in moscow, the cathedral of christ the saviour, where i have also prayed. if the women had done the same thing in a mosque in saudi arabia or pakistan, they would have been sentenced to death. there would be no parliamentary response. so it is a cheap form of anti-russian propaganda that is being used here, and i am opposed to the attempt to drive europe into a conflict with russia.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also voted against these motions because i believe that the banking union as a whole is a band-aid on a huge burn called the financial crisis. i think that this banking union which the president of the commission proposed yesterday is quite ridiculous. the debate that followed showed that most of the colleagues were of the opinion that this banking supervision means financial supervision. that's totally wrong. it's something else entirely. the banking supervision proposed by the president of the commission does not allow financial and investment houses such as goldman sachs to be monitored, nor does it allow financial products to be withdrawn from the market. it can be used to monitor the activities of a few small banks. but that's all it is. but the financial problems that various financial institutions have caused us, especially goldman sachs with its advisory activities through mario draghi in greece, cannot be tackled by this supervision. so what is being proposed here is downright ridiculous. it is another attempt to use the crisis to create a political union and then to impose it on the european citizens as a political union, a sort of state emerging from the crisis. i reject it outright!
in writing. − the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation (stc) between the european community and the federative republic of brazil entered into force in 2007 for the first time for a period of five years. the agreement is intended to facilitate cooperation and the exchange of scientific research between the eu and brazil. the aim is to develop joint research projects that will benefit both sides. since there is no clear cost-benefit breakdown of the latest agreement between the eu and brazil, i am not sure that it would actually make sense to extend the agreement, which is costing the eu a lot of money. that is why i abstained.
in writing. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-brazil science and technology cooperation agreement. this agreement was last adopted in 2007 and expires in 2012. such an agreement can certainly bring benefits to the eu in the field of technology and science, but there is no breakdown of the costs and benefits to the eu of the last agreement. in economically difficult times, however, such analysis is needed before any commitments are made. i refrained from doing so.
in writing. −the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the eu and algeria was signed in 2002. it already mentions cooperation in scientific and technological research as an area of particular interest and potential. the eu considers scientific research to be an essential factor in building a knowledge-based society and reducing unemployment in the context of the opening up of the algerian economy. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the commission's proposals. i am afraid that the eu could provide a large part of the funding, especially in the planned establishment of joint research centres, since the algerian economy is still far from being at european level, and i therefore abstained.
in writing. − the smart regulation agenda seeks to build on the efforts to improve legislation, simplify eu legislation and reduce administrative and regulatory burdens. the agenda offers a new opportunity for the eu institutions to fully implement good governance based on evidence-based policy making, with impact assessments and ex-post controls as key elements. the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making needs to be adapted to the current legal environment created by the lisbon treaty. in principle, the revision of the subsidiarity controls is to be welcomed. the report does not, however, cover the attempt to eliminate national competences at eu level through back doors. i have taken these considerations into account in my voting behaviour.
in writing. − many eu rules remain opaque and puzzling to europe's citizens. it is therefore important and necessary to develop measures to monitor the functioning of legislation which has entered into force. this is the only way to make a definitive statement on the usefulness of a regulation. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the better regulation report highlights the importance of the eu respecting the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality as laid down in the treaties. in particular, national parliaments have criticised the commission's inadequate or inadequate justification of the principle of subsidiarity. it is also essential to involve national parliaments in the legislative process and to create conditions which enable the subsidiarity and proportionality checks to be carried out.
in writing. − in 2012 and 2013, the atlantic partners will work together to develop an action plan under the european maritime strategy for the atlantic. there is nothing inherently wrong with this approach. however, it is not possible to avoid the suspicion that the eu should be used primarily for financial support. the chances of success of the desired synergy effects may be called into question on the basis of past experience. to date, all marine strategies have not been particularly successful. the commission has not yet succeeded in ensuring that existing policies, such as those relating to marine surveillance and overfishing, are respected. i think that the strategy for the atlantic area within the framework of cohesion policy is an unworkable wish-fulfillment which will cost a lot of money at most, and i voted accordingly.
in writing. − the argument that a reliable energy supply is best secured by a functioning internal energy market is not borne out by the experience of the consequences of energy market liberalisation efforts and privatisation problems in general. the much-vaunted reductions in electricity prices that liberalization is supposed to bring are not noticed by the final consumer. the bills of the energy companies are so complex that they are almost impossible to compare. this may be one of the main reasons why, contrary to forecasts, few consumers actually switched suppliers. i can only agree with a few of the statements in the report, such as the concern about the eu's continued high energy dependence. i cannot agree with the report in sum.
in writing. the report favours extending the commission's powers with regard to intergovernmental agreements between third countries and eu member states. the commission should be present in future in negotiations between a member state and a third country in the field of energy policy, according to the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. energy policy in the eu is not uniform and accordingly the requirements in an intergovernmental agreement will be completely different. for this reason, member states should continue to be able to negotiate on their own responsibility and alone. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - european agricultural products are among the highest quality in the world. this is partly due to the long tradition of agriculture and the optimisation of the tools used. to ensure that consumers are assured of the origin and content of their products, there are european-wide quality labels such as protected designation of origin (pdo), protected geographical indication (pgi), traditional speciality guaranteed (tsg), organic farming and outermost regions. as the end user still has some difficulties in navigating through the jungle of information on the products concerned, i agree with the rapporteur that we should aim for greater clarity and also simplification. first of all, the quality scheme for traditional specialities guaranteed should apply to all processed products. i also agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary to define clearly what is meant by production steps. the introduction of a seal valid throughout the eu, which can only be used on products which have undergone the same registration procedure under the same conditions, would also be welcome. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − food standards in europe are the highest in the world. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. this requires a transparent system to inform the public about the importance of the certification/seal. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the eu has created quality labels (pgi, pgi, pgi) for high-quality regional food. in order to provide greater clarity for producers, clear definitions of terms and a simplification of the entire text should be introduced. in addition, additional and well-defined product groups are included to create added value for both consumers and producers. i have agreed to this report.
in writing. − social enterprises are defined as those that have a positive social impact and whose purpose is primarily social rather than profit-maximising. although social enterprises often receive public funding, investment through private funds that invest in social enterprises in a targeted way remains essential for their growth. such social investment funds are rare. cross-border investment in such funds is proving to be complex and expensive. the european funds are intended to help overcome the chronic shortage of funding for enterprises and social entrepreneurship initiatives. the funds are intended to be used only by companies which use their profits to achieve their social objectives. the aim is to open the fund to institutional investors and wealthy individuals. experience with micro-credit, among other things, has shown that well-intentioned social projects, when heavily involved in the private sector, can develop an uncontrollable dynamic that is the direct victim of those who should have benefited. in this respect, the proposal seems to me to be too little thought out and i cannot therefore agree with it.
in writing. − orphan works are works whose rightsholders cannot be identified or traced. to date, libraries that have digitized such works are not allowed to make them available to the public because the question of authorship cannot be clarified. consequently, the non-commercial use of orphan works is not possible either. in addition, there is no europe-wide regulation on this subject, which means that the accessibility of orphan works differs from one member state to another, which brings significant disadvantages for the individual user. the eu is also at a significant competitive disadvantage in the online market, following a court decision in the us that gives 'google books' the legitimacy to publish orphan works. intellectual property is a commodity that needs to be protected, especially in the age of online media. the report suggests that the orphan status of a work can be lifted if an author reports legitimate copyright infringements through publication. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that it is time to create legal certainty for users on the internet, which goes beyond the borders of individual member states.
in writing. − orphan works, i.e. works of unknown authorship, have the problem of not being published. even non-commercial use is prohibited unless the author gives his consent. the report favours the publication of orphan works for non-commercial use in all member states. this would allow citizens legal access to the content of these works. the eu-wide availability of orphan works would promote europe's cultural diversity and provide an additional source of knowledge and learning. if the author is found, the status of 'orphan work' could be revoked. on the other hand, many questions remain about copyright. the question of the author's remuneration and the possible harmonization of the databases of the member states have not yet been settled. that's why i abstained.
in writing. − according to the united nations, more than 20,000 people have been killed in syria since the beginning of the unrest. all attempts by international politics to end this crisis and the fighting have so far failed. unfortunately, there are too many outside influences that only exacerbate the situation in the country. we have heard of arms deliveries to both sides. the commission has also been informed that the council has decided to suspend the operation of the common fisheries policy. this is totally unacceptable. the european union must not allow syria to be used as a playground and a strategic staging area for international powers. the aim must be to stop the bloodshed as soon as possible. this requires both increasing pressure on the assad regime to prevent further human rights violations and making clear in talks with the opposition that the transition to democracy must be as orderly and peaceful as possible. we must avoid a chaos like that in libya. unfortunately, this resolution does not take all this into account and is pursuing unilaterally the policy which has so far failed, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. − the current political conflict in syria under the regime of president assad is accompanied by a high level of human rights violations, numerous crimes against humanity and increasing militarization. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the report was approved.
in writing. - of course, what is happening in russia cannot be measured by western democratic standards. there's a lot to catch up on here. however, the question arises whether it is the task of the eu, which is not flawless and is currently struggling with very different problems, to constantly interfere in russia's internal affairs. because nothing else is the case of pussy riot. a rock band invades the cathedral of christ the saviour in moscow, the central place of worship of the russian orthodox church - comparable to st. peter's basilica for catholics - and shouts slogans to the faithful, such as "the church is god's shit!" this is tasteless, for one thing. when the western media turns this unannounced and unregistered "concert" at the altar into a "punk prayer in the church", one has to ask why this happens. praising pussy riot for this action as a symbol of freedom and democracy is not only impious, it is simply too transparent to attack president putin again. the same goes for the outrage over the conviction, which is understandable for the lack of remorse on the part of the rock band. the penalty is another matter. despite all the justified criticism of the events in russia, this resolution is to be rejected as too one-sided, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. − observations of recent events in russia show that there are doubts about both the respect for human rights and the rule of law in russia. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new community rules on the protection of the environment. in this context, there is a need for continuous monitoring of russian government bodies for compliance with osce standards and for a constant exchange of views with russia on human rights.
in writing. - banking regulation is only the first step towards a european banking union. and it's going to get there, and it's going to get there much faster than we thought. it is clear that this supervisory authority, which is to be located at the ecb, cannot be responsible for all 6000 banks in the eurozone. in any event, smaller institutions should be supervised by national authorities. the cross-border pool is a misguided approach because the harmonisation of eu supervisory law and practice is not sufficiently developed. therefore, if the euro area countries and the european parliament support the commission's proposal, small banks will be able to borrow directly from the esm from the beginning of 2013, without going through the national government. this is the collective liability for european bank debts. the crisis fund, as a capital donor, also becomes a co-owner of many institutes, for example in spain. crossborder credit and transfer services are de facto the pooling of liability. in a common european deposit guarantee, banks would have to deposit money without being able to influence the risk and business policies of banks in other countries. this is like an invitation to particularly risky trades that such institutions would otherwise avoid. all the proposals must therefore be rejected.
author. − mr president, as we have just been hearing this urgent human rights matter relates to a case that mingles several levels. it involves the unresolved conflict and the current stalemate in the peace process on nagorno-karabakh and the surrounding occupied territories, as well as an act of a brutal personal revenge in the form of a pre-meditated murder and the deplorable glorification of a murderer. it also involves the economic crisis in the new eu member state and irresponsible acts by heads of government and state respectively. let us start at the beginning. mr safarov, as we have heard, was transferred to azerbaijan from hungary long before his sentence was completed. the european parliament strongly condemns that. he was granted a presidential pardon by president aleyev there, and he has been honoured as a national hero and promoted to major in the azeri military. all despite the fact that he has not repented of the brutal murder of an armenian soldier that he committed in budapest in 2004. i acknowledge the legitimate frustration in azerbaijan about the lack of substantial progress in the peace process, but acts of brutal revenge, and turning murderers into national heroes, is an appalling way of reacting and risks further escalating – not just rhetorically – the ethnic conflict between armenia and azerbaijan. mr schöpflin, hungary has not played a merely marginal role in that. let us look at hungary. hungary’s prime minister, viktor orban, has a huge share of responsibility here. just at the beginning of this week he admitted that he himself gave way and said ‘yes’ to transferring safarov back to baku, that he ignored the warnings from his own administration, and that he himself – that is the interpretation – is responsible for heating up the conflict in the caucusus. this brave admission gives rise to the interpretation that, following his recent visit to baku, mr orban knowingly and deliberately helped to pardon a murderer, and sacrificed diplomatic relations with armenia for a highly questionable economic deal to help his own country out of the crisis. i hope our amendments on hungary will also be put to the vote here, because we have to be critical both of the azeri president and of the hungarian prime minister. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question pursuant to rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i know about this letter. i have the letter from the ministry of justice of the republic of azerbaijan, but it can be interpreted in various ways. it does not give total assurance. even mr schöpflin has acknowledged that, while it can be interpreted in that way, it leaves leeway to interpret it in a way that does not give assurances. the hungarian prime minister should have listened to his minister for foreign affairs and others in his administration who warned him about transferring safarov back to baku.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for his excellent report. the priorities for the forthcoming 2013 budget are mainly in support of sustainable growth, competitiveness and employment. here again, the focus is on smes and young people. it is indeed surprising to note that the council has made the most cuts in commitment appropriations in heading i. this is the most important heading for achieving the 2020 targets. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic crisis. only well-educated young people - and also older people - have a chance of a sustainable job. similarly, only healthy people will be able to contribute to a functioning society. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's role in sport is based on the principle of subsidiarity. let's take the right steps. it is the money of our citizens. it is they who should be the focus of our attention, especially in these times of growing crisis. it is the last year of the current mff. we must find the right balance between saving and investing!
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! i would be glad if we could also see clear signals from the council in the 2013 proposal on how we can increase the potential for growth and competitiveness in europe and, above all, how we can put young people back into employment. could you tell us in which budget lines you intend to promote youth employment and to focus on entrepreneurship and small and mediumsized enterprises? we know that the target programme is the essential precondition for this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do you think that we can overcome the crisis in europe by cutting back on those things that guarantee growth and employment? i have heard that the council is going to be proposing growth and employment packages. where is this to be found in this budget presented by the council?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a few remarks on various budgetary items. the only reason why parliament can still afford the luxury of two seats is simply that the public is not aware of this outrage. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it would be a huge scandal and the whole travelling circus thing would be shut down soon. i would of course prefer strasbourg as the only location, because here the house seems to me to be somewhat more stable than in brussels. the television of the european parliament is completely unknown to the public. the idea is good, and so is the transparency it promotes, but without effective marketing means it is a waste of money. i also welcome the council's proposals to reduce the funding for the agencies; i would, however, not cut the return fund, but increase it, as would the funding for frontex.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to ask the council representatives first of all. i am not a member of the committee on budgets, but i am a member of the committee on health, the committee on regional policy and the committee on agriculture - essentially those areas which are responsible for the bulk of legislation and the bulk of the redistribution of european funds. my request is not to speak with two tongues. i know that the council is, of course, primarily responsible to the voters in the member states. i also know that the council, together with parliament and the commission, has committed itself to implementing a whole series of european programmes within the framework of community policy. and we can only achieve this objective, this added value for europe, if the appropriate budgetary resources are made available. i would therefore ask you, in the spirit of a community europe, a europe of solidarity and a europe of progress, not to spare where we could promote precisely that, namely employment, social cohesion and social integration. i would like to see a european budget which takes account of the consolidation efforts of the individual national budgets.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a bad joke that 2013 is being declared the european year of citizens. because these are the citizens who are being expropriated by the eu without being asked. in the end, the taxpayer will be held responsible for debts for which he is not responsible, without being asked by the esm. in any civil contract, such a major change would require the consent of all parties. the most affected party in this case is undoubtedly the citizens and taxpayers, not the governments or the commission. the citizens must be able to vote directly in their country whether they want a restructuring, a transfer action or whether they want the eu to be restructured into a federal state. instead of flowery words about eu citizenship, 2013 should be used to finally listen to the citizens!
in writing. although the number of hungry people worldwide has decreased, according to a un report, one in eight still lacks sufficient food. and in africa, the trend is even reversed. there are a number of highly problematic developments in development aid. the fact that, according to an imf study, the public spending of 33 countries is more than 50% dependent on international development aid should give us cause for reflection, as should the fact that aid deliveries are being misused to finance war in somalia, for example. it is also worrying that development aid is used to support agricultural projects that force the displacement of the indigenous population and thus exacerbate hunger and poverty. the eu has helped to speed up this development by setting biofuel standards. nor can it be that, after a debt cancellation, china will be encouraged to take on new debt to secure supplies of raw materials. it is clear that a number of changes are needed, with the need to reinforce the reduction of the birth explosion as a key contribution to the fight against hunger and poverty. but it is also impossible for states to want development aid but not even be prepared to take back their own citizens.
in writing. the report addresses an important issue: development aid for middle-income countries. this should be phased out. at the same time, however, it was necessary to establish targeted cooperation with the poorest regions in these countries. we need a triangular cooperation: between northern donor countries, emerging countries, and developing countries. brics countries need to take more responsibility when they act in developing countries (e.g. china/africa). the focus must always be on helping people to help themselves, which can be achieved through micro-credit for smes, for example. the provision of development aid must also be linked to respect for human rights, in particular the protection of religious or ethnic minorities, and the rights of women and children. 2) and be linked to the cooperation of the receiving countries in taking back illegal migrants!!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. we see that there is a great deal of interest in small and mediumsized enterprises in the plenary. i am always glad when the economic power of this sector is recognized. above all, we know that 85% of new jobs in europe are created by companies that are no more than five years old. it has nothing to do with the age of the entrepreneurs, but with the age of the company. that is why it is very important that we take care that new businesses are created, that the culture of becoming an entrepreneur is also emphasized more in education and training. entrepreneurship does not happen overnight, but it starts in kindergarten with self-employment. and a large part of the population in europe wants to be independent and to decide for themselves, so it is also important for us to see that these forms of spin-off of the business angels, especially for women, for young people and for migrants, represent a real opportunity for the future. the main objective of industrial policy is to strengthen competitiveness. the commission has taken a good initiative in this respect. unfortunately, we in europe have not been very successful with our industrial policy. we've had a 10% decline since 2008. i think it would be important to strengthen the sme test in the national member states accordingly. the economic and social committee could play an important role here at european level in monitoring the proper implementation of the sme test. the social partners in particular would be in a position to make positive proposals on how to simplify. a multilingual online portal would also be important, so that when exporting or importing to other countries, you can see what the regulations and problems are. you could cluster that into different areas. so here too, in the field of exports, there are entirely new opportunities, especially for small businesses which have a big world ahead of them, especially with the internet, with international payment systems, with the parcel service which is exploding with information and communication technology. but again, it's important to start with the people. that is why i am particularly concerned about the erasmus for young entrepreneurs programme, which must be massively expanded in the period up to 2020. we are seeing that this programme is now being extremely well received, particularly in those countries where there are problems in the area of cohesion. we are even in favour of this becoming an erasmus mundus project, a project that can be used worldwide, so that young entrepreneurs can go to their suppliers, their customers, meet new markets, new people, so that business can improve accordingly. here we should support the enterprise europe network because there is already a lot of expertise there and this is an area that could be rolled out globally to lead to greater success. but competitiveness also means that we need to stop bureaucracy. the reduction of administrative burdens must be addressed here. the aim would be to reduce administrative burdens by 25% by 2015 at least. i see a starting point here too, namely that the committee of the regions could come up with a number of proposals which could then be adopted by the commission. competitive taxation and, ultimately, a transfer of ownership are also important.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all want to provide a good working environment for small and mediumsized enterprises and micro-enterprises across all political groups. they are important employers in the european union. more growth and increased productivity and excellent companies with good skilled workers are of immense importance to us. that is why we need healthy and satisfied workers. your report, mr rübig, sends the wrong message to the commission in this respect. safety and health regulations at work are qualified as administrative burdens subject to the sme test. health and safety standards, which are set at european level as minimum standards, are by definition not administrative burdens. the commission is also proposing that the member states should not go for a 'gold plating' approach, i.e. that they should not adopt better health standards, and that the commission should work towards greater harmonisation. however, since the health and safety regulations are all minimum standards, a high level of protection for the safety and health of workers is always permitted. and i want to keep it that way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president! there are currently some 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises. they employ 75 million people, accounting for 70% of all jobs in the european union. these basic facts are sufficient proof of the importance of empowering smes accordingly. they are key players in the european economy in times of crisis and are definitely an engine that can and does contribute to growth and sustainability. i would like to thank mr rübig for his really detailed report.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not president van rompuy, i would like to begin with what you have started with: the question of the ecb and gender equality. firstly, i have a different opinion on the substance of mr mersch's statements, which have disappointed me greatly. but what has disappointed me even more is your position and your presentation today. mr van rompuy, that is not enough! (applause from the centre) we are not prepared to accept excuses here. we also showed personal commitment because we believed we could move forward and we built a bridge. the president of parliament has built a bridge. and all you have to say about gender equality is, yes, we don't have enough! we did not want a description of the situation, we wanted a commitment of how it should proceed in the future. and we didn't get that. i'm sorry about that. (applause from the centre) let me now come to the council. i think the result was lukewarm. i don't want to say it was negative, but it was still lacking substance. the growth pact: you don't have to meet at 27 or 28 to find out that the growth pact is not working yet. the countries must cooperate to make it work. this is the crucial task facing the countries. and the problem is not just the growth pact, of course. i very much regret that we cannot have a more detailed discussion today on why the commission and the majority of the council still do not accept what the world bank has found, namely that their calculations are wrong and that the policies we are pursuing are leading to recession. unfortunately, the epp, the eca and the liberals have prevented us from discussing this. it is not about the growth pact, it is about changing the growth policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i ask the commission and the majority of the council to do so! (applause from the centre) do you not see that the increase in unemployment is parallel to the increase in euroscepticism or rejection of europe? that's the problem we have today. there are many foggings by mrs merkel and mr schäuble, there is talk of the euro budgets, of the super commissioner, but they do not want to solve today's problems. because even in the case of banking union, you can see how necessary it was that françois hollande said we need banking union now or relatively soon. this is not a question between germany and france, it is a question between two different conceptions. the first is that institutional questions are important, and we are thinking about the convention which we want to convene as soon as possible, perhaps as early as december. we're thinking about the superintendent. but that we might think about the social problems that policy creates, they don't want us to think about that, and about the problems in spain and ireland with the banks and the recapitalization of the banks, they don't want us to think about that. i can only say that we in the socialist group will not leave spain or ireland alone. we will fight for the banking union to be established soon - with reasonable rules, of course - and for the esm to be able to recapitalise, and we agree with that, mr president of the commission! and that is why this delaying tactic is met with resistance. careful consultation, yes, but a solution soon. we do not want the crisis to worsen in spain and ireland and other countries, we do not want to have more unemployed. we cannot have that as our aim, it is absolutely intolerable for us. i would therefore like to mention the social question again: mr van rompuy, we need this fifth sector, this fifth pillar for social questions. it is absolutely necessary. we cannot allow the social question to be treated so en passant with a few sentences. if you, mr barroso, and you, mr van rompuy, said at the press conference: 'yes, we see the social misery', then i have to say to you again: it is not up to you to determine what is, but it is up to you to change things. and to fight for a social europe. that's what we need! (applause from the centre) we are very proud of the nobel prize! and we also hand out badges because we're very proud of it, as a group. but we have not yet won the nobel prize for social peace within, we have to earn it. if we get the nobel prize for this, i'm satisfied that we did it in europe. but we haven't gotten there yet. on the contrary, many of the measures taken today are the opposite. i would like to make one final comment on mr cameron. we should make it clear to mr cameron - he wants to veto the budget - that we have a stronger veto. because if you veto the budget, there will still be a budget, namely the budget for 2013 and the budget for 2012! i am very glad that mr cameron is doing this, that he is showing that he is not interested in europe, that he is pushing countries like poland and so on further back. we're on the long side. if mr cameron does not want to agree, we will use the 2012 budget as the basis for future budgets. mr. callaghan, you should tell mr. cameron that! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if you do not want to have anything to do with europe, then do so, but do not try to talk and decide what happens in europe all the time. in europe, those who are committed to europe should decide! i think that is a principle which mr cameron should also understand. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european council has already announced that no decisions will be taken, but only guidelines will be set. i believe that these changes are the only way to continue the centralist path which has led the eurozone to a dead end. instead of giving the failed states the possibility of withdrawing from the eurozone if necessary, a fiscal union, i.e. control by brussels of national budgets, was discussed. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive. after all, it is the result of inscrutable speculation that one bank after another has to be bailed out with taxpayers' money. however, even good banking supervision will not be able to make a substantial contribution to ending the euro crisis, because this would undoubtedly require a total reform of monetary union. but instead of finally pulling the emergency brake here, the eurozone is apparently to be further centralised. the question is whether the european parliament can be expected to take part in the negotiations on the single currency.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not want to keep you long, i just want to remind colleagues that on 23 october 1956 a major european event - the hungarian revolution - began. unfortunately, it is sometimes abused by extremists, as in the case of the demonstrations today by jobbik and nick griffin, a homophobic extremist from the british nationalist party. it was a big, very important event in the history of europe - of course, along with the berlin uprising and the prague spring. we should not let this day pass without remembering all those who fought bravely in a revolution that was unfortunately crushed by soviet troops. but it was an important symbol of european freedom. it is important to remember this day, especially in view of the nobel peace prize.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. he is suspected of having illegally published private e-mails of hans-peter martin. the austrian prosecutor also wants to investigate the suspicion of an illegal recording of the conversation, of which the persons involved are said to have been unaware. the european parliament must waive the immunity of mr ehrenhauser so that the austrian prosecutor can pursue his suspicions. i voted for the waiver of the immunity of martin ehrenhauser because i believe that all members of parliament must be 100 per cent of integrity. that is the duty which each of us has to the electorate. only by fully explaining the cause can the voter be sure that everything is going to be done right. if ehrenhauser is innocent, the prosecution must prove it as well as his guilt. the rule of law requires this, even for politicians who have the confidence of the people.
in writing. the austrian prosecutor's office is investigating mep martin ehrenhauser, who is suspected of having illegally published private e-mails of hans-peter martin, following a complaint by mep hans-peter martin. another suspicion is that the conversation was illegally recorded, without the knowledge of the persons involved. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the investigation and to provide the necessary information to the member states. i voted for the waiver of the immunity of martin ehrenhauser because it is in the interests of the electorate to have the cause fully explained.
in writing. − the commission's draft budget for 2013 now includes the reductions made by the council in july and even more spending, such as on growth and foreign policy, bringing the total commitments to eur 151.2 billion and the payment appropriations to eur 137.9 billion. i am clearly in favour of the cuts, because it is not possible that the eu budget is being increased substantially every year and that, on the other hand, states and countries are being forced to save. there is not only a lot of savings potential in the many agencies and in the administration, but it must be used now. now, to identify the students as victims and to question the erasmus programme is really very bad and should make everyone see clearly how the eu's policies are made. the proposed cuts would leave the parliament's budget €8.9 million short of the commission's draft. this represents an inflation-adjusted increase of 1,9% compared to 2012, but is a nominal, i.e. real, reduction, as the additional costs of croatia's accession to the eu result in a lack of funds in other areas of the budget.
in writing. - a few remarks on various budgetary items. the only reason why parliament can still afford the luxury of two seats is simply that the public is not aware of this outrage. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it would be a huge scandal and the whole travelling circus thing would be shut down soon. the citizens are also completely unfamiliar with europarl tv. the idea is good, and so is the transparency it promotes, but it is not an effective marketing tool and is a waste of money. i also welcome the council's proposals to reduce the funding for the agencies; i would, however, not cut the return fund, but increase it, as would the funding for frontex. in conclusion, i am opposed to cutting erasmus funding. studying abroad must remain affordable for all students!!
in writing. − the draft resolution on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework is part of parliament's contribution to the november summit on the long-term eu budget. it warns eu governments against cutting the funds proposed by the commission. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment. the commission is also calling for further concrete proposals to reform the eu's own resources system from vat revenues that flow directly into the eu budget. the overall aim is to increase the eu budget even further. this is a matter of principle in the case of reduced working hours. it is hard to see why municipalities, counties and states should save iron, but the eu wants to spend more and more money. what we need is a transfer of eu competences back to the nation states in many areas. the eu's financial needs will then also be significantly reduced. the commission's own taxes are to be rejected.
in writing. - vat was designed as the basis for calculating part of the eu contribution. the system of calculating own resources has become a complex system, since a number of factors have to be taken into account. a new proposal for the calculation of own resources has now been drawn up. there is no objection to adjustments to take account of overseas territories or the special vat treatment of certain regions. the new uniform percentages are designed to punish those member states which have a weak administration. the commission will also be responsible for the bulk of the calculations. both are a further step towards centralisation and a reduction in the powers of the national governments, which i strongly oppose.
in writing. - i am opposed to uniform percentages for the calculation of own resources, because this method is tantamount to member states paying for it with a lean administration. i also do not see why the commission should have to carry out the calculation centrally. i have voted against this report on these grounds.
in writing. − the increase in the 2014-2020 financial framework requested by the majority of the european parliament is to be rejected in a decisive way, at a time when member states are embarking on austerity measures. instead of crying for more money, we should finally use the countless savings potentials and cut red tape. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have rejected the budgetary regulation because there are still opportunities for savings to be missed.
in writing. − in view of the current poor economic and social situation in the eu, i do not consider it necessary to increase the financial envelope for 2014-2020 and therefore reject the financial regulation. i am firmly opposed to the commission's proposals for increased spending in the next financial framework. it is time to have better and more targeted control of expenditure, which is why i rejected the budgetary regulation.
in writing. there is one thing i would like to say about the european commission's work programme for 2013, and i am very critical of it. the european commission has no plans to do anything about health and safety at work. it seems that the commission has, in addition to its regulatory agenda for financial markets - which i of course welcome very much - a 'deregulation agenda' for the area of our companies and their environment. i am afraid that the basic minimum standards we have in the european union are being systematically eroded. the pretext of making the working environment easier for all enterprises (and with 98% of small and mediumsized enterprises in the eu, i can speak of all) in order to boost the economy and industry in europe, weakens the existing aquis in europe. i am particularly struck by this when it comes to workers' participation rights, and apparently also in health and safety standards at work. the european social dialogue is under enormous pressure.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it is not surprising that the telephone lines in the german ministry of economic affairs are always busy whenever dual-use goods are on the agenda. then they'll intervene. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when we discuss this, we must be clear about what we are talking about. it is not about desk chairs, as the honourable member has just pointed out. we're dealing with weapons-capable civilian property! it's about dangerous chemicals! it's also about software. and it was software exported from europe that killed people in the middle east just a year ago -- and maybe still is -- because it was used in our neighboring countries across the mediterranean by those who committed human rights abuses and persecuted, tortured and in some cases killed human rights activists. it will be possible to discuss whether these exports cannot be approved beforehand. what does it change in the bureaucratic effort if you do this reporting before instead of 30 days later? it's not more bureaucracy, it's just a little more security. more security for the people who will then suffer, that these goods will be exported, that some european companies may make more profit! i think it is more important that we as the european parliament ensure that european industry exports, but that it is also well controlled, and that it is controlled beforehand. that is why we social democrats are so interested in seeing progress in this direction. i understand the commission, i understand the epp. they want everything to be quick, everything to be smooth. the problems which this creates are more serious than the concerns which have just been expressed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have come back because i wanted to comment on what mr dartmouth said, because it was interesting in some ways but it was wrong. the dual-use regulation is not about europe trying to stop the uk from exporting. the point is that all european exporters have the same opportunities. i know britain as a very correct and lawful country. but there are others in europe who do not follow all the rules, who do not look very closely at what is exported. and it is precisely such a system that creates equal opportunities for those who obey the law. i think that's true for your country. i would therefore ask you not to always be opposed to everything europe does on principle, but to look carefully at what it is really about. there are also benefits for britain from europe's action. and i think that's what's happening now. so, mr. dartmouth, think about it and really look at what this case is about.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. dual-use items are goods and technologies that have both civil and military uses, such as computers, electronics and aerospace technology. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the fact that the community is not able to take action to prevent the spread of the disease. the rapid development of technological products today makes it right and important to ensure that the eu can respond quickly and flexibly. it is bad for the european economy if third countries react faster and gain a competitive advantage. in principle, effective enforcement depends on essential conditions: first, smooth communication between the member states' authorities, second, effective cooperation between the control agencies and third, strict sanctions for non-compliance.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i just wanted to explain that item 51, which is now up for vote, is a compromise which we have accepted in committee by a large majority. it is true that we want to relieve micro-enterprises as much as possible, but not in terms of basic requirements in the european union in the field of health and safety at work or basic eu workers' rights or basic principles of environmental legislation. it is important that we clarify here that there is no free legal space for micro-enterprises, but that we very much recognise that existing basic rules must also be respected by micro-enterprises. i therefore ask that you accept the compromise.
in writing. − this proposal for a decision on the inclusion of forest reproductive material of the category 'qualified' in the scope of the abovementioned decision and the updating of the names of the authorities responsible for authorisation and control of production is to be accepted.
in writing. − the european year of citizens is an important opportunity to put citizenship of the union at the centre of the european debate. the european people are far too little aware of this context, and especially of the rights that are associated with it. europe-weariness, euroscepticism and anti-europeanism are the direct consequences of this deficit. the european year therefore offers a great opportunity to bring the european project closer to citizens and to contribute to the building of a european public. only in this way can the active participation of the people be ensured. europe needs not only politicians but also people who are prepared and able to engage in society. the success of the european year depends on two important conditions: the european union is also committed to the development of a european civil society. the second is that it requires the appropriate use of financial resources. the current budget allocation for this purpose is far from reflecting the importance of the 2013 european year and the opportunities it offers.
in writing. - the report on the european year of citizens aims to raise awareness of the rights of union citizens and, above all, to make them better known. one important point is to live, study and work in another eu country. there are better and equal opportunities for all.
in writing. − the benefits of a single airspace are clear increased competition/growth, positive effects on employment and the environment, and the entire value chain. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union.
in writing. − the egf is designed to provide additional support to workers who suffer from the effects of globalisation and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. this request from ireland has been examined and concerns 592 redundancies: talk talk was originally set up to provide services; it grew very rapidly and subsequently had to simplify its processes and streamline systems to meet the new challenges - causing drastic business declines.
in writing. − the egf is designed to provide additional support to workers who suffer from the effects of globalisation and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. this request from sweden was examined and concerns 987 persons who were affected by redundancies. the swedish authorities stressed that they had not expected mass redundancies at astrazeneca because of their strong position in medical research. the deterioration in the pharmaceutical market was unpredictably drastic and eventually led to the layoffs.
in writing. − the egf is designed to provide additional support to workers who suffer from the effects of globalisation and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. this application from spain was examined; it concerns 878 redundancies. these companies are producers in the metal sector which act as subcontractors for the shipbuilding industry. the financial crisis has changed the development of the shipbuilding market and the global economic crisis has led to a sharp decline in order volumes.
in writing. − the dual-use export control framework has two objectives: the risk of proliferation and military use should be limited without restricting legitimate trade. rapid technical progress means that international lists of goods subject to control are constantly being updated.
in writing. - until the conflict between israelis and palestinians is resolved in a way that is beneficial to both parties, i do not think it would make sense to further strengthen either party by means of an economic agreement. i would like to emphasize this by referring to the concerns expressed in the opinion of the afet committee about the refusal of the eu to recognise the israeli approach of applying the agreement and all legislation to the annexed territories as well. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − the report on the future of eu development policy makes it clear that the practices, principles and approaches should not be abandoned and should be further developed. the quality of the assistance should be given special emphasis. key areas include good governance, 'sustainable, broad-based economic growth' and the development of social protection systems in developing countries.
in writing. − i am pleased that the european parliament has supported the paul rübig report, which is very important for promoting the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). as ambitious as the europe 2020 strategy is, we will not be able to achieve its objectives without providing sufficient support to smes. it is therefore important to facilitate their access to capital markets and to simplify sme financing instruments and programmes in order to reduce administrative burdens. equally important are the recommendations contained in the report on the necessary measures to help smes to enter new markets. the report notes that only 13% of smes have expanded beyond the eu. incentives must be created to enable european smes to grow, increase their innovation capacity and offer goods and services worldwide. within the framework of the eu trade policy, solutions must be developed to help smes access the capital they need to start financing their exports, also using other appropriate eu instruments. it is also necessary to ensure effective protection of smes against unfair commercial practices that they are frequently exposed to. i also support the creation of a dedicated web portal to provide smes with information on priority global markets, thus facilitating the international activities of smes.
in writing. - this report covers 23 million smes in the eu, which is 99% of all enterprises, employing some 75 million people. concrete support should be continued and expanded. the start-up and business-friendly environment in europe should be promoted. the report was to be welcomed, particularly in times of crisis, in the sense of the growth opportunities.
in writing. - i support the commission's efforts to start negotiations with the us on a comprehensive trade agreement as soon as possible. however, there are still some delicate issues on the table which require a general solution. the differences in opinion on genetically modified organisms are particularly important. we have a duty to protect our citizens and our farmers from health risks. so it must be possible to decide for oneself whether to have genetically modified seeds or not.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very disappointed, commissioner, that you have again failed to give any concrete information as to when such a proposal should be tabled. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year, and the council will be able to adopt it in the course of the year. i think that is a very important warning sign. the experiences that have been reported are not intoxicating either. there are fewer successes than announced, but more hits than expected. something's not right here! the new model was announced for this year, but we still see that there is no added value in this regulation, partly because there are different implementations in the member states and because vague legal concepts open the door to abuse of this regulation. the future of citizens' rights is also decided on this question, madam commissioner. please put this amendment to the vote!
in writing. it is very welcome that the commission has come to the view that the 2005 directive needs to be amended. the criticisms from the public concerned with the protection of personal data are clearly more convincing than the ritual invocation of the claim, which is not in line with reality, that this would improve the security situation. the retention directive is an example of bad legislation, detached from national needs, disproportionate and undermining citizens' trust in the rule of law. it is high time to correct this mistake. mrs malmström should start the amendment immediately. i am sure that she has the necessary sensitivity to what is important here, since she voted against the directive when she was a member of the european parliament.
the committee on petitions' opinion was drawn up by mr. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. first of all, i would like to thank mrs bastos for her excellent report. i would like to make the point on behalf of my colleague mr busuttil, on behalf of the committee on petitions. petitions to the european parliament are a yardstick for the practical functioning of the internal market. in this context, it is also worth noting that 2013 will be a year in which citizens' rights will be significantly strengthened. there are problems with the non-recognition of professional qualifications, with uncertainties about consumer rights, with the transfer of social security entitlements and the like. another measure to overcome what i believe is the crucial information deficit of the population would be to bring together the various services and information services of the european union. i would like to congratulate all of us on the 20th anniversary of the single market and i hope that this important work for the future of europe will be developed in a strong way!
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. - mr president, i have to say something. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the single market is basically a wonderful project, especially for employees. since the creation of the single market in 1993, 2.77 million jobs were created in the first 15 years alone, i.e. before the crisis, representing an increase of 1.8% in total employment. if we look closely, there's a lot of shadows, but basically, it's a success. the single market has an impact on people's normal, practical lives and is therefore a tremendously positive and important instrument. but where there's a lot of light, there's a lot of shadow. jacques delors built the internal market on the principles of competition, but also solidarity and cooperation. much of that has been lost in recent years. i would therefore like to remind you once again of the importance of equating social rights and the social model with fundamental economic freedoms, and i ask you to take this into account in all your efforts. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
question for the commissioner: the commission is not i would like to ask mrs regner what you think the trade unions could do to combat youth unemployment in spain and portugal, for example. demonstrations will be too little. what active policy could the single market provide in this area?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i am now struggling to tell you what unions can do in this sense to create jobs. but what they can do is to be active in developing models - such as dual employment in austria - and to contribute constructive ideas about what training can be. they do. of course, they should do the same in spain.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is no doubt that the single market has brought some considerable benefits to people's daily lives. this ranges from a wider choice of products to the opportunity to practise and work in other member states. nevertheless, 62% of eu citizens believe that the single market only benefits large companies, and 52% believe that the single market contributes to worsening working conditions. the citizens' scepticism is not accidental: some attempts to deepen the internal market are misguided, as in the field of public procurement. there is a real risk that companies from other member states will not respect the collective agreements. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. all i have to do is think about that unfortunate light bulb dictation. if the commission, in its single market act ii, wants to improve the mobility of workers and businesses, we must also tackle the abuse of freedom of movement - for example, the pseudo-self-employed from the east in the construction industry, who work in austria and germany as wage slaves. the opening of the labour market in bulgaria and romania calls for particular caution. the somewhat arbitrary romanian citizenship policy has led to hundreds of thousands of moldovans, but also ukrainians and russians, entering europe with romanian passports. that's good for big business, bad for domestic labor. the single market can certainly do a great deal, but it certainly cannot be the ultimate answer to the economic crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we've heard so many cheers that it might be worthwhile to make a little self-critical appeal to modesty on this anniversary. in view of the unemployment rates in the various member states, which are sometimes higher than 20% on average - i.e. more than one in five is unemployed or, in the case of young people, even more than half - we should be a little self-critical and self-effacing in some respects. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. now certain countries even have a need to keep their young academics and young professionals in the country. so liberalization would be the wrong signal. i would also like to ask you to consider whether it is really worthwhile to further liberalize the financial services sector, which is already completely out of whack. we should therefore consider whether we should not, so to speak, put the whole financial system under new control, which in the past has in any case meant that entire countries could not be plundered as they are now.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is very nice that we are celebrating 20 years of the single market this year and 20 years of european citizenship next year. the single market and citizens are one and the same. it was also good that we changed the name of the committee from 'internal market and justice' to 'internal market and consumer protection'. the internal market can only function if we can really live within the internal market the four freedoms of movement of persons, goods, services and capital and have them regulated and controlled in a european manner. there is no successful single market without internationally competitive small and mediumsized enterprises. they are the heart of the single market and they are the engine of jobs in the european union. we all face two areas of daily concern: one is where barriers still exist everywhere, and the other is how inconsistent - or even non-existent - eu law is in many countries. we have to turn both screws. the single market is not complete in the financial services and transport sectors. it is important that we make further progress in the areas of transport, vocational qualifications, the digital single market, public procurement, banking and the internationalisation of smes! (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, communication is the basis for creating new jobs. the european union has set standards with the roaming regulation, not only standards in the internal market, but it is also now setting international standards because communication also needs standards, standards and technical legislation, and this has been supported and enforced by the european parliament accordingly. the connecting europe facility in particular is another step towards entering the high-speed area and thus making communications affordable. affordable communications are also the basis for a successful single market strategy. the frequency regulation and the framework for auctioning and allocation of frequencies will therefore have to play a corresponding role in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the single market is undoubtedly a great achievement where it works and when it works. the second package on the internal market which we have now received also contains many positive proposals. i would, however, like to encourage some amendments. the first concerns transport and traffic. in the european union we are now going to implement the transeuropean networks, to build railway corridors. what is lacking is the harmonization of the power modes, track gauges and safety features which are absolutely necessary to make the most of the opportunities offered by the internal market in rail transport. the second relates to railway passengers. it is necessary to introduce a uniform electronic ticketing system, just as we are used to with air tickets. the third relates to the purchase of cars. if you buy a car and move to another country, you face a bureaucratic hurdle race, which also involves a lot of costs. the same goes for buying a used car. i would ask the commission to come up with constructive proposals to make the internal market really work!
i have to say, madam president, 500 million consumers, 21 million businesses, €2.8 trillion of trade within the eu and €1.5 trillion worldwide 20 years of the single market. i think these figures speak for themselves. the single market brings many benefits to citizens. i'll make one point: they can and should work wherever they want. mobility is one of the greatest achievements, but it is still too unknown. our citizens must be much better informed, because in times of growing economic crisis, the willingness to move and to establish crossborder business and service links in some countries could alleviate many of the problems facing young people in particular. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. twenty years after the birth of the free internal market, the principles of free movement of goods, persons, capital and services are often only in principle. and these approaches have already been sufficient to plunge europe into a serious crisis. the current banking and euro-economic crisis is the result of the liberalization of the capital market envisaged by the maastricht treaty under the slogan that the market will control itself. and yet the eu is not aware that its strength lies in the coexistence of different economic cultures. instead, the focus is on bending and breaking, on centralism and equalization so-called harmonisation . the call for a new unbundling, for more competition in the railway sector, is already being heard. because that's the only way to improve quality and lower prices. but the native european has had a very different experience as a consumer... the delusion of centralisation and the exaggeration of the brussels bureaucracy must come to an end, as must the equalization which is the co-causator of the current crisis. the proposed banking supervision is welcome in principle, but it will not be able to make a substantial contribution to ending the euro crisis, because it requires a total reform of monetary union.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, when i studied in vienna i did not have the possibility of erasmus at that time and i still deplore the fact that i did not have the possibility. normally young people in europe have the possibility – still have the possibility – but even that is now endangered for some of them. in europe we speak about the necessity for excellence, for high qualifications, of knowing other languages – and the erasmus programme is in danger. in europe all the leaders speak about the necessity of mobility. we cannot stick to one place in one country in one city alone – and some of our nation states are endangering mobility. and we speak in europe about the necessity of having a european identify in addition to the national or regional identity – and again, some of our leaders are endangering the european identity. it is also very interesting to see that some of the countries where most of the students want to enter the erasmus programme are trying to cut the budget, and that is absolutely unacceptable. i fully agree with what the commissioner said. thank you very much for your engagement on that. thank you, mr mavroyiannis. you are a very gentle and kind person, but sometimes i think you have to be less kind to your colleagues in the other governments because what they are doing is absolutely impossible. as my colleague said, they are endangering one of the biggest flagships of european unification, of european identity, of coming together, of being the most qualified europe – and then we endanger this programme. this is absolutely unacceptable, especially at a time when euroscepticism is growing. we say to the young people who want to be real europeans: sorry, we do not have the money. i think again you sometimes have to be very tough with your colleagues and tell them that the unanimous opinion here in this parliament is that we need erasmus and we need enough financing for our young people, because this is about europe, not about national ambitions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as doris pack has already defined in the first place, we have a concern to declare that dramatic and unacceptable effects have been conceivable by saving in the wrong place - in the field of education, in the field of qualifications throughout europe! it is clear that this is the most powerful weapon against crisis unemployment and, of course, for europe's competitiveness. a key element of european success policy - as mr scurria rightly said - which is as valuable as the single market and the euro, is being put at risk here. this is unacceptable! it should never happen again - and i hope for a good outcome - that we have to hear the commission make dubious statements such as the press release of 15 october, in which it states that the securing of erasmus funding by the end of the year cannot be guaranteed because the council is failing to meet its responsibilities. i appeal to the council, together with all the members of this house, to act professionally and with responsibility for the future generation.
in writing. during my long-term work as a professor at an austrian university, i have witnessed the success story of erasmus: how students return from their erasmus stays with more openness to the world, self-confidence, motivation and a positive image of europe. the business sector, in turn, emphasises experience abroad as an important qualification for it. erasmus thus makes an important contribution also in the context of the single market. erasmus is one of the most visible and popular programmes of the european union, reaching 99% of its capacity this year. it is therefore necessary to provide additional funding for the programme. students who start their erasmus stay in the coming months need to get clarity as soon as possible. we can't create confusion right now. erasmus 2013 should therefore not start with a budget gap. we cannot therefore afford to damage this beacon of european education and employment policy at this time. education is the best recipe for youth unemployment.
in writing. - as a result of droughts in various regions, prices for agricultural commodities such as soybeans and maize are currently 30% higher than last year, and for wheat almost 50% higher. in addition, there is the boost to agribusiness in the eastern european countries and the growing demand for feed in the emerging countries. in response, farmers are increasing their purchases of seed. it is precisely because of the different requirements that the import of seeds from third countries can cause problems, for example with regard to the requirements for genetic engineering. the present proposal does not deal with this very well, and i cannot therefore agree with it.
in writing. − the principle of equal access to coastal waters applies to the common fisheries policy (cfp), and this has been in force for over 40 years. however, this regulation shall apply only until 31 december 2012. the current proposal aims to extend the period until 31 december 2014. the 12 nautical mile zone is of particular importance, not only for safety reasons but also for the sake of the sovereign environmental law and possible criminal prosecution. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to extend the current regime for access to the 12-nautical-mile zone (current proposal: until 31 december 2014). the 12-nautical-mile zone has clearly proved to be efficient, irrespective of the final form of the reformed cfp, which is a strong argument for its extension. the present proposal for a two-year extension of the scheme should be accepted. the more comprehensive cfp reform package should also include greater national control of coastal fisheries.
in writing. − european farmers produce the highest quality goods. these quality products are internationally protected by geographical indications of origin. famous austrian examples are the styrian pumpkin seed oil, the marchfeld asparagus or the tyrolean bacon. the eu and moldova shall agree on mutual recognition for the protection of geographical indications of origin by agreeing to this agreement. i agreed to that.
in writing. − this agreement aims at the mutual protection of geographical indications in order to improve the conditions for bilateral trade between the european union and the republic of moldova, to promote quality in the food chain and to enhance the benefits for sustainable rural development. the proposed agreement is the result of bilateral negotiations (18 april 2011). the eu pursued two objectives in these negotiations: firstly, to extend the protection and application of the geographical indications regime and, secondly, to intervene at the source of possible abuses of eu geographical indications. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. − in principle, there is no objection to common concepts of consular protection. however, as all past austerity measures in this area have been linked to visa scandals, some of which have not been fully resolved or the necessary consequences have not been drawn, there are still risk gaps. that is why i have rejected this report.
in writing. - the current banking and euro-economic crisis has brought us precisely the liberalisation of the capital market envisaged by the maastricht treaty under the slogan that the market will control itself. and yet the eu is not aware that its strength lies in the coexistence of different economic cultures. instead, the focus is on bending and breaking, on centralism and equalization so-called harmonisation . now, to see in a co-author of the current crisis an opportunity to end it can prove dangerous. although some parts of the eu's internal market are welcome, i cannot agree with the report as a whole for the reasons i have mentioned.
in writing. - the report deals with the 'almost' completed single market, which was established in 1992 with the aim of creating closer links between citizens and member states, an area without frontiers in which people, goods and capital can move freely. the internal market is an essential instrument for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and for sustainable, smart and inclusive growth. however, unfortunately, at the 20th anniversary, there are still gaps between expectations and reality (perception of the rights that are due) lack of information (citizens do not know or understand their rights sufficiently and do not know where to get information or help) lack of application of the law (dividing between the eu legal framework and the way it is applied) legal vacuum (in certain areas, the eu legal framework determines, not the citizen). there are several recommendations to address these shortcomings, with a focus on citizens.
in writing. - i have agreed to the amendment of the regulation because it is of fundamental importance to ensure legal certainty for businesses. the large support within parliament shows how important this dossier seems to be. the amendment was adopted by 652 votes to 13.
in writing. − japan is not only an important trading partner of the eu, it is also a technology leader and exports many essential high-tech components. on the other hand, after fukushima, many commodities, such as rice, are taxed above the limit. this is also to be taken into account in the context of the rising tensions between japan and china, which are also raising concerns about a possible trade war. japanese exports fell in september of this year by the most since the tsunami disaster. trade with the crisis-hit euro states and with china, which has been the target of boycotts, has fallen particularly sharply. it is questionable whether now is the right time to start the long-planned negotiations on a free trade agreement. the text also emphasizes that the advantages and disadvantages have not yet been weighed. i therefore voted against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - the reaction of michael cashman is a violation of the right of every member of the european parliament to exercise his free mandate and to exercise his conscience. no professing catholic can agree to a policy that results in the killing of an unborn human being. the report on 'reproductive and sexual health and related rights (rshr) ' envisages the killing of unborn human beings through abortion as a tool of family planning and population control in developing countries and is thus financially and politically supported by the eu. it is not only the right of every freely elected member of the european parliament to oppose such legislation, but it is also the duty of a catholic to vote against it. on the other hand, mr cashman has no right, even in the context of freedom of expression, to attack members in an unjustifiable way for their free voting behaviour. if mr cashman spoke for his whole group, it would mean that the s&d group denies the fundamental right to life on the question of the protection of the unborn and, moreover, in relation to the criticised voting behaviour of those members who voted against the rsgr, infringes the fundamental rights to freedom of expression, freedom of belief and conscience and the free democratic exercise of political office. the charges against michael cashman are categorically denied!
question for the commissioner: the commission is not mr president, i have followed your remarks with interest. i have a question: why, despite the rapporteur's earlier very different views, did your group agree to this compromise on commissions instead of ensuring that the costs are actually passed on to the final consumer? you have done a disservice to the cause you represent. how could such an ominous majority be reached?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. roger that. and by that i mean please stop! we have not just heard "so spoke zarathustra", but we have heard "so spoke the city of london". no, the opposite is true and important: mifid i, mifid ii are abstract concepts, they can be made concrete. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we now have mr barnier and, hopefully, a majority of the house saying: not like that! in the meantime, something happened. is it 2 trillion, 3 trillion euros that have been lost in connection with the possibilities of under-regulation? yes, mifid ii is a great step forward - no question about it - but the gaps remain. in the otc sector it has been mentioned there are still far too many opportunities to evade into the barely regulated trading venues contrary to what the g20 has stipulated: every actor, every financial venue should be controllable accordingly we have not achieved this. the commission's proposal is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. what interests are behind this? but of course the basic problem of the incentive system remains. if you reward the wrong activities in the economic context, you get what we got. the commission has already taken a number of steps in this direction, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the priorities of the european semester for 2012 include differentiated and growth-friendly fiscal consolidation to reduce public debt, combating unemployment and modernising public administration to relieve public budgets. in the face of the deepening structural crisis, it is more important than ever that all efforts be made to put households in order, to create sustainable jobs and to invest accordingly in education and training. i also mention that we are in danger of not reaching the 2020 targets simply because the member states' target is too low and the measures taken have led to almost no progress in the areas of energy efficiency and employment. i therefore appeal to the member states: the european semester was created, among other things, to put the budget in order. please stick to it and put the focus on the citizens!
in writing. the vote in the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg tomorrow will put a major brake on speculative high-frequency trading and on food - another cornerstone in european regulation of financial markets after the crisis. we, the european parliament, are the driving force behind ensuring that irresponsible speculation and high-frequency trading are regulated. mifid ii ensures that orders must be valid for at least half a second and cannot be cancelled or modified during that time. i am particularly in favour of the restrictions that the european parliament is deciding to impose on speculation on the commodity markets. the european securities and markets authority (esma) will be able to decide as a regulator which market participants may buy which raw materials and in what quantities. this is an important first step in reducing the speculation in raw materials which drives up food prices and in countering sharp fluctuations in the market. the proposals to revise the markets in financial instruments directive and regulation (mifid and mifir) thus bring about uniform trading rules to protect investors, thus ensuring the stability of financial markets better than before. that is why i will vote for stronger regulation and the inclusion of over-the-counter transactions.
the commission has already done so. first of all, i would like to point out that this eu-donetsk strategy is the result of an austrian-romanian initiative. austria has a lot to offer here, based on its historical experience. i do not want to go into the four pillars you have mentioned, commissioner, but i would like to take the problem areas of road and air transport infrastructure out of the communication paper. there's a lot to do. i have looked at what is being proposed in the context of eu policy, and i see only europe 2020. this sector, which is of particular importance for the region, would be an ideal field of action for the new connecting europe programme. i believe that the commission must also give particular attention to this connecting europe programme in its evaluation, in its macroeconomic review, particularly in the field of road, rail and air transport connections, because there are also funds for this. it is here that they really make sense, and there is a lot that can be gained from these funds and from this programme for this area and also for the whole region and thus for the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that we should understand and develop the danube region primarily as an economic axis, and then we will know that investment is only meaningful and sustainable if an overall approach is developed, which includes projects coming from the transport sector, going into the energy sector, including industrial policy and of course also extending to tourism projects. but we can only succeed with the strategy if these projects are actually coordinated. i therefore propose that similar to the implementation of the core network corridors in the ten-t a coordinator be appointed and that the states be obliged to actually submit timetables and investment plans in order to be able to take a similarly targeted approach as should be the case for the core network corridors. i have a question to the commissioner on the extent to which he intends to link the realisation of the danube corridor, which is one of the ten core network corridors, with the development strategy of the danube spatial concept.
the commission has already done so. we have some reason to be positive about a year of the danube strategy today. a lot has happened . in this area, home to 115 million europeans, more than 275 projects have been launched. there is also very good cooperation at the administrative level, at the level of the member states concerned and at the level of the municipalities concerned. but where this danube strategy has not yet arrived is with the people, with the citizens. we have just held a conference on this subject in krems, lower austria, at the danube university, entitled 'the human being at the centre'. the task we have today is to develop this danube strategy further so that it is really supported by civil society. we need to make efforts to increase cohesion in the region and mutual understanding, and, most importantly, we need to develop the danube. we need it because we only use about 10% of this transport route. but we can only do this if we really take account of nature and the biological household.
mr president, commissioner, ombudsman, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the report by mrs mazzoni shows that we should thank the ombudsman for his work in the service of european citizens, including for the very good cooperation with the european parliament, in particular with the committee on petitions. i would like to give a very specific example that has come to my attention: in addition to the approximately 1800 petitions that are pending, we have a special report on complaints against the commission to deal with in the committee on petitions. i found that in the last 16 years, there have been only 18 applications of this very special instrument. this is a testament to the correctness and objectivity with which the ombudsman and his team deal with this work. i would like to point out two aspects of this which i have noticed in my experience. one concerns the information and communication work that can be further strengthened for the ombudsman's concerns. here it seems to me that the 27% of complaints handled that actually fall within its remit, but conversely, means that almost three quarters do not and therefore increased information work is useful. i would like to draw attention to an activity carried out in austria by the volksanwalts on public television. the second point on which i would be glad to see progress in the next report is the regulation on general administrative procedures. i would be glad if binding minimum standards were to be introduced throughout the eu administration. i know the ombudsman is very active here. i wish us and especially him continued success in his work.
the commission has already done so. thank you very much for your impressive report. i would like to join mrs jaakonsaari in pointing out a project which has been running in my home state of lower austria since 1989 between the town of baranowice in belarus and the municipality of stockerau: a town partnership which helps to ensure that local people also have the opportunity to get in touch with austrians, that there is an exchange through school projects, that children from baranowice come to stockerau and get to know a different environment here. it also helps to discuss the situation in belarus in our communities. where once personal contacts have been established, there is also a much greater personal interest in how the people you have come to know live. we celebrated the 1000th anniversary of stockerau in stockerau and these partner cities were also present. they're boiling. it's really a close relationship. such examples of human politics help to make democracy felt even in countries that really fall far short of our democratic standards.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his clear words. i would also like to follow up on what my colleagues have already said and congratulate georgian citizens on a really democratic election and a peaceful transition of power. this is the first time that a change of government has been carried out by vote in the southern caucasus since the end of the soviet union, so this was really a good step forward. some things do still need to be improved in the electoral law, but i also hope that both sides, president saakashvili and prime minister ivanishvili, will work in a concerted effort seeking consensus and compromise in the time of cohabitation. i would like to remind them that cooperation and not confrontation is one of the principles of the european union. there are, however, two issues which i would like to mention which i think it is important to tackle quickly and thoroughly in the short term. firstly, georgia needs a stringent and effective law on party financing and also a law on potential and actual conflicts of interest, to draw a clear line of separation between private and public interests for persons holding office. i think it is essential in a democracy that you know where parties get money from, and how campaigning is done. this needs to be transparent and a law on this matter needs to be enacted as soon as possible in the parliament. a second thing: i would like to remind ourselves and everyone else who is listening about the shocking images of torture in georgian prisons which we saw before the elections. it is necessary to hold a thorough investigation into that and to undertake an in-depth reform of the penitentiary system in georgia so citizens in georgia can enjoy life without violation of human rights.
i have to say, madam president, apart from a few incidents, the parliamentary elections in georgia were generally free and democratic. now, nine years after the bloodless rose revolution of 2003, saakashvili's monopoly on power has been broken. the hero of the revolution of that time is presented with this election to account for the fact that he has turned into an authoritarian leader in the course of his campaign against corruption. the fact that there is a strong opposition for the first time is undoubtedly a democratic achievement. we shall soon see if and how cooperation works. it is to be hoped that the reforms to be undertaken, such as the reform of the legal system, will be addressed and, above all, that the current pro-western course of seeking membership of nato and the european union will be maintained or not lose momentum. i believe that much will depend on whether ivanishvili, the new georgian hope-bearer for democracy and prosperity, lives up to the hopes that have been placed in him. the new georgian dream party will certainly have to show how it deals with the abuse of power by the former rose revolutionaries. finally, it is to be hoped that the political purges which are undoubtedly about to take place will not, like in ukraine, throw the most fundamental principles of the rule of law and democracy overboard.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the united arab emirates stands for oil, sheikhs, sunshine and luxury, but it also stands for less beautiful and less modern things, such as torture, stoning, beheading, public whipping and the oppression of women. add to this the terrible working conditions in the booming construction industry, especially for the guest workers. every year, many migrant workers in this region die because of the lack of safety standards. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. he was lucky, he could have been sentenced to death. the reason: he was accused of causing the death of a patient. it is surprising that three expert opinions which exonerated adelsmayr were not taken into account. it is also interesting that the authority's opinion in the dubai translation was suddenly reduced from 25 to 6 pages and the main 19 pages that were supposed to exonerate adelsmayr were suddenly missing from the file. this confirms the human rights reports that there is an obvious system of nepotism in this country and that evidence is being trampled underfoot. we need not only clear words, but clear actions: we recommend that our citizens do not visit these countries because of the lack of legal certainty and do not book any more in the emirates until the situation changes!
the commission has already done so. there has been a whole series of literary treatments in recent years of the situation of women, and especially the situation of girls, in pakistan. people who have been observing the situation for many years, especially in rural areas, have described, on the basis of individual experiences, how girls are excluded from education, but how young women are also forced out of the labour market when they marry, how it is still taken for granted, despite a different legal situation, that women are dependent on older brothers or on their husbands. we have a situation in the pakistani parliament where the proportion of women is 30%, and a great deal of progress has already been made. but the laws that are passed there must also be implemented and lived by. i see here, in the case of malala yousafzai, a very terrible cry that we must provide this help and this support. it has to be up to us to advance human rights, civil rights in pakistan. we must take note of the steps already taken at parliamentary level, but above all we must monitor their implementation.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not this summer i was in cambodia at the invitation of the khmer anti-poverty party. i have seen firsthand how social inequality and rampant corruption contribute to poverty and misery, and how the unrepaired past weighs on people's souls. cambodia, which is something of an extension of our western consumer society, deserves our attention and our special solidarity. only when democratic conditions and the rule of law are restored will the country have a perspective. i have seen firsthand how much political initiatives are administratively hampered, freedom of speech and assembly is virtually non-existent and political activity is associated with great personal dangers. the forthcoming elections, which must be closely observed by europe, can only be recognized as democratic if there is a minimum of freedom of speech and assembly before the elections. it is the only way to give candidates for political office a fair chance.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unfortunately, the security forces in cambodia continue to use excessive force against protesters, whether they are environmentalists, human rights activists or peaceful protesters. the case of heng chantha, a 14-year-old girl who was shot dead by security forces in may 2012, is particularly sad. as a result, there was not even an investigation into the circumstances of the crime. the region is therefore a place of oppression, and there is no rule of law. the expropriations are proof of this. sugar barons and corporations are taking over the land of cambodian smallholders to grow sugar. one reason for this is the enormous profits from duty-free exports to europe. we must act, not just talk. no more open trade policy as long as forced evictions are carried out in this country!
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this report aims to reintroduce more regulation in the financial markets. we have seen in recent years that deregulation and liberalisation have led to crises, to a surge in debt in countries that we now have to fight with enormous budgetary resources. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial markets are not affected by the economic crisis. the financial institutions have begun to plunder whole countries and to drive them into the debt trap. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. i would like to mention goldman sachs, a financial institution which has caused a disaster in greece, for example, which is currently suffocating the whole of the european union. it is high time that we brought the entire financial industry back under clear regulation. it is high time we re-established rules, and it has been shown here that it was wrong to liberalize too early and too much.
i would ask all those who wish to speak to speak, as did the last speaker, about their voting behaviour, because these are explanations of vote and not a continuation of the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have supported this resolution as a whole because it is designed to be fairer towards russia, which i welcome, particularly in the energy sector or in the area of public procurement. but i have rejected all the amendments, and i have done so in good conscience. i would like to appeal again to this house to treat russia fairly. that also means not interfering in an unacceptable way in internal russian affairs. i am not aware of any country which is more sensitive to outside interference, particularly from the european institutions, than russia. russia is not a country of minors! the russians are able to organise their own judiciary and do not necessarily need advice from the european union. there are some countries in our own area where we should be giving better advice and where we should be improving the justice system. russia is not the priority country!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against this resolution, not because i do not recognise the elections in georgia and the developments in georgia, but because it is precisely this resolution and the elections that are being used to support and promote georgia's accession to nato under paragraphs 18 and 19. this parliament is not a nato body. how do we manage to get nato's domestic affairs and nato negotiations through this parliament? this is exactly the opposite policy, and it also shows the contradiction in this house, that on the one hand we are concluding a wto agreement with russia and on the other trying to put nato in russia's backyard. that is not the task of this parliament! i say this as a citizen of a neutral country. this parliament must not be allowed to be misused as a nato organ!
in writing. − the fact that the ombudsman's mandate has been extended to cover possible maladministration in the context of the common foreign and security policy is to be welcomed. the eu institutions still do not seem to be ensured not only to comply with their legal obligations, but to be service-oriented and to ensure that individuals in the population are treated fairly and can fully exercise their rights. the increasing number of complaints also reflects the european ombudsman's ability to deal with complaints and irregularities within the eu, although not every complaint is automatically an irregularity. the ombudsman's office certainly has room for expansion, including in terms of awareness. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
in writing. - instead of finally tackling the real problems of the eurozone, the union has stuck its head in the sand and tried to stay afloat with marketing strategies. the european semester has long since been overtaken by reality, although it should have been the one to ensure greater financial transparency. instead of taking the european semester further down the path of centralisation and transferring powers to brussels, we must prevent debt from being created in the first place. the priority should be to avoid at all costs that the economically successful countries of the eurozone are dragged into the abyss by the debt crisis. the european semester does not contain any sensible solutions in this respect, so i voted against it.
in writing. − russia is an important economic partner for the european union and also of paramount importance for europe's energy supply. that is why relations with moscow must be re-established. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but that it is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. the european union is currently perceived in moscow as an appendage of the united states and is therefore viewed with some scepticism. the present resolution would have been a way of taking steps in this direction. i have not voted because that has not been done.
in writing. - the elections in belarus are clearly not in line with current international standards, although improvements have been made, as stated in the resolution. many election observers also reported that the elections were conducted correctly. this, of course, must not be allowed to obscure the fact that some opposition groups were not allowed to vote at all. however, the total exclusion of the country by the eu, as called for in the resolution, is not the way to bring about change in the country. the only thing that will be achieved is further unification and a turn towards russia, which is the exact opposite of what the eu hopes for. i therefore abstained.
in writing. − the resolution rightly notes that the recent parliamentary elections in georgia on 1 october 2012 were mostly free and fair and met internationally recognised standards. the international election observation mission has nevertheless raised a number of points which must now be improved by the georgian authorities. it is important that the eu continues to support and accompany georgia in its efforts to strengthen its democratic institutions. the eu should not interfere in internal georgian conflicts, such as the separation of the provinces of abkhazia and south ossetia from the motherland, and should not make demands and conditions to russia. these problems must be solved locally. solutions cannot be imposed from outside. the resolution fails to take account of the need for the eu to be independent, and i therefore abstained.
the explanations of vote are closed.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.45 p.m.)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on employment and social affairs. mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking the two years of negotiations that we have had, in particular the persistent and patient rapporteur, mr zwiefka, for his way of conducting the negotiations, but also the presidency, which is unfortunately not here at the moment, the cypriot presidency, and the danish and polish presidencies before that, which have worked very constructively. the revolution announced is not the result; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters within the eu was already one of the best-functioning model regulations in the european internal market before this revision. i would like to highlight some positive points which are particularly important for my group, the s&ds. first, there are clear rules on access to justice and the enforcement of individual rights, which is important for citizens, businesses and the functioning of the internal market as a whole. the abolition of the exequatur procedure was, of course, the main task we accomplished, and despite initial doubts we have now succeeded in achieving this abolition. the extension of the regulation to third countries will be decided, albeit not as intended by the european commission in all cases, but at least in consumer matters and in matters concerning individual employment contracts, in order to protect the weaker party. this is very important. the negotiations on this regulation have been going on since the green paper of 2009, that is, since the beginning of the legislative period, and the new version has been under discussion for at least two years. it is very strange to me that the commission has presented the revision as a new version. the new wording is intended, in my view, to simplify the procedure for non-controversial matters and to speed up the procedures for adapting legislative texts. the brussels i is clearly not an uncontroversial issue, which resulted in the procedure being neither simple nor short. the only reason i can see why the commission has chosen the new version is to restrict the legislative power of parliament, but also of the council. i think that is very worrying from a democratic point of view. i therefore ask that the interinstitutional agreement with the commission be revised in this respect. it is not acceptable for the executive to restrict legislation in this way, even if it is proposing profound changes to the regulation. and now the most important thing for me, which comes to the end. as regards the future of the brussels i regulation, as the author of the opinion of the commission's employment committee, i recommend that a jurisdiction for industrial action be introduced to avoid the delay of proceedings resulting from strikes. moreover, it would finally bring the procedural law into line with the law materially applicable. the rome ii regulation governs the law applicable to cross-border claims. this provides that the law of industrial action is to be applied in cases of damage in connection with strikes. and why should this not apply to jurisdiction? i ask the commission to take this into account. we in the european parliament will certainly take care of that. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. mr president, mr stoyanov, you are a man of great integrity. it is true that i have lost the enthusiasm of being a member of the s&d. i have only mentioned once, however, - at least in my memory - that i am a social democrat, which i think is great and which i very much like to be. it is true that the position of the committee on employment has been primarily concerned with industrial action, and perhaps i have been a little too slow. i have, however, very well reproduced this position.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues who have worked with me on this for two years. the council has already taken a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the council will take a decision on it. but in the end, one important insight has emerged: crossborder action - and this is becoming increasingly so in the european union - requires rules that are comprehensible, clear and designed in such a way that they do not put the weaker party in an untenable situation from the outset. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this brings us to a major problem: mutual recognition. now, each of the 27 member states represented in this house believes that its legal system, and only its legal system, is the best in the world. but if we are to work together, we must also learn to accept each other's decisions, documents, etc. this has always been accompanied by great mistrust. of course, in every case, everyone will be able to find an example where his own right is better than another. but that does not mean that it is a consistent principle. that is why i think this is a good and important step. i think it is important that we have empowered the weaker party, and i think it is important that we have given consumers, who are also buying across borders today, new opportunities to get their rights faster, better and clearer. thank you for the revision clause. we shall see whether these questions can be extended further, but as i said, this is covered by a review clause. i think that what we are presenting today and what we are going to decide on is an important step. it will not be the last, particularly in these areas of law, but it will help us to make the opportunities offered by the european union, which it also creates for its citizens, more visible to the citizens.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the declaration of consent to the accession of eight third countries to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction by klaus-heiner lehne, luigi berlinguer, eva lichtenberger, francesco enrico speroni, alexandra thein and tadeusz zwiefka, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o-000159/2012 b7-0367/2012).
a writer. mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am speaking for the legal affairs committee, now also in the direction of mr stoyanov. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is of particular importance in that it allows children who have been wrongfully removed to be returned immediately to their last place of residence. the commission rightly considers that the decision on the accession of the eight countries, namely morocco, russia, andorra, seychelles, albania, gabon, singapore and armenia, is the exclusive competence of the european union. the european court of justice has also clarified that matters which clearly fall within the union's competence within the eu are also within the union's competence in external relations. in this case, the brussels iia regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and in matters of parental responsibility clearly gives us competence at union level. it is clear to everyone that the union has exclusive external competence in matters of international child abduction. in this respect, the legal affairs committee's message is primarily directed at the council. the council must end its blockade on this important matter without delay. the european parliament should also be consulted. we as members of parliament, elected by the people, are constantly confronted with these problems. who, if not the european parliament, is concerned with the concerns of the citizens? the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights also sees no reason why these countries should not join. the best interests of the child must always come first. national vanities are totally inappropriate in these cases. the commission is therefore asked why the council can block such an important decision. the accession of these eight countries is of the utmost importance. the importance of accession is shown by many tragic cases reported in the media, including one of alleged child abduction in the country i know best, my native austria. this case, although not concerned with relations with a third country, illustrates the family tragedies that can occur. little oliver weilharter is currently with his father in denmark. the mother and grandparents in austria are worried that oliver will not be allowed to return to austria. the main issues are two judgments of different wording from denmark and austria concerning the wrongful removal of the child. the hague convention on child abduction is not applicable in this case because the danish courts do not consider the father's conduct to be child abduction. however, the same problem arises with the brussels iia regulation, as this regulation is not binding on denmark. in particular, with regard to the candidate countries of russia and morocco, many eu citizens have family ties to these countries. similar cases can be avoided and combated by the accession of these countries. the example of oliver therefore shows that the accession of the eight countries is essential for the well-being of children.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the council's policy of delay is particularly reprehensible in this respect. kidnapping is a traumatic experience, for the children in any case, and often for the parents involved. i think everyone will agree that we must at least improve the legal possibilities so that the child can return as soon as possible to his place of origin and habitual residence. the hague convention is one such mechanism that protects and defends the rights of the child in such cases and provides assistance in bilateral cases of child abduction. we now have two partners in the queue: russia and morocco, where there are always dramatic cases and where there are always great difficulties in reaching agreements. we could make this problem easier for those involved tomorrow if the council - and let us be clear here - did not play a game of power which i do not approve of on a completely inappropriate field. the council does not want the european parliament to have a say in this. the council is not in agreement on certain issues, long negotiations - particularly with russia, for example - are not producing results, and we cannot give the help we could if the hague convention were applicable to these countries. it would be very interesting to know how many children and partners have already been harmed by these delays on the part of the council. i would appeal to the council to look for another example of blocking. this is about the fate of children! i would like to ask you to allow us to continue the procedure properly, with the participation of the european parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs reding for her report. we are in very close contact with the case, i believe, of the young oliver weilharter, an austrian child who was abducted to denmark. i have to say that child abduction - whether it happens outside or inside the european union - is the worst crime. if we sit here and watch, and stand by and do nothing, we are wronging these children. i therefore urge that we take action here at international level, but also, of course, at european level. how can it work at international level if we cannot do it at european level?
motions for resolutions tabled under rule 115 (1) of the rules of procedure will be published at a later date. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr jan mulder, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors (com ((2010) 0473 c7-0279/2010 2010/0246 cod)) (a7-0269/2012).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
in writing. paracelsus himself stated that dose makes the venom the dose makes the poison. the same applies to the starting materials from which explosives can be made. when dispensing substances such as hydrogen peroxide which are available in pharmacies, the indicated use should be checked with particular care by making appropriate enquiries. the internet still contains instructions on how to make explosives, which refer to pharmacies as sources of information. it is not just the case that young people pay for their curiosity about explosives with serious injuries. in addition, chemicals obtained from pharmacies have been found by the police in the past, which have been used to produce illegal explosives for criminal and/or terrorist purposes. again, it depends on the dose. when one considers how easily pharmacies can be duped into producing illicit drugs by a large number of people who acquire small amounts of the drug in an unsuspected manner - let alone smuggling - it becomes clear that it is impossible to close all loopholes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the next item is the one-minute explanations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask you to give me a brief opportunity to comment on my own behalf. in april 2011, i filed a complaint against an austrian mep on suspicion of misuse of €1.5 million of taxpayers' money. this mep in turn accused me of hacking his computer. the european parliament then lifted my immunity on 23 october, but ten days later the prosecutor's office closed the investigation. that means that all the allegations made by the honourable member have been dismissed and the investigation has been completely closed down, and i would like to mention that briefly here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the most important european union neighbourhood policy initiative, in my view, is undoubtedly the maintenance of the european perspective, or accession perspective, for the western balkan states, and this cannot be stressed enough. the recent reactions of the croatian public, and also of the serbian public, to the acquittal of the croatian general, make it clear that the emotions, the antagonistic emotions among the peoples of the western balkans, are still very strong and dangerous. that is why this prospect of accession, this european perspective, is particularly important for this region. we must, however, seek to resolve open problems, such as those arising in the case of kosovo, in a way that is acceptable to the peoples and states involved. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. although cash and on-account purchases remain popular in europe, mobile payments are gaining in importance thanks to new technologies. that is why the credit and mobile phone industries have developed a number of systems to make wallets and cheque cards obsolete. security concerns are the main reason for this scepticism, and rightly so, since banking data and passwords are the most popular targets of cybercriminals. especially in the context of android smartphones, it is easy to spy on data. there's enough shady business going on with the phone bill. it is no wonder that, by means of various tricks, rogue companies are completely ignoring consumer protection in this area. so with the rise of mobile payments, the eu not only needs to provide security in the form of better consumer protection, but i think it also needs to provide the appropriate data protection.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. on the subject: before the crisis, it was common practice to simply bypass banking regulations. financial activities have increasingly been shifted to less regulated venues - namely shadow banking. in total, we have 1,400 such institutions, so a huge number of such institutions have gone bankrupt. none of them were systemically relevant; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this selective regulation of banks must be stopped if we want to close the loopholes for financial market jugglers in the future, and we want to do so, and we want to do so urgently. many shadow banks received state aid, but operate without state control - all the more reason to regulate them. the central register mentioned by mr el khadraoui is supposed to be the basis for this. but we also need to have ceilings on debt capital and liquidity buffers and corresponding own funds requirements.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a father of several children in critical age, i am aware of the opportunities, but also the dangers that the internet, social media, the digital world presents for adolescents and for children. on the one hand, of course, we have to see and acknowledge that this is a completely new form of communication that is here to offer itself to a new generation of beginners, on the other hand, we have to be really critical about the dangers. we must not forget that it is often a sham world in which young people live here, that the leveling of communication takes place at the most trivial level and that children are often at risk of actually developing something like addictive behaviour. there's abuse, of course, and there's bullying and all kinds of other dangers. that's why i think there really should be something like self-regulation of the vendors, maybe also something like age restrictions or limits on the quantities you can consume. and of course, we must appeal to those in charge, especially the parents, to really pay attention here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the child are protected.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the protection of children in the digital world must be a central policy concern, given that the internet has become a second living room for many children and young people. the report is therefore an important step forward in that it identifies the main problems and proposes generally sound solutions. i think that paragraph 24 of the report is particularly important, which states that any such measure must comply with the principles of the rule of law and legal certainty, take account of the rights of end-users and be compatible with existing laws and legal practice, as well as with the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to circumvent the normal legislative process. self-justice is always problematic, and so is this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that the protection of children is a fundamental need in our society. the protection of children in the digital world is also part of this. i would like to stress, however, that while children deserve protection, parents also have a responsibility. the generation of parents who themselves have had only limited digital education and training in their childhood should now tell their children what is good and right? maybe they should get a little more education on this point themselves, and maybe we should tell the parent generation how things could be better. for example, i think 88 minutes online for a nine-year-old is completely irresponsible and inappropriate. the internet also means education and self-responsibility in the family and in school.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the past, when a child was bullied at school, you could say to him: 'don't be upset, tomorrow it'll all be forgotten.' in our digital world, that's not so easy. when bullies attack you online, especially on social media, it is hard to escape. it draws more circles and then usually remains stored forever. this bullying is an extension of real-life bullying and thus contributes to the spread of the phenomenon. it also requires more awareness on the part of parents and educators to teach young people to be responsible in the digital world. in the case of cybercrime, the protection of minors should be the responsibility of the authorities. here, cooperation at european level is important and useful, because the internet knows no borders.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. consumer credit is a particular problem. this market segment is booming. in 2010, eu citizens had consumer credit debts of €600 billion. so, be careful. the lowest monthly installments or the lowest interest rate are not the only factors that determine the value of a consumer loan, but above all the total cost of a loan. in order to be able to assess whether a loan from the bank is cheaper, customers need information on the effective interest rate, fees and costs of the compulsory credit default insurance. however, particularly in the case of online loans, basic information is often missing. this needs to be regulated at european level, as online loans are offered across borders. and consumers need to be able to really compare the different offers of financial services providers.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. with the social entrepreneurship initiative, europe is proving very proactive in shaping its social policy, especially in turbulent times, to meet demographic changes, the challenges of labour markets and the growing need for social services, in the context of the white and green economy, that is, within the framework of a broader social concept that includes the environment in addition to the traditional areas of health, care, education and care. the european initiative for the accelerated development of social entrepreneurship was confirmed in the social affairs committee of the european parliament in a very constructive cooperation. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, the secretariat of the committee and the commission, and my parliamentary assistant for this. the great interest shown by the european parliament in this initiative is also shown by the more than 280 amendments and some 30 compromise amendments which ultimately led to the report being supported by a large majority in the social affairs committee. the report's main points are as follows: we are promoting the future demand for innovative products and services through a new innovative climate in social entrepreneurship, especially in the interest of young people who will find new, attractive and meaningful career opportunities here. this is a great potential. and what is more important today? we want to strengthen and promote all the social enterprises which have already been successful, i.e. associations, associations, cooperatives, mutual societies, social foundations and, as never before, all those who, with personal initiative, including private initiative, i.e. as entrepreneurs alone or as a team in the group as small and medium-sized enterprises, should take advantage of the growing number of market opportunities to meet the need for social services and achieve social objectives with innovative commitment. yes, our report clearly states that social entrepreneurship is part of the eco-social market economy and the european single market, and therefore has the same rights as all other forms of enterprise. and one condition is most important for social entrepreneurship: the demonstrated social impact of the company's activity in society - whether it is in the care of school children of working mothers, in the care of dementia patients, in the counselling for the transition to environmental technologies or in a restaurant that employs young unemployed people. the global social business summit ten days ago in vienna has already been based on a range of thousands of different examples. the definitions of social entrepreneurship, by the way, go back to the eu programme for social change and innovation and are compatible with other reports. social entrepreneurship has proved to be crisisproof. we want greater access to finance, including the new social investment fund, which will attract new investors and partners with a labelling system and a quality label, and improved access to public procurement. we believe that funding must be available for all eu programmes. we want a framework for social entrepreneurship that can be used throughout europe and i hope that in the communication we will find massive support in the commission. i hope to see a lot of support at tomorrow's plenary session. social entrepreneurship has enormous potential to make a significant contribution to solving social problems as a new and powerful instrument, thus ensuring that europe remains the social benchmark in the world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission, and you in particular, commissioner barnier, are very proactive, very committed, when it comes to social entrepreneurship. that is good, that is welcome. the commission's proposal is not a good one, but i would like to make one critical point: the basic idea of opening up social entrepreneurship to the financial market is not a good one. the commission is assuming that companies are making profits. in a field where the providers or companies are predominantly oriented towards social objectives and the reinvestment of profits, the european fund is not the appropriate instrument. there are already various options for private investors to invest in long-term development projects for the benefit of the public: development banks, public private partnerships, to name just two examples. social entrepreneurship must continue to be organised in a spirit of solidarity and democracy.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not - i'm not sure. i think that your country is making a lot of efforts right now and is doing very well. however, my question to you is this: if you again talk about how little has been done for growth, and if you look at the decades in which portugal has received billions and billions of euros from net contributors, would you say that these have been entirely well invested - if i think of parallel motorways - or that there have been a lot of misallocations?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe, ridden by the european council and the commission, has galloped and is now actually over the precipice, and what it lacks is the underground support of the european peoples. we are in a very dramatic situation where we collectively know that we need a strong europe, but more and more citizens are turning away from this europe of the council and the commission out of understandable fear - the reasons have been mentioned by previous speakers - because they do not see themselves represented and because they actually see the european union as more of a banking union than a democratic union. and that is the root of all evil. what they are doing with these new texts, which the council is now going to adopt, is repairing a cauldron which has not yet exploded but is in danger of exploding. the creation of a union without democracy will not work, this is what ardent pro-europeans like myself have been saying for many years. but we do that in part in our paper, which was presented by mrs thyssen. it is welcome that various control instruments are being put in place, that we are supporting this, but where democratic legitimacy is at stake, our action falls far short. we should follow the example of mr häfner and others. yes, we need a convent. yes, we do need a full-fledged european parliament and yes, we do need referendums. and you should have that courage while it's not too late, because we can still win majorities. but i fear that the cauldron will burst before there is any real reform of this europe.
question for the commissioner: i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a satisfactory answer. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. given that in the two decades of the single market, inequality in the european union has increased tenfold in many countries - the difference between the lowest and the highest incomes - can you really stand by your position and not see that the street is now telling us very clearly that we need more equality and that therefore the approach of further and further deregulation is exactly the wrong one?
in writing. the current crisis has led to a fundamental debate on the future of europe. that's the only good part. the report by the four presidents is an inadequate response to this. as a consequence of the unilateral composition of the panel, there is reason to fear that this will only prolong the problems of the past. the current economic union will be joined by a fiscal union and a banking union. it is to repair what cannot be repaired in this way. more of the same can have devastating consequences. europe is suffering from two main problems: too little growth and employment and a lack of confidence among its citizens. the only way out of this dilemma is for the economic union to become an economic and social union. the report recognizes this problem but fails to define it clearly. we need the courage to ensure that the union as it stands today is sustained by a social pillar. this has been done far too hesitantly.
i have to say, madam president, i voted against this report. never have the european union and its institutions been so powerful, and never have both the european union and its institutions been so unpopular with the people of the individual member states. one of the reasons is also found in this report. i would like to give just a few examples of a whole range of reasons. the people were promised that it was not the citizens who would pay the price for this financial crisis, but the private sector. the commission is proposing the exact opposite: a new fiscal socialism. they are calling for a banking union. it's a manifestation of helplessness. instead of a citizens' union, we are now forming a banking union. the citizens are increasingly feeling that this union is no longer for the citizens but only for the banks. this is a new form of commission or council europe, which is completely detached from the citizen and is moving away from the citizen. this banking union only masks the problem that we are still unable to cope with the financial crisis. this banking union is outside the european legal order. it is based on a council decision which is in fact contrary to the esm treaty. i could give you a whole bar of examples like that. this report is simply to be rejected.
in writing. − the regulation aims to increase legal certainty for citizens and businesses. instead of the enforcement procedure, the judgment should be deemed to have been given by the courts of the member state of enforcement, with the possibility of a review of the judgment by the courts of the member state of origin in certain circumstances. it is important, particularly in crossborder court cases, that the right to a fair trial is not restricted in any way. however, this principle must not be reduced to a mere instrument of challenge. but this is no easy task. i have taken this into account in my voting behaviour.
in writing. − regulation no 44/2001 (along with its predecessor, the brussels convention) is one of the most successful eu legal acts. it laid the foundations for a european area of justice, increased legal certainty and predictability of decisions, and is used as a reference and a tool for other legal instruments. the recasting is of considerable importance. the agreement covers, among other things, the abolition of the exequatur procedure, the extension of the rules on jurisdiction of the regulation to third-country debtors, and jurisdiction and arbitration agreements. the committee on legal affairs welcomes the compromise reached with the council, which is in line with parliament's position on all important issues. the abolition of the exequatur procedure is an important step forward in terms of access to justice for citizens and businesses for all decisions in civil and commercial matters.
in writing. - there are still explosives manuals on the internet, which refer to pharmacies as a source of information. it is not just the case that young people pay for their curiosity about explosives with serious injuries. in addition, chemicals obtained from pharmacies have been found by the police in the past, which have been used to produce illegal explosives for criminal and/or terrorist purposes. it's impossible to plug all the loopholes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i voted in that direction.
in writing. − many people are not aware that handling fireworks can be extremely dangerous. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the internet has the right instructions for this. however, there is very little confidence that the processes described on the internet for the production of the relevant substances are correct, which in itself poses a great danger to the 'craftsman'. the dangers of explosives are therefore a highly sensitive subject which requires attention, and it is a matter of far more than the fight against terrorism, as the report calls for, but of a balanced and thorough duty of information for the public and not of interference with their privacy. i have weighed all these considerations and abstained from voting.
in writing. − the aim of this proposal is to reduce terrorist attacks and their effects by restricting public access to commonly used, legally used substances (and their mixtures), as these are also used in high concentrations to manufacture explosives. it also includes a reporting obligation for suspicious transactions. the proposal is addressed to wholesalers and retailers and to the member states.
in writing. − this regulation allows for derogations from the general provisions on the recruitment of eu staff in the context of croatia's accession to the eu. this is necessary because recruitment procedures must be open to all eu citizens, irrespective of their nationality, in accordance with the provisions on recruitment contained in the staff regulations. this was the case in 2004 and 2007. it concerns, among others, croatian staff for the language service as well as general administration officials and assistants. the commission proposal should be accepted without further ado, as the provisions are clear and uncontroversial and follow the pattern already applied in the context of the accessions of 2004 and 2007.
in writing. − a policy for the sustainable management of offshore oil and gas activities is urgently needed. the eu's planned action to address this situation includes a commission proposal for a regulation on the safety of offshore oil and gas exploration, exploitation and production, which is currently under consideration. however, it should be noted that the crossborder consequences of an accident in the mediterranean are likely to be more than limited to eu member states. the eu should therefore promote international cooperation to improve the safety and emergency capacity of offshore activities of all actors involved. the ratification of the offshore protocol would be a major step in this direction and at the same time provide an important lever to ensure good cooperation and long-term concrete efforts by all mediterranean states to achieve the highest level of safety for offshore activities. i therefore voted in favour of the
in writing. − the offshore protocol, adopted on 14 october 1994, is one of the protocols to the convention for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal areas of the mediterranean. the eu, all eu member states bordering the mediterranean sea and 14 other mediterranean countries are parties to the convention. the offshore protocol covers a wide range of exploration and exploitation activities in the mediterranean sea, including licensing requirements, disposal of abandoned or decommissioned installations, use and disposal of hazardous substances, liability and compensation issues and safety issues. the offshore protocol entered into force on 24 march 2011 after its ratification by the six contracting parties and has not yet been signed or ratified by the union. accession to the union shall require the consent of the european parliament. the accident could have far-reaching consequences for the economy and for sensitive ecosystems. a policy for the sustainable management of offshore oil and gas activities is urgently needed, including to protect the environment from pollution from the exploration and extraction of raw materials.
in writing. − the conclusion of bilateral fisheries agreements with third countries is an important element of the common fisheries policy. these agreements, in addition to the acquisition of fishing rights for eu vessels, commit the parties to a responsible and sustainable fisheries policy. greenland's economy is heavily dependent on fishing and the export of fishery products to the eu. in 2010, exports to eu markets amounted to eur 331 million, while imports from the eu were almost twice as high. the fisheries sector creates 6 500 jobs. this agreement is of great benefit to both parties and is important for cooperation and cooperation in the field of north atlantic fisheries resources.
in writing. the amendment to directive 93/109/ec concerns the exercise of the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament by citizens of the union residing in a member state of which they are not nationals. the report proposes to facilitate this, which is generally to be welcomed. however, a closer reading of the report reveals that the grounds for exclusion are being tightened up, since a decision by an administrative authority in an individual case can lead to the loss of the right to vote. since the means of redress, of bringing proceedings and of legal protection are generally less well equipped for the person concerned under administrative law than under civil law, this extension of the grounds for exclusion, which can now also cover minor offences, and thus also the amendment of the directive, must be rejected.
in writing. - the passive right to vote in elections to the european parliament for citizens of the union residing in another member state. the intention of the parliament was that candidates could run in more than one constituency in the same election. one of the important changes compared with the earlier drafts is that the directive now covers only passive voting rights. in summary, the process of electing a member of the european parliament has been simplified. in order for the minor but meaningful changes to enter into force in time for the 2014 elections, the simplified procedure must be applied and approved.
in writing. - banks in the euro area are becoming more cautious in their lending. standards for home loans were tightened again in the last quarter, while consumer credit was made somewhat less stringent. there is always a dispute over bank fees that should not be charged. many banks still charge excessive processing fees for consumer credit, since the processing of the credit application is not a banking service for the customer, but is carried out in the bank's own interest, as is the credit check. these problems were not addressed in the review report. i therefore abstained.
in writing. - unfortunately, distrust of financial markets is growing and banks are lending less and less worldwide. very few financial institutions offer crossborder consumer credit at all. however, politicians cannot be completely exempted from responsibility, as differences in trust in eu institutions are an important criterion for cross-border banking activities in the euro area in general. the commission's 2011 review of 562 consumer credit websites mentioned in the report is also worth considering. the result of this review: 46% of the websites checked did not include mandatory information in the advertisement, 43% did not include clear information on the total cost, the duration of the contract and some of the costs associated with the loan in the contract offer, and 20% were misleading in their presentation of the costs. in the current implementation phase, national authorities are contacting the companies and asking them to make corrections. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
in writing. − the consumer credit directive has two objectives: a high level of consumer protection and the strengthening of the internal market for consumer credit. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the commission should monitor implementation and push for correct application in the member states. then, a period of adjustment to new regulations should be given in order to gain experience. the commission should also be able to make recommendations to the council on the basis of the recommendations of the european parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted.
in writing. − the economic crisis has not only had an impact on the labour market but also on social matters throughout europe. people who have lost their jobs find it much harder to re-enter the workforce than in the years before the crisis. the risk of longterm unemployment is therefore increasing, which in turn makes it increasingly difficult to reintegrate citizens into the labour market. in addition, there is a relatively high youth unemployment rate, which is mainly due to the fact that according to the 2010 surveys, 14% of all young people looking for a job are school dropouts and therefore lack qualifications. the report did not receive my vote because i do not agree with the rapporteur that pan-european action is the appropriate means. i think that the member states are called upon to take appropriate measures, which are appropriate to the infrastructure, social and educational systems of each country.
in writing. − the current economic and financial crisis has long-term and profound effects on the european economy, employment, public finances and social investment in europe. the crisis has put pressure on welfare systems in many countries and has led to a sharp fall in revenues from pension, unemployment and health systems. high longterm unemployment rates will further exacerbate this trend. unfortunately, most of the current responses to the crisis lack a social and employment dimension. social investment is intended to contribute as an important component of european economic and employment policy and to be an eu response to the crisis. a coordinated approach to social investment at eu level is urgently needed. so i agree with that.
in writing. - i voted for the bové report because the high-quality food produced in europe under strict environmental, animal welfare and health conditions needs a strong future-oriented marketing. in addition to the current support for information initiatives, such as the school milk programme, i am advocating more ambitious measures to promote agricultural products. these help the agricultural sector to achieve its full potential in terms of economic growth, job creation and rural regeneration. the strengthening of promotion measures will also increase the competitiveness of european products on the world market, as the european model of food production based on diversity, quality, traditional production methods and geographical authenticity is increasingly in demand.
in writing. − to make the cap as efficient as possible, there are a number of market promotion instruments, such as support for operational programmes in the fruit and vegetables sector, support for the promotion of wine in non-eu countries, school fruit and milk programmes, or support for market promotion measures by producer groups. all these measures are now being used to bridge food crises. i voted for the report because i agree with the rapporteur that a new policy of support should be defined. it is also essential to draw consumers' attention to european agricultural products.
in writing. the common agricultural policy (cap) has a wide range of market promotion instruments. in the past, promotion measures have been used to reduce agricultural surpluses and to bridge food crises. the policy of support should be more clearly defined and focused on financing projects that serve both main objectives.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the european union's role in the world of education. it appears that the right of succession has no adverse effect on the location of the art market and the level of turnover, or that there has been a systematic shift of trade away from the member states. the rapporteur also agrees that the european art market is under pressure in all price groups, both from auction houses and art dealers. i voted for the report.
in writing. − the secondary legislation directive has two objectives: to ensure that authors of works of fine art have a financial share in the success of their works and to harmonise the application of secondary legislation in the eu. the european art market must be strengthened and closer cooperation must be encouraged.
in writing. the report deals with the proposal for the adoption of harmonized rules for the construction of agricultural and forestry vehicles. the report aims to ensure the functioning of the internal market, road safety, safety at work and environmental protection. the commission proposal contributes to competitiveness by simplifying the existing type-approval legislation.
in writing. - it is mainly safety concerns that make people sceptical. and rightly so, since bank details and passwords are prime targets for cybercriminals. especially in the context of android smartphones, or the trend of downloading free and untested apps, it is easy to spy on data. and there's enough shady business going on with the phone bill. with the rise of mobile payments, the eu not only needs to ensure security in the form of better consumer protection, but also has to ensure appropriate data protection for mobile payment processes. i voted in favour of this report because it is moving in the right direction.
in writing. − card, internet and mobile payments in general still have considerable differences in card usage within the eu. common technical and security standards could facilitate general market access, further promote the use of card payments and make card payments more attractive as a safer and more efficient option for consumers. the development of common technical standards within the eu, for example in card payment systems, should be accompanied by a simultaneous improvement in common safety standards, which would be in the interests of consumers. as a member of the imco consumer committee, i am very interested in the 'safe side' of consumers' payments over the internet and therefore i am voting in favour of the report, which mainly addresses the security criteria that need to be improved within the eu.
in writing. − the possibilities of payment instruments are growing at european and also global level. there is a rapid development of new ways of paying via the internet and mobile devices. in order to ensure payment security, the development of technical standards should be encouraged; differences between domestic and foreign transfers should be minimised.
in writing. - the shadow banking system is essentially a system that exists alongside the traditional banking system and which is involved in the intermediation of loans. these are mainly hedge funds, money market funds, but also special purpose vehicles, i.e. institutions known for their risky business. the problem is that their transactions are not subject to financial market regulation. the annual report of the financial stability board states that shadow banks turned over $67 trillion (eur 52,6 trillion) in 2011. this has increased their turnover by eur 5 trillion compared to 2010. for its report, the fsb examined its 24 member states as well as chile. the 25 countries studied account for 90 percent of the world's capital. the fsb found that shadow banks accounted for 25% of all financial transactions last year. in 2007, the report said, the figure was 27 percent. the report has received my vote as i agree with the rapporteur that some of the companies and activities identified by the fsb as shadow banking have clear benefits for the regular economy and could promote economic growth. however, instruments should be created to ensure full transparency.
in writing. − as a result of the financial crisis (2007), the g20 introduced new regulatory measures to make the financial system more secure. since then, among other things, capital requirements for financial institutions have been tightened. despite these changes, a large part of credit intermediation is still not sufficiently supervised and regulated. shadow banking is carried out through companies or financial contracts that create a combination of banking-like functions but are outside the regulatory scope or are not subject to any regulatory regime. we must take action against shadow banking.
in writing. − the internet is increasingly becoming a gateway to another world. this is of course particularly attractive to children and young people. gaming platforms and social media sites are used heavily from the age of nine. but there are also many dangers lurking online, such as cyberbullying, which can have a drastic impact on the real lives of young people. in order to teach young people the proper use of the internet and its dangers, they need the information and instruction of adults such as parents or teachers. i abstained because i believe that the problems facing children and young people online are beyond the control of the authorities. there is no doubt that there must be clear definitions on the part of the state about the legality of various sites and actions, but the responsibility for the welfare of children still lies in the field of education.
in writing. − children and young people are spending more and more time online and are becoming more and more involved in media at an earlier age. surfing without protection and control carries risks such as massive privacy violations, health risks, addiction and addiction phenomena, etc. the protection of children must be ensured and the control of cybercrime must be ensured.
in writing. − a definition of social entrepreneurship: creating an 'ecosystem' to promote social enterprises as key players in the social economy and social innovation. innovative concepts and ideas are to be implemented and promoted and can contribute to social entrepreneurship in various ways through actions. innovation is a great opportunity, especially in times of crisis.
in writing. the report 'towards a genuine economic and monetary union' aims to further centralise and raise all issues relating to economic and monetary union at european level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the member states are not involved. in total disregard of the circumstances, it has been quite clear since may 2010 that a common monetary union between states with different economic orientations and strengths, different cultural views, especially as regards tax policy, is not useful. the apparently simple response of the eu establishment to call for more centralisation, always and everywhere, is therefore a complete disregard for the facts. there is one positive aspect to the report: in calling for 'necessary treaty changes ... to ensure legal certainty and democratic legitimacy', he confirms that the measures taken so far, bilateral loans to greece, efsf, esm and the ecb's bond-buying programme, were not covered by the eu treaty and are therefore illegal! the report is bad, it points in the wrong direction and it should therefore be rejected in all its aspects.
in writing. − the joint parliamentary assembly met twice in 2011 and was able to organise two fact-finding missions, one to timor-leste and the other to the fourth high-level forum on the effectiveness of development cooperation in busan, south korea. the quality of its work has enabled the jpa to establish itself as a major player in north-south cooperation. the assembly has played and continues to play a significant role in the progress of the negotiations on the economic partnership agreements (epas). the report is very informative and clear, which is why i voted in favour of it.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has already adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. firstly, a reference to the fact that the existing directives on environmental impact assessment, the mining waste directive, the seveso ii directive, the habitats directive, etc. are of course valid. but as the two commissioners have already pointed out, there are still problems in implementing or including the relevant factors in the annexes or in implementing the corresponding measures. the legal affairs committee has also pointed this out and called for - the commissioners have said they want to do this - that legal adjustments be made as soon as possible. let me conclude by saying something as a member of this house and not as the author of the opinion: a memorandum would be very useful, because then there would be time and opportunity to adapt the european union's legislation to this new technology and to take everything into account in a way that does not cause any corresponding damage in europe or outside europe in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are used in a sustainable manner. on the other hand, for all the euphoria about the shale gas boom, we must not forget some facts about our current situation: europe's reserves are not really comparable to those of the united states, they are deeper, and therefore would cost more to extract. this was one reason why the austrian petroleum authority, the ömv, decided not to drill for the first time in the wine district of lower austria, given the 130 million euro cost. in addition, the us can unlike europe promote in sparsely populated areas. for example, luxembourg has put its shale gas plans for the densely populated area of bettemburg ad acta. we must not forget that either. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. and it probably doesn't make sense to spend billions on water conservation and then put our groundwater at risk of contamination. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the future. so i think that, despite all the euphoria and despite our wish that shale gas will prove to be a great source of energy and an alternative for us europeans, we must get back to the facts. at the present time, shale gas extraction in europe is probably not really economically and ecologically viable, and we have to think very carefully about how we behave.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this debate now from this side of the house, getting excited about the exhibition out there, is a bit hypocritical. do you really think we're so stupid that it affects our voting behavior when there's an exhibition out there? if exhibitions are held here, our rules of procedure apply, and anyone who wants to exhibit can apply and must follow certain rules. what i find troubling is the dirty campaigning that is partly run by ngos. this is a concern because it is done behind closed doors. but if you cannot stand information events, you should not be a member of parliament. this communication must be possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we in europe are not the ones who determine what happens in the member states. i'm not a fan of hydrofracking and shale gas because i also see the big environmental concerns. it is not true, however, that we can now pretend to prohibit this, because it is not possible under article 194 of the treaty. our task should be to point out that there are problems and dangers and to urge the european commission in particular to comply with the european environmental standards for which we are responsible. then we have to look carefully at what is happening in the individual member states. if the groundwater balance or other environmental assets are threatened, we must urge the commission to take the member states to task. but to pretend that we are here deciding whether poland is going to exploit this shale gas or not does not correspond to reality. it is also important to look at the project in the long term. i also believe that the long-term costs are much higher than the short-term benefits. that is why i reject this technology, as do several member states. but, ladies and gentlemen, let us return to an objective debate and not pretend that the world is going to collapse because there is an exhibition going on outside! (the speaker agrees to answer two questions under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to two questions on the blue card procedure. the commission is not i'm not the one who approves these exhibitions. we have clear rules here about how an exhibition like this can be created. these rules must be observed. what i do not understand, claude turmes and mrs rivasi, is how such an important debate can devote so much time to such a detail. because none of us here are responsible for this exhibit. i'm all for transparency, but this is the wrong auditorium. missed the subject. that's it! you can go to the administration and get upset there, but we're not the ones who decide whether or not to have the exhibition out there. i'm all for transparency, too, so what's the problem?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would ask you to pay attention to the culture of debate! these aren't questions, these are co-auditions. it is unfair to colleagues who may still wish to speak on this important subject in the catch-the-eye. if your colleagues are already talking about a lot and have no discipline, please intervene so that it is at least fair for the other colleagues!
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has been very active in this field. we are talking today about an important issue for the future of energy. we know that shale gas is associated with drilling and that drilling is also used in connection with the use of geothermal energy. in this respect, shale gas is also an enabling technology for future geothermal projects. i believe that in the future, if we comply with all environmental regulations, we can ensure an additional, long-term strategic supply of energy from geothermal energy, particularly from the depths where shale gas is being worked today, and that this energy source can be used for generations and in a very sustainable way. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the gas coming to europe via pipelines is also given a green certificate, so that this gas is also tested in the same way to ensure that the same technological and environmental standards apply in countries outside europe. only when this is ensured can this gas be placed on a par with renewable energy sources. we should also look at the life cycle costs of the different energy sources, the environmental, social and all related costs. employment is also important. we have very high employment rates in the countries supplying energy to europe - i think this is very positive - as well as high value added in these countries. but we should not forget that new jobs must also be created in europe and that the energy sector could provide the conditions for this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'll be brief and stick to the facts. gas is expected to play a major role until at least 2035 due to the mandatory emission reductions. the decline in conventional gas production will make europe increasingly dependent on imports. and looking back to 2006, when russia literally turned off the gas to europe, we still get cold feet. so shale gas extraction would be another, albeit dangerous, option, when i think of water, the chemicals that are pumped into the ground. on a positive note, there is an interesting pilot project here by the university of montana leoben with the austrian petroleum administration, called clean fracking, where instead of chemicals, water, bauxite sand and starch are pumped into the earth. in other words, if we give responsible research time to develop opportunities, we are leading the way in europe in developing technology that is affordable but also environmentally friendly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission is not prepared to accept this proposal. i think three hours of intense discussion shows that this issue is still very controversial. i am very glad that with the report from the environment committee we have a report which takes account of the fears, the worries and the ignorance, also in wide areas of science, of how this shale gas extraction will affect the environment and health. we certainly need alternatives to the fossil fuels we use today. but i do not think that this can be a future fossil energy with the knowledge we have today. that means we have to invest in research, we have to give the shale gas project time. we're lucky that shale gas is locked in the earth, which means it doesn't escape, it's not a time window that we have to take advantage of. we must take into account the fears of the population. the commissioner said at the beginning that we have a very different population structure in europe, a very different population density. we need legislation that is very strict and that involves the public, i.e. environmental impact assessments, but also very clear sanctions if they are not respected. the quality of life is what we should be striving for here in europe, and it must not be sacrificed for short-term profits, which we do not know today how they will affect us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. experts have been warning for some time about an impending paradigm shift that european car manufacturers do not want to see. the automobile industry, which is one of the largest in the eu with annual sales of over 700 billion euros, is now in deep crisis, as we know. while mainly mass producers are struggling with the decline in sales, premium producers are experiencing declining profit margins. it is clear that maintaining production levels would only force the automobile industry into a vicious cycle of ruinous discount battles. the commission's plan to facilitate exports of european cars sounds good on paper, but it is not. however, it is doubtful that european car manufacturers will compete with chinese low-priced cars in the lower price segment. so this project will at best help premium manufacturers. one thing is clear: restructuring, such as we have seen recently in the united states, which has destroyed tens of thousands of jobs and cancelled pension entitlements, cannot be an undeclared objective of the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the current sharp economic downturn in the steel industry is undoubtedly primarily due to weaker demand from automotive customers in the debt-ridden countries of southern europe. the fact that the price of raw materials is constantly fluctuating and the cost of energy is rising at the same time is undoubtedly making it difficult for steel producers to cope, and this has now also affected the scrap industry. the eu steel industry also has the highest production costs in the world. it faces tough global competition from competitors outside europe who do not have to produce at such high costs for energy, the environment and carbon credits. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commission should take this into account in its plan to increase the price of co2 by reducing the quantity of allowances. if the european steel industry is talking about cutting a quarter of its capacity, then we must all be clear that this will cost up to a quarter of jobs in europe, that is to say about 100 000 jobs, if we are to adapt to longterm demand. if this does happen, we must all be aware that the union will have to provide a tremendous amount of aid to cushion the social and economic effects of this restructuring.
mr president, commissioner, representatives of the council! unlike my predecessor, i am a full supporter of the schengen information system for several reasons. firstly, we know that the schengen information system as a system of detection is a real success story for the security sector. it's been proven. secondly, it is also a success story in terms of the opening of internal borders and freedom of movement. schengen is the precondition for that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if we now look at the schengen information system ii, it is another step forward, a further development, firstly because biometric data is being added to this system, and secondly because there is a multiple and better data link - also in the interests of security - and because there is also more data security. overall, it's a very positive thing. so far it has looked as if schengen ii would indeed become a never-ending story. now it looks like we will hopefully be able to conclude and start the data transfer and by the middle of next year we will have sis ii fully in place in the interests of the security of the citizens of europe. i hope that the commission will do everything in its power to ensure that sis ii will be available as promised by the summer of next year. i would also like to thank carlos coelho, who has once again done an excellent job here in connection with schengen and has helped make schengen a security success for the citizens of europe.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. the implementation of community law should be of great interest to every member of parliament. why would you do that? we are making rules here in a sophisticated procedure, which at present is usually no more than a reading in parliament, but involves extensive discussions in the committees, taking account of various opinions, contacting the council, negotiating with the council, compromising and taking decisions in the european parliament, rules which apply or are intended to apply to the whole of the european union. this is the "should" we're talking about. when we see the effort that goes into creating these laws, these european regulations, and then have to observe how this eu law is either not implemented at all or is applied and controlled in a lax manner in some member states, then this must make us think a lot. unfortunately, the member states of the european union have not necessarily become more inclined in recent years to emphasize the commonalities in europe rather than the differences and the common rules of the game. i could give you a number of examples. the important thing in this process is that we point out the non-implementation, the wrong implementation, the poor implementation or the non-control. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we are now at a critical point, which the legal affairs committee and my report very clearly criticise. the commission has introduced a practice called the 'eu pilot' a few years ago, a pilot project whose main objective is to reduce the number of infringement procedures against member states. instead, an attempt is made to reach an agreement with the member state through informal means. there is nothing to object to for the time being. but if the complainant hears nothing from the commission but 'i have received your complaint' and then nothing for a long time, if he himself has no access to the knowledge of the progress of the non-implementation process he has called for, then something is wrong with the danish state. this is not how it's gonna work. we therefore call on the commission not to use soft law but to codify, in accordance with article 298 of the treaties, a regulated procedure which ultimately respects and takes seriously the rights of the complainant. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we must ensure that they are also informed of this when they are already involved in defending the rights of the parliament, the legislator at european level, against their own member state. i therefore appeal to the commission, as i did last year, to take decisive steps to improve the situation of the complainants once and for all.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, is not always in a pleasant position in this role. the commission's role in monitoring the application of eu law and its power to bring infringement proceedings against member states is not universally popular, but it is one of the commission's most important tasks. in 2010, we had an eu acquis of 8 400 regulations and 2 000 directives. by the end of 2010, there were 2 100 breaches reported. this is less than last year, but it is still far too high. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the tables should make it clear which part of a directive is transposed by which national text. after 10 years of blocking by the council, it is good that there is now agreement and that member states are submitting correlation tables in certain cases. this will make it easier in future to check whether a directive has been correctly transposed in the member state concerned. this report by mrs lichtenberger puts citizens at the centre of european legislation. it is important for citizens to have legal certainty and to know what their rights are in the internal market. if they are affected or involved and have brought the infringement to the attention of the public, for example by means of a petition, they must be able to understand the procedures and receive the information that is important to them. we members of parliament are constantly faced with problems which are based solely on the poor transposition of eu law into national law. this problem must be further reduced in the future.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. the commissioner has not been able to give me a satisfactory answer to that question. i think it is a very long time when a year may pass between the notification that the complaint has been received and a reply. i think that a complainant who makes the effort - and has usually already gone through the whole legal process in his own member state - deserves more. we need citizens who are committed to the european union. if they do it in that form, we should treat them accordingly. i think it is necessary and in the long term indispensable that we have a procedure here which is clearly formalised and which clearly regulates rights. this is a declaration of how the commission intends to deal with this. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but it won't always be enough. we see, for example, that in economic matters things go relatively smoothly when one company sues another for breaching eu law. but when it comes to environmental and similar issues, for example, where a great many citizens are demanding action by the european union, or social rights, it is a little more difficult. i think that these facts must also be taken into account. i hope that in my next report we will have a clear formalisation of the complainant's rights vis-à-vis the commission, which will be really clear and will be really well communicated. if we really want european law to be applied, after we have decided it together with so many procedures in the european parliament and in the council, then we must inform those who are concerned, who are really 'european', as well and as precisely as possible. i'm very concerned about that. i will be watching closely what has been going on here next time.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not 50 billion less, no, 80 billion less, 100 billion less, 200 billion less, and that's the way it is. who's bidding more, or who's bidding less? that is the motto of european governments today. it's a shameful competition down, there's no talking about homework. it is being done as if the european budget were a zero-sum game, which i give you, which i lose, and if you win, which i lose. as if there were not many companies from the net contributor countries in the cohesion countries where they invest, create jobs and also make money. it is not a zero-sum game, it is a common europe to which we must commit ourselves. it is a europe with responsibilities. the president has thankfully pointed out that we should not only talk about numbers but also about tasks. the president of the commission has done so. president barroso, keep up the fight! if you fight like this, we'll have you on our side, and then we'll be successful together. i have a few questions for the council: the commission has already taken a number of measures to help young people in the community. is that our signal to them? should we withdraw successful programmes such as erasmus? is this preparation for the necessary mobility? should the already small research budget be cut even further? is this our contribution to competitiveness? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. is that our contribution to growth? president barroso said: our international solidarity and above all our solidarity with our neighbours is mere talk? i would ask the foreign ministers to keep quiet next time if they are not prepared to follow their words with action and financial aid. we have not set ourselves high goals in development cooperation? we have said that europe can do this now, so we can cut the corresponding national budgets, and now we want to cut it at european level too. that is the policy currently being advocated. a policy of despondency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there must be three locations. and chief savings officer cameron was also desperate to have something in london. that's not thrift! why not get the money where you can get it, for example by fighting tax evasion and tax evasion more effectively? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. thrift should not be confused with despondency. we in the european parliament, my group and many of my colleagues, are prepared to save. but we also have the courage to commit ourselves to the tasks. we are not only asking for it, we are also going to do it. it's not always popular in the house, but we have the courage. and, dear members of the council, we too have the courage to say no to a lazy compromise. we are prepared to compromise, but not lazy compromises. the council must know this very clearly. i have a lot more to say about the budget, but let me mention one other matter which is of great concern to us and which is perhaps only indirectly related to the budget: the situation in gaza. i think we would all be willing to pay more money from our budgets to help the people of palestine, especially in gaza, to have a new future, to have a future at all. we all want israel to pursue a policy of giving the gaza strip more space and more leeway and to get it out of its grip. but i want to say very clearly and very consciously and clearly: hamas should finally stop shooting at civilians in israel. this is something that does not help the citizens of gaza, it does not bring peace, it does not give us europeans the opportunity to influence israel to finally make a different policy that helps the people of this region. we want to help the people, and here international help and the help of the european union are also necessary. every day we see new conflicts in our neighbourhood, and then the same heads of government and foreign ministers want to cut off the funds. but i say this very consciously: i hope that the egyptians have a chance to create peace, a peace in this region that so desperately needs peace. it would also be possible for europe to work with egypt to influence israel to pursue a policy which gives the people of palestine a chance. but hamas must stop shooting at civilians! we cannot tolerate this, and this should be a clear signal from this part-session of the european parliament! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not i have to say, madam deputy, if you had listened carefully, you would have understood what i said about israel and gaza. yes, we want to use our budget in a way that also keeps things standing. you have to say both, and i have said both very clearly. the war must end. we have spent too much budgetary resources in the past to rebuild things that have been destroyed. you have to say one thing, but you can't hide the other. and in this case, i also wanted to send a clear signal to hamas. we must work with egypt to ensure that there is peace in this region. this is important because our resources should not be wasted, but spent on the future of our region or our neighbourhood.
blue-card question. – mr callanan, sometimes there are differences in the voting behaviour in this house and in the house of commons, as in other parliaments. this is not unusual. but did you read mr miliband’s speech at the cbi? do you agree with mr miliband that it would be a catastrophe for britain to leave the european union? do you agree with mr miliband that it is a catastrophe permanently to threaten to leave the european union? do you agree with the cbi that it would be a catastrophe for britain to leave the european union? do you agree with the financial services in london that it would be a catastrophe for britain to leave the union? if you can agree and subscribe to what mr ed miliband said at the cbi conference, i take your criticisms seriously, but first you have to agree with ed miliband on the necessity for britain to stay in the european union and to be a constructive partner of the other partners in the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the way in which the debate on the multiannual financial framework and thus on the future policy of the european union is being conducted in some countries is very sad because it is based on half-truths and images of the enemy, because it leads to the weakening of the european union and is unworthy of a nobel peace prize. the european union is a project to overcome nationalism, and we are getting the nobel peace prize for having overcome nationalism, for having overcome national egoism, and for having put the responsibility of the whole on the parts. i therefore appeal to the heads of state and government to help make the debate more concrete, to put the tasks at the centre rather than the percentages, to assume community responsibility rather than operating with enemy images and to take responsibility for the future of this continent rather than using the veto stick. we want nothing more and nothing less than to be able to fulfil our promises, to achieve our objectives and to implement our community projects. we need money for that, not a dime more or less. it's about credibility. the citizens pay for every cut in spending, through fewer infrastructure projects, through less growth and employment, through less education and research, through less rural development. we have a global responsibility and we ask the council to give us the conditions to make it a success for the citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to begin not with mr farage but with a man who has much more responsibility and who is not here today, as he is not present at many other meetings. and this man has made a budget proposal and is not prepared to represent that budget proposal. why is mr van rompuy not here? i have nothing against mr mavroyiannis, he is a very patient and kind man, but mr van rompuy should be here, should be defending his budget and his budget cuts before us. that would be important! that would be an important debate! (applause from the centre) i am sure, mr president, that our views will be very well represented there, as they always are, but it would be good to have a direct confrontation. the second and last point i want to make is that i know that many heads of state and government are now spreading the rumour that a failure to reach agreement at the summit is a crisis for europe. and i say that an agreement on bad terms is the crisis for europe! a budget that cannot fulfil its tasks is the crisis for europe! a budget which we cannot approve would be a crisis for europe! the european parliament has already said that it will not be able to vote on the report. the crisis arises when they agree on a wrong basis, on the basis of which we cannot fulfil our tasks. i can already see the danger - and i would like to support you again, mr president, in your statements to the council - that some countries will be satisfied by agricultural funds and others by cohesion funds and that there will then be no room for growth and reform in the european budget. the danger is that all the countries and heads of government who are advocating an efficient budget, a growth budget, better spending, will be ignored in their concerns and it will be reduced to less spending. we cannot accept that! this is not a line that europe is good at. we must reject it and then we must say clearly that such a budget will not find the support of the majority of this parliament! (applause from the centre)
in writing. european governments want to pay even less one after the other this is quite understandable given the current financial situation of many member states; but when our ministers make new commitments, they want/have to be fulfilled. we are part of the european union, at least we declared that by joining. more than 90% of the eu budget goes back to our citizens. it is therefore incomprehensible to the countless unemployed and erasmus students that they cannot now get any money! how can we advocate for 2020 targets without actually being able to meet them? what about lifelong learning? what will happen to a credible fight against poverty? too many people are affected by the abuses; the fact is that empty words are too few and useless our citizens need our actions urgently!
in writing. − it is high time that a positive solution is found for the 2012 supplementary budget. some member states are not at all solution-oriented. finally, it is a question of implementing programmes which have already been approved and now need to be financed. these are projects to create jobs and growth, to promote education and research, projects that invest in our young people, such as the erasmus programme. it undermines the credibility of europe when students are left to tremble at the promises of scholarships they have already made. here, it takes a clear commitment to continue one of the eu's most successful programmes that has enabled almost three million young people to study abroad over the last 25 years . the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the budget for the financial year 2013 and that the council should adopt a decision on the budget for the financial year 2013. the behaviour of some member states is incomprehensible, especially in the context of the fact that well over 90% of eu funds are already flowing back to the member states and have a major leverage effect. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
in writing. - italy has suffered extensive damage from a major earthquake - extensive damage to buildings, infrastructure, industrial facilities, agriculture and important cultural heritage sites. the damage must be repaired as soon as possible and the population must be allowed to go about their daily lives as normal. it is only too understandable that the eu solidarity fund should be used.
in writing. − following the conclusion of the 2007 negotiations under article xxviii of the gatt 1994 poultry agreement, the eu has seen a massive increase in imports of prepared poultry. for years, foreign exporters benefited from a gap in the level of protection in the eu by reducing the proportion of poultrymeat or offal in poultry preparations to below 57% and thus securing a better tariff position. there is a risk that similar substitution effects could occur in the future under other tariff headings and in relation to other types of prepared poultry. the massive increase in imports of processed poultry has had a serious negative impact on poultry processing businesses in europe. the increase in the level of the definitive duty for the main importers thailand and brazil is therefore an important measure to protect domestic companies. i do not agree, however, that the countries concerned should instead be given substantial shares in the opening of new tariff quotas. for years, these countries have benefited from a loophole in eu law, harming european businesses. they have had an unjustified competitive advantage and therefore do not need concessions. especially when europe is in crisis and the eu needs viable businesses in europe to sustain growth and jobs at home. i refrained from doing so.
in writing. − the sis is the most important instrument for the security of the schengen area, which is considered the backbone of a europe without borders and of the area of freedom, security and justice. sis ii allows the entry of new data (such as biometric data), new types of data and new functionalities, thus increasing security and enabling a more intelligent use of information by linking alerts. the changeover is due to start in january 2013.
in writing. − the impact of the extraction of shale gas and other unconventional hydrocarbons have a strong influence on the global energy market; though, the same economic success the us had cannot be foreseen for europe. at the same time, and in my view of utmost importance, are the protection and safety of humans and our environment. the environmental consequences with regard to e.g. chemical substances in drinking water and toxic substances have to be considered. i strongly believe that we should learn from the us's experiences and knowledge - and incorporate those in our findings. studies of risks and environmental impact have been done, but there were no fundamental findings from the scientific point of view. as long as the safety and health of the people and the environment are not guaranteed, i cannot vote in favour of exploring shale gas-resources.
in writing. − supply, efficiency, savings and resources of energy are all of utmost importance from the economical and political point of view. under no circumstances, we must ever forget our citizens and their safety. health, security and protection of the environment are equally important. the highest environmental and safety standard, as well as a stable and well defined legal framework and public information transparency are necessary. there is still some work to be done in order to provide the proper and necessary information regarding the possible risks.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is simply that we have committed ourselves to carrying out certain programmes. we have approved them, we have controlled them, now it is a question of paying them. you'll be paid for sure, the only question is when. if we do not agree on the 2012 budget, this will be carried over to the 2013 budget, if we do not agree on the ceilings, this will be the basis and the twelfths will allow us to make these payments easily - again, however, on a proposal from the commission, with a two-thirds majority in the council and with the consent of the european parliament. it is extremely important to show the european public that european programmes actually generate added value. it is precisely in times of crisis, when budget deficits are present, that we need a positive economic life, and it is precisely for this reason that it is important to find agreement here, especially on those programmes which create new jobs and enable us to grow accordingly.
mr president, commissioner, the presidency of the council! i would like to thank the colleagues who drew up this resolution. i think we have had a very fruitful discussion on this subject in the committee on the environment and this resolution reflects very well what we think about this in the european parliament. it is also good that europe is taking the lead here, and connie hedegaard in particular is fighting very hard internationally for these objectives. but we must also remind our member states that a common approach is very important if we are to achieve these ambitious goals. however, i must remind you that climate action is a global task and we must also face the reality that europe is now responsible for only about 10% of global emissions. it is our historical fault that we have contributed to the present problem, in large measure, because of the development of early industrialization here in europe and, of course, in america. this leadership is therefore justified, but we must also ensure that europe remains an attractive business location. it's a fact that our factories operate with the lowest carbon emissions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. i would also ask you, commissioner, to make a very ambitious push, particularly in the field of air transport, to ensure that this international agreement actually comes into being. you said in committee you'd stop the clocks. that's good! we have said that we will accept this for one year, but it must also be clear that something must be done after that, because otherwise we will have to put our european rules into effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, maria eleni koppa’s report affirms enlargement and accession, which are at the core and the heart of this european union. as others have said before, many of us would not be here without enlargement. annemarie neyts-uyttebroeck and others would be sitting here among very few. so this is the important part of this enlargement report and i would like to thank maria eleni koppa for the good work and the good cooperation she has done, and also thank commissioner füle, to support him in the efforts he is making. enlargement needs many things. i can just mention a few. it means visa liberalisation, freedom to travel for people, the fight against corruption and it also means involving civil society. this is essential. we ask the commission and council to start developing an arbitration mechanism to resolve bilateral and multilateral disputes. as rapporteur for kosovo, i would like to ask fellow meps to vote tomorrow in favour of deleting the footnote on kosovo in paragraph 28, following in line with what this parliament has been doing since kosovo declared independence in 2008: supporting the independence of kosovo.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rapporteur seems to see a lot through rose-tinted glasses, especially when i look at it from the point of view of the copenhagen criteria. i do not see any positive developments in turkey, for example. freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of religion and women's rights open questions with no solution in sight. and according to this report, each state should resolve its disputes with its neighbours before joining, especially if they concern territorial issues. i wonder what the solution to the cyprus problem is. and we, the eu, are still funding all this! this year alone we have paid 860 million euros in so-called pre-accession aid to turkey. the dramatic situation on the syrian border also shows us the additional dangers that turkey's accession would bring. when the european coal and steel community was created in 1952 - exactly 60 years ago - its founders wanted to secure lasting peace in europe. we simply have to take note that with the accession of turkey - and we see it very clearly in the present situation - as a border state with syria, as a front state in the middle east conflict, we are bringing warlike conflicts into the heart of the union.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by liisa jaakonsaari, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the negotiation of a new enhanced eu-kazakhstan partnership and cooperation agreement (2012/2153 ((ini)) (a7-0355/2012).
ladies and gentlemen, i must point out that we should have adjourned the sitting at 8 p.m. we're 45 minutes late in total. i would therefore ask that all speeches be as brief as possible and i would ask for your understanding that at the end of this item we will have to do without a catch-the-eye procedure today.
we shall see how we proceed with the debate and whether we keep to the timetable, and then at the end of the debate i shall make a final decision.
i have been asked not to drop the 'catch-the-eye' procedure, but i will now give the opportunity to speak to some of the members on the list, provided that we are ready by 9 p.m. catch the eye
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also have a few comments on the shark problem: the rapporteur rightly explains in the report that fining should be rejected on social, economic and moral grounds. but your attempt to defend the exception for the removal of fins on board does not seem to me to be very comprehensible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. only a clear ban on the removal of shark fins, as proposed by the commission, can remedy this and really protect the animals better. the washington convention on the conservation of species will also be important for shark conservation. if the european union succeeds in overcoming the japanese-oriented or organized barrier minority there, i believe that a major step towards shark protection will have been taken. it is also essential to start with the consumer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen in the community are not caught by the fishermen in the united states. the signal from beijing is also encouraging, with a member of parliament advocating that sharks should no longer be served at official banquets. after all, 95% of shark fins are consumed in china. clear rules in europe will also enable the eu to make a strong and convincing case for a ban on finning at international level.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think we're going in circles. every year we hear about similar error rates. every year we hear that no positive declaration of reliability can be given in the same area. each year, we regret to see that commission president barroso has failed to achieve the objective he set out in january 2005. we're only moving in millimeter increments. the problem is that the eu budget is to some extent the achilles' heel of the european union. it is also the source of so many unnecessary quarrels. this is very much in evidence in brussels today and here in the house. there is a massive need for fundamental action on the revenue and expenditure side of the reform of the european budget. on the expenditure side this has already been mentioned it is important that member states finally take responsibility for the error rate in the management of funds on the one hand, but also in the recovery of funds on the other. on the other hand, it is clear from the revenue side that we should have the long-term objective of finally abolishing national eu contributions and replacing them with important instruments such as the financial transaction tax. this would put an end to unnecessary disputes about the eu budget and, above all, to debates about discounts and discounts on discounts. i think it would be important!
in writing. it is shameful that the european court of auditors has failed to deliver a positive verdict on the budgetary management of eu funds for the 18th time. the biggest errors were again in the largest blocks of expenditure: agriculture and cohesion. once again, the european court of auditors has revealed the blind spots of eu cohesion policy. a lot of funding went past its intended purpose. the court of auditors' report is not a glorious record for the commissioner for regional policy, dr johannes hahn. i would have expected, as many austrians do, that hahn would have corrected these unpleasant conditions instead of making the error rate worse: in 2011, less than one in five payments made to the cohesion fund was correct, compared with "only" one in four the previous year! in addition, there are historic highs in non-waste funds, even though some member states receive their projects entirely from the eu! the eu needs efficient investment, especially in difficult economic times. but turning the money-cock is not enough. the commissioner should, particularly in the case of greece, beware of this creed. a lot of money is going down the wrong channels there for lack of structural reforms; hahn himself admitted that billions of euros were not reaching their funding goal because of the incompetence of the greek authorities!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i should like to take this opportunity, at the beginning of my speech and at the end of this dossier, to thank those who have made sure that this omnibus ii report has become a report which was easily discussed and voted on in the committee on foreign trade and which, i hope, will now also be voted on in the european parliament without any problems. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, the secretariat of the committee, but also the secretariat of our socialist group, which has always given us excellent support, and especially the person responsible in my office. such activities are burdensome, and i think that one should really say thank you for them. the treaty of lisbon has made trade policy a policy in which the european parliament has a decisive say, and we can now see the benefits that this european parliament's say actually brings to trade policy. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. the omnibus i and omnibus ii reports have ensured that what was previously decided by comitology is now adopted in the form of delegated and implementing acts. the first omnibus dealt with implementing acts, the second, my report, with delegated acts. we worked very hard to get a good result. what happened now? we were actually going to negotiate with the council to get this done quickly. the council does nothing! the council is not here! the bank is empty as usual. the council has not taken a further decision and is behaving in this legal matter in exactly the same way as it does in major matters. it is a failure wherever the council is really supposed to keep things moving and to make things move. we do not need to talk about the budget, which is currently in such incredible difficulty. but it's a mirror image of what happened on the omnibus. i say now - although this has not much to do with the subject here - if it continues in this way, that national egoisms, that the vanity of the heads of state and government stop the operation here so massively, we will have great difficulties! it is already the case that in some member states economic policy nonsense is discussed along the lines of a return to the national currency or the introduction of a nordic euro. we're already there. i believe that the council has the main responsibility for this. i call on the council to reflect and to work seriously on this matter everywhere, including here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. where can it adopt delegated acts? but where should the european parliament be involved? i think we have found a reasonable middle ground. parliament has decided, on my suggestion, in committee for the time being, and i hope that will now happen in plenary, to limit the time available to the commission for its work in the field of delegated acts. we have voted for a limit of five years. i think that makes sense. the five-year period allows for better control of what the commission does. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that this bill will find a large majority in the plenary, so that we can also show that the whole parliament is united behind it.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not prepared to accept this. i may have misunderstood you, but do you think the european union should withdraw from the wto? or do you think that once again the individual member states should lead the wto negotiations and that would be better? i am on the european parliament's wto steering committee and i can tell you this: the european union's collective strength in the wto negotiations is much greater than the sum of the individual member states, and we also achieve much more together. there is nothing negotiated in the wto that should be the subject of delegated acts. that is the decision of the european parliament, and that is a good thing.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. trade policy makes one thing very clear: we may not agree with decisions taken at wto level - i too believe that many things could have been done differently - but one thing is absolutely clear: the sum of our collective strength is much greater than the strength of individual member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union's trade policy also shows that a policy area can work if everyone acts in a unified and unanimous way - unlike other policy areas where the council dominates, which is still not there and still not listening. i think that's clear. i would like to inform the commission that: it's nice when you say you accept this and you don't accept that. but the european parliament is the legislator. if we decide that today, we have decided that and it was a legislative act. i am also convinced that in the trialogue negotiations - if the council finally feels comfortable deciding something - we will find a good outcome - an outcome that is going in the right direction. i would like to thank you all again for your cooperation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the current developments in the solar sector between the european union and china are unfortunately indicative of the overall trade situation between the two partners. we are debating today, on the one hand, the commission's investigations into possible anti-dumping measures and, on the other, the chinese reverse cartel, which has launched similar investigations. it is time to act. the commission has not found any evidence that the union industry has been able to recover from the injury suffered by the union industry. austria also has leading manufacturers who are maintaining and creating important jobs in a promising sector. these companies are an essential part of our renewable energy goals and need to be protected. i would like to give a general impetus to trade relations between the european union and china. the dispute between the european union and the chinese solar industry is the cause of a continuing, simmering dispute, but it is not the root of the problem. if you put it that way, the solar industry is actually the tip of the iceberg. the main question i would therefore like to put to the commission today is to what extent china is generally willing to see europe as a partner in the future. i am convinced that the european union and china must be strategic partners in the future, on equal footing. a strategic partnership based on mutual respect and trust. however, i am currently missing this mutual appreciation and without appreciation no trust! the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. there are, of course, other questions: what approach will the commission take in the future to promote mutual trust? how can we protect and support more effectively european businesses, which are world leaders, in general? no one wants protectionism, but we need fairness and protection. the photovoltaic industry is a fundamental economic sector in europe and daniel caspary has already mentioned it the industry is on the ground. it is nevertheless creating thousands of direct and indirect jobs and is a symbol of european know-how. we must therefore ensure that the right steps are taken here too, and europe must finally show strength.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against this report by mrs koppa because, first of all, it expresses parliament's full support for the enlargement process, whilst completely ignoring the fact that turkey cannot in fact be admitted to this union. it is clear from paragraph 28 that there is a positive development in turkey. this report completely ignores the fact that ethnic and religious minorities - especially christians - are still persecuted in turkey and that just a few days ago - and this time again - turkish prime minister erdogan explicitly advocated the reintroduction of the death penalty. how can we talk about a positive development in turkey? i'm stunned i therefore voted against this report out of a deep conviction, and i repeat: turkey is not european, and it will never be part of europe, and i will be advocating that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for this resolution, even though i do not think it goes far enough. so i would like to make the following observation: first of all, i think that in future we should attach conditions to the 600 million euros that the european union spends annually in support payments in the region, and that is for both sides. all that has been said so far applies equally to both sides. the second is to make it clear to israel that in the long term - and the example of the failed gdr shows this - it is not possible to lock up millions of people behind three-metre-high walls and barbed wire. you can't do that! you simply have to involve a partner in a conversation, even if one of them doesn't fit. i think that we will have to talk to hamas sooner or later. austria has a great tradition. i remember how austria and kreisky were criticised when we spoke to arafat and fatah, and it turned out to be correct afterwards and even led to a nobel peace prize. the same should apply today!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against this report because, as a representative of a neutral country, i cannot possibly accept what is proposed in this report. the european union is being planned for a further militarization. the eu and nato will continue to work together. there is no talk of nuclear disarmament. in future, development aid to countries will even be linked to military purposes and military cooperation. the principle of separation between the eu and nato is further watered down. i am not a neutral country, and i cannot accept that, especially since the neutral countries are no longer even granted special treatment. i therefore believe that no member of this house representing a neutral country can support such reports.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against this report, as i voted against the kelam report and the tarand report, for the same reasons which have been mentioned mutatis mutandis in the danjean report. i would like to add something to that. this report is extremely unclear on two crucial points: what is the obligation to provide 'all means of assistance'? what does "all means" mean? this goes far beyond the obligation to provide assistance in nato. second blurring of the definition: what are 'man-made disasters'? every war is a man-made disaster which is then supposed to trigger a duty of care on the part of the member states? i repeat, this is unacceptable for someone from a neutral country! these are such blurbs that i could not give my approval to this report, which i could otherwise support in its basic objective of mutual aid in the event of disasters.
in writing. - despite the apparent problematic data gaps described, this report reflects the situation very well. the extensive consultation of various bodies and stakeholders and the demonstration of the necessary consensus between the relevant regional advisory council and the commission are to be highly appreciated. in order to ensure sustainable management and to protect the salmon stocks in the baltic sea, it is necessary to adopt appropriate measures, such as a reporting obligation, to control the recreational fishing element as well.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur's proposals for productive cooperation and transparency between the commission and parliament. it is equally useful to define precisely the objectives, content and powers of delegated acts and to involve parliament's experts in the commission's expert meetings. i also agree with the limitation in time of the delegation of powers in order to ensure better parliamentary control while at the same time maintaining a reasonable working time for the commission in the common commercial policy.
in writing. − the practice of shark finning, which involves cutting off the fins of the shark and throwing the rest of the carcass into the sea, which then sinks dead to the bottom, is leading to increased mortality in shark stocks. these practices should be banned in principle and it was time to close a loophole and finally make it mandatory that the fins of all sharks caught by eu fishing vessels worldwide and by vessels landing sharks within the eu should naturally remain on the shark carcass. i particularly welcome the end of the derogation in the former eu regulation which allowed fishermen with a special fishing permit to separate shark fins on board and land them in port separately from the shark carcass. the demand for shark fins is enormous because of the high prices of shark fin soup in the asian market. unfortunately, this economic incentive leads to sharks being killed for their fins. the european parliament's vote may be a means of curbing the cruel death of sharks.
in writing. - the rapporteur seems to see a lot through rose-tinted glasses, especially when i look at it from the perspective of the copenhagen criteria. i do not see any positive developments in turkey, for example. freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of religion and women's rights open questions with no solution in sight. and according to this report, each state should resolve its disputes with its neighbours before joining, especially if they concern territorial issues. i wonder what the solution to the cyprus problem is. and we, the eu, are still funding all this! this year alone we have paid 860 million euros in so-called pre-accession aid to turkey. the dramatic situation on the syrian border also shows us the additional dangers that turkey's accession would bring. when the european coal and steel community was created in 1952 - exactly 60 years ago - its founders wanted to secure lasting peace in europe. we must simply acknowledge that with the accession of turkey - and we see this very clearly in the present situation - as a border state with syria, as a front state in the middle east conflict, we are bringing warlike conflicts into the heart of the union. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - the report by my colleague is very pro-military in tone - many passages are well researched and well-defined. ensuring the eu's ability to act is of great importance, especially in terms of understanding the csdp as a crisis management tool. the country-specific comments in particular emphasise the importance of eu civilian and military operations in creating and maintaining peace, installing governments and creating basic conditions for the self-sufficiency of the local population in different regions. the ep is also called upon to be involved in the planned global approach to the csdp and to draw up a white paper on a suitable strategic framework.
in writing. − considering that cyber threats and attacks against government, administrative and military bodies and international bodies both in the eu and worldwide are a rapidly growing and increasingly frequent threat and that state and non-state actors, in particular terrorist and criminal organisations, are capable of attacking critical information systems, communication structures and infrastructures of eu institutions and member states, i am in favour of a cyber defence security strategy.
in writing. − the threat of cyberattacks, especially in relation to national and european security, should not be underestimated. the commission is therefore fully in favour of a comprehensive, coordinated approach at eu level to counter such attacks. strengthening security measures is not in contradiction with the idea of freedom on the internet and the respect of human rights, including online. member states must also play their role and increase their activities in cybersecurity. the cooperation referred to above is also important for a coordinated response to cybercrime and thus for improved cybersecurity and defence.
i have to say, madam president, the economic relations between the european union and central america are ambitious. they are accompanied by an untiring desire to deepen, extend and consolidate it. the reasons are clear: we want to further reduce tariffs, reduce trade barriers, mutually recognise standards and norms, protect investment and thus safeguard jobs and growth. the european union has thus also focused on the latin american continent in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. the association agreement with central america, which is being discussed today, and the trade agreement with peru and colombia, for example, are being supplemented by negotiations with the mercosur countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the advantages are obvious: firstly, the elimination of almost all customs duties a tariff relief of eur 90 billion per year is envisaged the strengthening of sanitary and phytosanitary standards with this agreement we go beyond the wto obligations, which means more effective protection for humans and animals the creation of equal opportunities european quality products with european indications of origin are thus also protected in central america and, above all, the strengthening of regional integration and the focus on sustainable development, i.e. permanent dialogue with ngos and civil society. the european union is not a party to the agreement, but it is a party to the agreement. european values and standards must also be represented overseas. it's our responsibility.
question for the commissioner: i am not saying that we should not be concerned. i agree with a lot of what they say, and the question i always ask myself is: what is the alternative? we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would be interested to know what you would suggest, because i think we are not at odds on these issues.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the first is that, of course, it would be nice to have a multilateral trade agreement, but the chances of that happening are very, very slim. i don't think that's going to happen any time soon. the second is that the european union needs strategic partners beyond its own capabilities. i think central america can be such a partner. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in the present situation, one can either say: no, i do not want such an agreement now because it has many disadvantages. or you can say, "well, i want the deal because it's mutually beneficial. we have succeeded since the treaty of lisbon - and i think it must be admitted - as the european parliament in including something like a social dimension, a human rights dimension, an environmental dimension in these agreements, which may ultimately serve to improve the overall situation. this is a balancing act that each one must make for himself. i am of the opinion that it is more sensible to conclude such agreements than to do nothing. it seems that no other kind of agreement is possible. what i don't understand is if we start discussing things here and making claims that aren't true. for example, my colleague from the committee on development, who has now chosen not to be present when someone wants to respond to what she says, claims that there are no human rights, no social clauses, no environmental protection. that's not true! it's just not true! it may not be enough for some, but it is not the place to make untrue claims. and finally, we are discussing a trade agreement. all the speeches concern trade policy. i wonder why the foreign affairs committee has the main responsibility here and not the trade committee!
madam president, i would like to return to mr leichtfried: as the spokesman for my group's foreign policy, i think it is right and good that this issue should be dealt with as a main issue in the committee on foreign affairs and not in the committee on trade, because there is a chance that at least some elements, such as human rights and the like, will be taken into account a little more than would be the case in the committee on trade. and now i prefer to follow in spanish for the people who perhaps listen to us from latin america. the european union today received the nobel peace prize for the pacification of our continent, a fact for which my group congratulates itself. in order to maintain credibility in the struggle for peace, for the welfare of the people, for human rights and for economic, social and ecologically sustainable development, this house should reject this agreement for all the reasons which its members have already stated, because these agreements are not consistent with the values which we have always defended. as a clarification, he said that my group is not against concluding agreements with other countries or regions, but that we should focus on improving the situation of the entire population, the indigenous population, the poorest, women, and a socially and ecologically just economy. this agreement with central america, as well as the one concluded with colombia and peru, does not satisfy these criteria. that is why i ask your senhors to vote tomorrow against these two agreements. because we must be coherent and credible, and that is why we have received the nobel peace prize.
blue-card question. – mr arlacchi, of course i know and all of us know and recognise that there has been progress in colombia and in peru on many levels, also at a human rights level, and now there are talks going on about a new peace agreement between the government and the farc, which is good. however, just a couple of weeks ago we had representatives of the comunidad de paz de san josé de apartadó here, who were finalists for the sakharov prize last year, and they were reporting that just right now paramilitaries and also government forces, soldiers, are attacking or close to their villages, threatening them. so what do you tell them if you say that this is good and things are a lot better than they were? they are suffering right now. what do you tell them? they were finalists for the sakharov prize which this parliament awards. i think that is a reason why we should be very sceptical.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think that the text of the treaty in question, namely between the european union and peru and colombia, is of a special nature in creating a trade agreement. it is therefore of particular importance because trade policy is sometimes criticised for not being sustainable. it is accused of pursuing exclusively commercial policy objectives and of putting everything else on the back burner. the discussions on the trade agreement have repeatedly criticised the failure to take account of human and labour rights and environmental protection. and rightly so. and rightly so, there have been question and answer sessions, debates, workshops and hearings that have accompanied the negotiation process. the aim was to create an agreement that would benefit both sides. and i think that worked. the special nature of the treaty is reflected in article 1, which expressly states that fundamental rights must be respected and enforced. their disregard could even lead to the suspension of the entire agreement. the protection of human and labour rights is thus enshrined in the convention and is therefore punishable. the roadmap of the colombian government should also be welcomed. much has been achieved, much of course still remains to be achieved. the advantages are clear in the commercial sector. not only in the european union, but also in peru and colombia, this agreement will boost their economies and create jobs. more than eur 200 million is expected to be generated annually through tariff reductions. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting and the misuse of euro banknotes and coins. more than 100 geographical indications are now protected in the two latin american countries. this ensures european quality products and gives consumers security. in conclusion, i hope that tomorrow the european parliament will give its consent to this well-balanced agreement. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question for the commissioner: the commission is not prepared to accept this. mrs köstinger has mentioned sustainability. i have a question about that. first, do you think sustainability also relates to the environment and environmental protection? secondly, the commission has already said today that it is very important that asparagus and avocados are imported from all over the world. do you think it's very sustainable to import these products specifically? and on the subject of palm oil and sustainability, will the substantial increase in palm oil imports not lead to the displacement of european dairy products? i'd be very interested to see if this is sustainable.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i thank mr obermayr for the question. in general, europe is not living on an island of blessings, but nevertheless a great many points which were of great importance to this house in particular were also laid down in this agreement. we do not need to talk about the sustainability issues, particularly with regard to palm oil imports and the like, but here in europe we too have our tasks to fulfil and above all our homework to do. but if you look at the negotiating text in detail, and also at the products covered by this free trade agreement, you will see that it is very balanced and that europe has placed the greatest emphasis on excluding these points. i would also like to refer to article 8 (3). i think mr obermayr should look at it more closely later.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have rarely seen a debate in this house where a subject has been so central to the attention of all the speakers - namely the link between trade policy and human rights. almost everyone has responded. the only other statement was that of mr obermayr, who has probably not yet dealt with this subject in the committees and who believes that the asparagus problem is the main problem. it is not that, it is the human rights issue in colombia! but i have not yet seen that this thesis has led to such different opinions as to whether this agreement is helping or not. we are really a little bit divided and torn between the groups. i think that this question cannot be solved definitively either. i think the trade policy and the agreement have made things better in colombia. but you're nowhere near good enough. so we must continue to try to make things better in colombia. i believe that in the end it will help to agree to these agreements. but we must be absolutely clear about one thing: we are talking about more justice than we are now, we are talking about more rule of law, and we are talking about more social standards. we must ensure that this is the case in the future too! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question for the commissioner: thank you, mr president. mr president, i think the central question has been raised. in dealing with this subject, however, i have a question: is there any danger in this agreement that drug money can be more easily smuggled into the european union through money laundering, or can this be excluded? it's about lighter, it's not about not at all, and it's about peace.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not my dear colleague, i think there is nothing to rule out. it cannot be ruled out that such agreements may have negative consequences. and in the end, the overall decision whether to agree or disagree with such an agreement is an incredibly difficult one. this is difficult in any trade agreement, but i think it is particularly difficult in the case of colombia and peru. and i think that's a decision that everyone has to make on their own conscience. and since you said that the austrian social democratic group will not vote in a closed session. we have different opinions and those should be respected, and i think that's a good thing. in the end, each person must decide for himself what he is to do.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the free trade agreement with colombia and peru has been given a more social face. there is a safeguard clause for social standards, there is a monitoring mechanism. this is entirely due to the european parliament and its activities, and in particular to mr bernd lange, to whom i would like to express my gratitude. but is that enough? i don't think it's enough for you. the murder of trade unionists, the murder of social activists continues, impunity continues, the importance of military justice, which can cover up some things, is far too great. in my view, all this is not enough to justify ratifying this free trade agreement. the colombian government has done a great deal of justice, and that is commendable. but there's a big difference between right and reality. how can the colombian government guarantee that all the good, positive aspects of the agreement will be respected if it is not able to stop the killing and impunity itself? the date of ratification is therefore ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very sorry that you did not give me the message, namely after the blue card to colleague leichtfried, who obviously did not pay attention. i am not just talking about the avocados and asparagus that the commission has cut. if my colleague leichtfried thinks that importing asparagus and avocados from all over the world is smart and sustainable, then he has a different opinion from mine. i am very happy, of course, to hear the views of mr leichtfried's colleagues who are concerned about human rights, and i do not need to mention them explicitly now. but i also believe that sustainability is important in terms of environmental protection in these countries. and when i think that there's going to be more palm oil plantations in the future, that there are already millions of acres being planned, that there are going to be new palm oil plantations, i'm afraid that the rainforest, the water quality, the biodiversity are at risk, and only the transnational corporations are making money, and the small farmers are not making any money. and that was directed at you, mr leichtfried.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mai was the acronym that brought hundreds of thousands of concerned citizens onto the streets in the 1990's. multilateral agreement on investments it was then seen as protecting and safeguarding the world's large corporations against any form of urgently needed intervention by then sovereign nation states. any form of nationalisation would have made it impossible, restricted workers' rights. in its place, according to various historians and economists, has come the expansion of the european union too quickly, because it was said that after its failure in the streets through civil resistance, at least there we want to have security, at least there the big corporations should be able to operate safely. in parallel, all these agreements have developed bilaterally. now, let's summarize this. in principle, if you are, like me, a fervent pro-european, but very critical of this extremely growing redistribution within the european union, it makes a lot of sense that you support it. but the questions are: how are smes actually protected? what about patents? how do we deal with the african countries? would it not be much more sensible to differentiate between the real developing countries and the emerging countries where we would need protection in such agreements? i am unhappy with what is being put forward and the development it is taking. i think it's the wrong way. i would very much like the european union to take care of the protection of institutions in a different way than by simply protecting large corporations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the treaty of rome, which was signed in rome in december of that year, is a treaty of friendship, trade and navigation, and it is a treaty which has been ratified by all the member states of the community. in this confusion, some countries complain of unreasonable restrictions on their regulatory space. in a time when the turnover of some companies exceeds the gross national income of entire countries and when transnational corporations often grow at the expense of the national economy, they may not be entirely wrong. this is also the case in view of the dual role of lawyers or judges in investment protection proceedings. the eu must act clearly in this context, so as not to counteract its own development policy, which is being promoted with billions. the combination of deregulation, investment liberalisation, export guarantees and bilateral investment protection agreements is known to have massive consequences for developing countries, and there is a need to find a solution to cases where an eu state is threatened with infringement proceedings when the obligation under an investment protection arbitration award is incompatible with eu law. the eu's role in the international arena is to provide a platform for the exchange of information and best practices, to promote the exchange of experience and to promote the exchange of good practices. i believe that these points should be clarified before the eu concludes an investment protection agreement with china.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the lisbon treaty includes foreign direct investment in the common commercial policy and gives the eu exclusive competence. and the member states can only conclude more agreements if they are empowered by the union. in addition to the fact that the competences of the member states are massively restricted, there are also problems of legal certainty, since existing agreements between member states remain binding under international law. this means that it is therefore important that the highest standards of protection apply, especially to investors from the union. if protection standards in an agreement of a member state are higher than in an agreement of the union, then the higher protection standards should apply.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the union has not yet succeeded in consolidating its influence in central asia, which is so important from a geostrategic and resource point of view. the fact that the planned $750 million in reform aid had to be temporarily suspended because of the euro crisis has not exactly boosted the trust of the central asian elites in the eu leadership. kyrgyzstan is the only country in central asia that is moving towards parliamentary democracy. but it certainly has a long way to go. much will depend on how the aftermath of the 2010 violence is handled. if the rights of the accused are indeed being violated repeatedly and many confessions have been forced under torture, this shows that there is still much to be done in terms of human rights. the key issue will therefore be how the political and legal reforms are actually implemented and accepted in society. it is hoped that the eu macrofinancial assistance, together with russian assistance, will serve the democratic development of kyrgyzstan accordingly.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 december 2012, at 12 noon.
the next item is the one-minute explanations (rule 150 of the rules of procedure).
mr president, may i draw your attention to the town of kyrenia in cyprus, whose inhabitants became refugees after the turkish invasion and who left to return to their homes. there are still about 1 000 people missing, and their families still do not know about the fate of their loved ones. most importantly, for the moment, may i make the kyrenians heard and ask for support for their plans to celebrate the forthcoming easter vespers on monday, 6 may next year, in the church of st george of upper kyrenia, the only church in an operational condition in this area. after 39 years, about 300 kyrenians from all over the world plan to celebrate this important holiday in their former home town. let us contribute to making this plan possible. allowing them to celebrate easter together in this meaningful place is to be considered a humanitarian act.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. although i immediately after the publication of the baseless accusations of martin ehrenhauser against me in april 2011 asked the responsible officials of the european parliament in writing several times to secure the relevant data in the parliament area in order to prove the data theft of private personal e-mail documents from the office of martin ehrenhauser, this backup has apparently not been done. this provided the vienna public prosecutor's office with the basis for closing the case against ehrenhauser and his associates without investigation. that's how you suppress evidence! in addition, since spring 2012 in the eu parliament! i have been approached by journalists who say that there should be an application for an extended waiver of immunity because of the baseless claims made by mr ehrenhauser. i don't know anything about the parliamentary administration. what kind of absurd political game is this? i ask you to clarify! i cannot allow myself to be played the same game as in 2006, when olaf was suddenly called in two weeks before the elections.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. according to the turkish social security institute, 172 work accidents occur in turkey every day, with an average of three fatalities. since 2000, 12 290 people have died in turkey alone from work accidents. this puts the country in third place in the world for fatal work accidents. the second big problem is well known to many of us. the commission has been trying to create a union-free environment by using some crazy methods. workers who organise themselves into a trade union or go on strike are dismissed without notice. examples are turkish airlines, dhl and renault bursa. in addition, 69 trade unionists have been in prison for some time now, since july, for the very reason that they are trade unionists. trade union rights, a safe and healthy working environment and freedom of expression are fundamental human rights that must be respected.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the report by mrs roberta angelilli on the prevention of age-related diseases in women [2012/2129 (ini) ] (a7-0340/2012).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. europe has an ageing population, with low birth rates and a longer life expectancy. according to the world health organization, people are considered old from the age of 65 onward. there is a clear gender imbalance at this age across the eu. 50.6 million of the more than 87 million are women. women outlive men in life expectancy, but they are also at higher risk of disease and are much more susceptible to it. it is therefore logical that we should find appropriate information strategies, because the consequences of inactive ageing are not only costing the individual woman a healthy life, but also society and individuals high costs in the medical and social fields.
in writing. the effects of aging cannot be cured by a few miracle pills. because as we age, our metabolism slows down, cell renewal slows down, the water content of our tissues decreases, and our body's own repair work doesn't go as smoothly as it used to. gender differences also play a role in the aging process. of the centenarians, up to 85 percent are female. but while women are more resistant to age-related, life-shortening diseases, their morbidity is increasing. in plain language, women do age considerably more than men, but their hormonal constitution and comparatively lower muscle mass make them more frail and needy when they reach advanced age. one factor that we should not forget about women's aging is the growing trend towards radical starvation cures, which are becoming more common among girls. diets that are one-sided or lack nutrition deprive the body of important nutrients and can impair development during adolescence and lead to age-related diseases later in life. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on constitutional affairs. mr president, commissioner, minister louca and, above all, the rapporteurs, you are all very welcome. i would like to congratulate you all on the agreement you have reached. the aim of common patent protection has been set, and we have achieved - and i can't wait to hear it - a result after more than 50 years. and after we had already thought before the summer that we would finally be able to vote on a compromise on a negotiated package between the council and the european parliament, we heard with great disappointment, with a shake of the head, with horror the announcement by the european council that three articles of the regulation which was in the hands of the european parliament had been deleted! it has been mentioned many times before, but i have never seen such a blatant circumvention of the treaties. i think it is a democratically worrying thing when the heads of state or government body - which is not a legislative body - alters the content of a compromise between the legislative chambers, so to speak, the council and the european parliament, in such a way that the heart of the regulation is deleted and the whole thing becomes illegal under eu law. i have to say that if the commission is the guardian of the treaties, the european parliament is obviously the guardian of democracy. in this case, thanks go to the three rapporteurs who have been uncompromising in their efforts to reinstate the lost content of the deleted articles elsewhere. legally speaking, we do not have the ideal solution, but parliament has ensured that the european court of justice has its competence here, its monopoly, namely to assess conformity with european law in the context of preliminary ruling procedures and to interpret european law. as the author of the opinion of the constitutional committee on the patent litigation court system, i would like to emphasise that effective unitary patent protection helps small and medium-sized enterprises in particular to cope with the crisis. you'll have less red tape to deal with. validation is effective in all the member states concerned, and a court has jurisdiction in the event of a dispute. the only way to ensure effective unitary patent protection is through a well-functioning patent court system. the first principle is that the unified patent court respects union law and, in particular, that the court of justice is open to referring questions for a preliminary ruling under article 267. and the european parliament has also been able to ensure that. i would like to appeal to the member states that all the member states participating in enhanced cooperation also participate in the international agreement establishing the eu patent court and i would like to warn the member states that there will be no enhanced cooperation within enhanced cooperation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all the talk about an innovative europe is inadequate if there is not enough protection and sufficient support and resources.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. while we are discussing a european 'patent' today, the european court of justice is adjudicating on an objection concerning the legal basis. that is something we have always respected up to now; today it is not done. to be clear, i have always been in favour of an eu patent which is accessible, which is cheap, which we can use and which really takes us forward, and i have fought for this. what we have on the table today does not meet those conditions. mr rapkay has already touched on the history of this patent, and it was undoubtedly very, very problematic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the compromise that has now been reached with an international convention is not what a european patent creates. you just have to say it loud and clear. we are giving up our ability to influence a european patent. i need to get this straight. even the european court of justice has minimal possibilities to object at all. you are all familiar with the procedure for references for preliminary rulings, and i think i can assume that. and then you have to ask yourself the next question. who benefits from the regulation we have now on the table? the system is becoming more complex. the complexity of the situation is what makes it difficult for small and mediumsized enterprises. large companies can very well afford to hire an army of lawyers to enforce their rights. this is much more difficult for small and mediumsized enterprises. that is why they also turned to us and said: please don't do that! it's not a patent that really helps us. the second point is that even larger companies and civil society are now protesting and saying that this is not what we need for the european economy. the question of cost: yes, getting the patent may be cheaper, but the litigation costs will increase due to the increasing complexity of the system, and this will hurt smes even more. the scientific community rejects this model, including the compromise, because it was already anticipated in its opinion. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field. the patent practice of the european patent office often goes very far beyond the limits of patentability and sometimes even beyond - whether it is a patent on life, whether it is breeder's privilege, whether it is for example the patenting of software. we have very limited possibilities here to safeguard what the european parliament, what the european level has established. it is not an eu patent as we imagine it to be, and therefore i cannot give my consent to it. it endangers what it claims to protect.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in principle, a unitary patent could well strengthen the eu's innovation capacity in global competition, especially against the us and china. reduced bureaucracy and reduced costs should bring benefits to businesses. but i'm skeptical for a number of reasons. first, skeptical of the jurisdiction. the proposed unified court would completely replace the experienced european patent courts in the member states. the national industrial property rights would simply be abolished to make way for an eu authority. and secondly, the quality of the meal i'm planning seems more than doubtful. even the commission admits that it is losing efficiency. the court of first instance could at best achieve the 25% of the national courts and i also dislike the way the whole thing is discussed behind closed doors. this reminds me a lot of acta. once again, the specialists have not been involved. and thirdly, the costs of the procedure are not reduced; on the contrary, experts expect five times the costs, and five times the risk. small and mediumsized businesses will no longer be able to afford it, and industry will no longer need expensive, slow dishes. and the medium-sized companies don't need that. the proposal should also be amended to allow the decisions of the patent court to be challenged before the ecj. finally, unitary patents may not be granted for animals or plants.
thank you, mr president. it's nice to see they finally looked over. i've been showing for about a minute. and of course i wanted to support this proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. human rights were mentioned by my predecessor. it's also about sustainability, about protecting the environment. and there are many things that need to be discussed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i therefore supported the suggestion made by my predecessor that we should put the whole thing off for a while and continue the discussion.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against all three motions for resolutions, against the rapkay report, against the baldassarre report and against the lehne report, simply because i do not think that this is protecting small and mediumsized enterprises, but that in future pharmaceutical companies will have a very easy time bringing a single case against small companies in the individual member states, where they used to have to bring up to 20 or 27 cases. the same applies to the activities of small farmers and plant breeders. they're getting really excited. so anyone who claims to protect these small farms is lying. in the future, these farms will be wiped out of the market by the big breeders, the big pharmaceutical companies, and we will be a lot poorer in terms of our biodiversity, in terms of domestic agriculture, in terms of small-scale agriculture. and, by the way, there are legal reasons as well. the decisions of the new unified patent court are not even subject to review by the european court of justice. and the non-profit organizations that are trying to protect consumer rights are not going to be able to do these costly procedures because of the very high costs. so there are a whole host of reasons to be against it here. and that is why i regret that this decision was taken today.
in writing. - the so-called digital revolution has changed life in many areas, bringing new forms of trade, new ways of finding information and education. product and price comparisons are now possible with one click. e-commerce may face differences in eu rules in key areas such as vat, postal services or intellectual property rights. however, this is probably not the decisive factor in why consumers do not shop cross-border, i.e. in another member state, within the union territory to the extent expected. in addition to the language barrier, fragmented consumer law, cross-border shipping costs and security concerns in electronic payments certainly play a role. it is questionable whether the online sector has actually created 2.6 new equivalent jobs for every job lost 'offline' in recent years, as the report claims. in the last few years, however, there has been an increasing tendency to replace fulltime jobs with temporary, parttime and small-scale jobs. for these reasons i cannot agree with the report, although it contains a number of good points.
in writing. − the digital single market is an important step towards job creation in the crisis, as it is the easiest way for citizens to reap the benefits of the single market. the commission will also be supporting the development of a european digital single market for digital content. the fragmentation and lack of legal certainty and the inconsistent enforcement of rules in the member states are also problems. the commission also needs to find solutions for smes that have difficulties in handling returns and to reduce problems with the shipping infrastructure. i have abstained because of these many unresolved problems.
in writing. − the european parliament has overwhelmingly voted in favour of a coherent framework to strengthen trust in the digital single market. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of research and technological development, in particular in the framework of the european research area. a survey carried out in germany showed that while two thirds of young people surveyed had a good feeling about data protection a year ago, only 54% now have a good feeling. the decision adopted today has my approval because it urges the council to no longer block the work on the data protection directive. data protection is an essential prerequisite for european citizens' confidence in the digital single market. only if citizens are assured that their personal data is handled with care will they be able to fully exploit and embrace digital offerings.
in writing. − consumers are losing more and more trust in the digital single market. a recent study of young people in germany shows that trust in social networks is declining. the survey also found that the number of young people who feel that their data is protected is increasing. in recent months, it has become increasingly clear that data protection is not being sufficiently addressed by large companies. the council adopted a decision calling on the council to no longer block the work on the data protection directive. data protection is an essential prerequisite for the functioning of the digital single market. only if consumers are assured that their personal data is handled with care will they fully embrace digital offerings.
in writing. − in principle, any support for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the eu is desirable. however, in this context, much paper has been produced and little actually put into circulation. so while the eu's paper tigers are proliferating, smes are being systematically starved of money with the constant tightening of basel equity rules, cut off from eu funding by complicated regulations, while large companies and multinational corporations are being supported by millions. the usefulness of the internationalisation of smes in the form that it is intended to be is questionable. it would be more sensible to make the basel rules on equity capital more favourable to smes, to make it easier to access funding and to finally remove bureaucratic obstacles. that is why i abstained.
in writing. − in an age where anyone who disagrees with the mainstream media's view of 'political correctness' and expresses their own free opinion is on a hit list, and where bank data, airline passenger data, police data, internet surfing and digital shopping behaviour are being transferred across the atlantic, digital freedom cannot be far behind. there is a lot of criticism of internet censorship in distant countries, and at the same time, in the name of democracy and security and in the tension of the desires of entire industries - just think of the anti-piracy agreement negotiated behind closed doors - more and more freedoms are being curtailed and more should be curtailed. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. and of course, the internet may have played a role in the arab spring revolutions, if not the decisive one. although this proposal has some good points, i did not agree to it for the reasons i have just given.
in writing. - since lisbon, foreign direct investment has been included in the common commercial policy, i.e. only the union authorises agreements between member states. this raises the problem of legal certainty, since existing agreements between member states remain binding under international law. if protection standards in a member country's agreement are higher than in an eu agreement, the former should apply. i have voted against the report for these reasons.
in writing. − following the armed conflict with russia in 2008 and the impact of the global financial crisis, georgia is facing financial problems despite multi-million euro aid packages. the second tranche of eu macrofinancial assistance was designed to help georgia meet its external financing needs and was subject to strict conditionality. however, the money still does not seem to be used efficiently enough. however, this is unacceptable in view of the budgetary situation in the vast majority of eu countries. i am in favour of financial support for georgia in principle and have taken these considerations into account in my voting behaviour.
in writing. − the eu has been trying to adopt a single european patent system since 2000, but has failed largely because of the insurmountable language barrier. in principle, a unitary patent is welcome to strengthen the eu's innovation capacity in global competition, especially against the us and china. however, the proposed unified patent court would displace the experienced european patent courts in the member states and national intellectual property rights would give way to the eu authority. even if the quality were only approximately the same, the quantity would suffer. it is expected that a maximum of 25% of the current completion rates will be achieved. experts also expect a fivefold increase in costs and risks, so that smes, for example, will no longer be able to sue. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. the new european patent court is designed to bring national institutions in the field of industrial property rights to a halt. however, the competition between national patent offices and the national courts attached to them contributes significantly to the quality of the european courts. the aim is to create a completely new common patent court to replace the highly successful national patent courts, which have a tradition of more than a century. the quality and efficiency of the planned jurisdiction is more than doubtful. in a previously unpublished study by the eu commission of 7 november 2011, the commission itself admits that the new multinational court will at most achieve a turnover of around 25% of national courts. this case is just one in a long list of nonsense committed by fanatical eurocrats for whom the only way to get a regulation right is to get it from brussels. the brussels mania for centralisation is most evident in the misconstruction of the euro. it is sad that it is taking over more and more areas of life, destroying rational and tried-and-tested constructions. i therefore naturally voted against the report.
in writing. − the implementation of a stability mechanism and a safeguard clause for the import of bananas from central america into the european union is designed to ensure a stable and high-quality trade in fruit. at the same time, the quality of bananas is to be guaranteed for european consumers. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the eu-central america association agreement is the first bi-regional association agreement signed by the eu since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the development of eu-latin america association relations is mutually beneficial and brings benefits to all. after all, the eu is the main investor and second largest trading partner in central america, as well as the largest donor of development aid. the agreement may also be suitable for contributing to greater regional integration and stability in central america. nevertheless, there are concerns about the negative impact of the new rules on the economic situation of the local economy in latin america. i have abstained because there are serious and well-founded concerns.
in writing. − the eu's association agreement with the latin american countries is the first bi-regional association agreement since the lisbon treaty and is designed to benefit both sides. the benefits for latin america are questionable, as most central american exports under the gsp+ already have duty-free access to the eu, and their trade policy room to develop their own development strategies that benefit the poor is likely to be limited. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. the central american region has become one of the european union's most important trading partners. with trade in goods worth €174 billion and services worth €44 billion, it is in the european parliament's interest to further remove existing trade barriers. the aim is to promote the conservation of resources by introducing quality standards to protect consumers and producers and by targeting the modernisation of agriculture and industry. the protection of human rights is a top priority for the european parliament. article 355 of the convention provides for the possibility of suspending the convention in the event of human rights violations. the agreement therefore not only further promotes and intensifies trade, which is of economic importance to the european union, but also guarantees the protection of fundamental human rights. that is why i voted for the agreement.
in writing. - in order to guarantee consumers throughout the european union high-quality protection and quality when importing bananas from colombia and peru, i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of a stabilisation mechanism and a safeguard clause.
in writing. − in 2012, a trade agreement was concluded between the eu and colombia and peru. the agreement provides, inter alia, for the reduction and ultimately the elimination of customs duties in bilateral trade between the partners. it also contains a safeguard clause allowing tariff preferences to be suspended or withdrawn, very similar to the free trade agreement with the republic of korea, but with two differences in terms of the volume of bananas released and the special treatment of less-favoured areas. furthermore, the convention does not contain any provisions on customs refunds and no sensitive sectors are listed. the commission has also avoided parliamentary concerns such as provisions on monitoring and reporting or the role of trade unions and ngos. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - peru and colombia are important trading partners for the european union. the implementation of the agreement is expected to result in an annual relief of eur 270 million in customs duties on eu exports. the aim is to intensify trade to the benefit of both parties by eliminating customs barriers, improving access to services and investment and improving access to public procurement. this will facilitate the movement of goods and bring benefits to both sides. the european parliament attaches great importance to the protection and observance of human rights as set out in paragraph 1. that is why i voted for the agreement.
in writing. − the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part (hereinafter referred to as 'the agreement') forms part of the long-standing relationship between the eu and the andean community. the agreement was signed on 26 june 2012 with colombia and peru. the other countries of the andean community may accede by virtue of the accession clause provided for in article 329. in terms of scope and objectives, the agreement is consistent with the eu's free trade policy as expressed in the 2006 global europe strategy and reaffirmed in the 2010 trade, growth and world affairs communication. the convention is comprehensive in that, after a transitional period, virtually all customs duties are abolished and the service obligations go far beyond the gats. the liberalization of services markets is also taking place. i think this is quite critical, because it could seriously damage the local economy, which is why i abstained.
in writing. the commission's aim is to eliminate high tariffs, to remove technical barriers to trade (exporters are to benefit from tariff advantages of eur 270 million per year), to liberalise the markets for services, to protect valuable geographical indications, etc. the inclusion of the human rights clause in article 1 is also positive. however, exporters from these countries already have non-traditional goods such as asparagus, avocados or palm oil on their list. the question arises as to whether it is worthwhile importing colombian or peruvian asparagus into austria. peru is already planning to plant thousands of hectares of new palm oil plantations, which could cause significant damage to tropical forests, water quality and biodiversity, benefit only transnational corporations (again not the small farmer) and displace european dairy products. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - i voted against the european union's free trade agreement with colombia and peru, despite the safeguard clauses negotiated for the first time by the european parliament in a free trade agreement. the european parliament has achieved a great deal in getting colombia and peru to change the law and has also secured the right to observe the reforms. however, i believe that the timing of the signing is still too early. colombia and peru have taken measures, including legislation, to protect the situation of trade unionists, human rights and social activists, but it will probably take a few years to see whether this right is being implemented. the law and reality are still divided. i think the eu should first check whether the projects are actually being implemented and then decide whether the two andean countries are ready to sign the free trade agreement. the murder rate of trade unionists and human rights activists has remained unchanged and has been rising since 2010. by september this year, 235 attacks on human rights activists were registered, including 37 murders. with 35 trade unionists murdered in 2011, colombia remains the most dangerous country in the world for people to organise themselves in a trade union. as a trade unionist, i cannot agree to a free trade agreement unless i see changes.
in writing. − while the european parliament has achieved a lot of positive things in terms of protecting people involved in fundamental rights and trade union activities in colombia and peru, it has also made a lot of progress in the area of human rights. in my view, however, the implementation of the promised reforms in these countries should be monitored first. colombia is still one of the most dangerous countries for people to be in a trade union. in 2011, 35 trade unionists were murdered and hundreds of attacks on human rights activists were registered this year alone. only when the states have demonstrated, through serious efforts and reforms, that they are protecting the fundamental and human rights of their citizens, can a free trade agreement be agreed. that is why i did not agree to the eu-colombia/peru trade agreement.
in writing. - although women age considerably more than men, their hormonal constitution and comparatively lower muscle mass usually make them more frail and needy when they reach advanced age. these gender differences should be taken into account, particularly in the prevention of age-related diseases. this is all the more so as the risk of multiple diseases increases with age and thus the length of hospital stays increases. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. rather, the environment needs to be designed to reduce stress factors that play a role in a number of age-related diseases in the long term, such as the double burden of work-life balance or the 'sandwich burden' of caring for children and frail parents at the same time. another starting point is surely the beauty mania that leads to radical starvation cures in teenagers with long-term health consequences into old age. i have taken these points into account in my voting behaviour.
in writing. − ‘ageing’ is a biological, social construct and fact which affects indeed both genders. however, research shows that the incidence of debilitating diseases is much higher in the case of women than among men. even if women have longer life expectancies, during a life time they are – due to biological structure – exposed to more and diverse diseases than men. ‘ageing’ is a complex process that needs to be approached from different aspects: personal (behavioural and physical), social and economic. i believe that ‘ageing’ is still a ‘continuous need of dependence’ and that is why healthcare and social services have to be accessible even for old people facing a more difficult financial situation. we need to improve health and quality of life by implementing policies, programmes and practices that will maintain the ageing population active and healthy. above all, i truly believe that older women need special attention (not only in europe but all over the world). i voted in favour.
in writing. − the medical progress of the antibiotic age is in danger of being undermined by the growing threat of antimicrobial resistance (amr). it is therefore essential to seek the economical and targeted use of antibiotics, both in humans and animals. the proposals of the rapporteur and the committee responsible are to be welcomed, but they are too vague. it is not enough to put in nice words and persuade someone to practice sustainable livestock farming with low use of antibiotics; i am not sure that the report contains any specific objectives. that is why i abstained.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not i would like to ask you, mrs rubial, that we have a budget of about 130 billion euros, which has been approved here accordingly. the european council also welcomed the commission's intention to continue to work towards the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks. do you think this budget will solve the problems of youth unemployment in europe?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the budgetary debacle of this year would not have happened if so many projects had not been submitted which could not be paid by the member states at the beginning and at the end. i guess that's what you have to say in today's situation. it is clear that what we have on the table now is only a compromise. but it was a very difficult one, with a lot of hand-wringing and a lot of stomach pain on our part. we've heard that many times today. the budget for next year is definitely one of extreme prudence, and above all one thing must be clear: this budget is an investment budget - a good 96 per cent of the money goes back to our citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the starting point for this report is essentially the following: ((the microphone is not working.)... later raised suspicions that measures to protect against aircraft noise are being handled in a relatively heterogeneous and uncoordinated manner in the european union, but i think that was the reason for the commission to put forward a legislative proposal to change this situation, and above all to change it in such a way that a certain uniformity is achieved and that those who have to rely on these measures either because they suffer from noise or because they are active in this industry have a certain level of protection. i think the basic idea of this whole law is one that's relatively reasonable. we have a situation where i think the problems of aircraft noise are becoming more and more serious, particularly in the increasingly densely built-up areas of central europe, and that is why it was necessary for the commission to react. but there is one thing this law cannot and should not do: it is not intended to set heights for aircraft noise levels. it is not intended to regulate what is acceptable and what is not acceptable in terms of noise in europe. it is only intended to regulate how noise reduction measures are to be implemented and is essentially based on the balanced approach of icao, which essentially says to use the milder means first and if that does not help and if that is not efficient and effective, use stronger means up to the flight ban, especially up to the night flight ban. the problems which concerned us most in this law were essentially three: firstly, how are aircraft which are still complying with the regulations being phased out? i think we have found a good solution here, which is to provide for a certain transitional period and then a slow slide from noisy aircraft to quieter aircraft. i think this was the right way. secondly, what about delegated acts? what can the commission decide without involving the european parliament as legislator? we did not entirely agree with the commission on this. what we have already decided in committee and what we will probably decide in plenary is essentially that, as soon as political issues are involved in these decisions, the european parliament, as the representative of the european people, has to decide, and not the commission, with delegated acts. but when it comes to taking technical decisions, the commission can also do so by means of delegated acts. thirdly, and this was the most difficult problem: the commission proposed and provided in the original draft law that it could also abolish national noise abatement measures. i think this is the wrong way. i think that each state, each federal state, is in a very good position to judge for itself whether and to what extent a measure is necessary, and i think that the possibilities which the commission has had up to now, including infringement proceedings against member states which may not be complying with european law, have been sufficient. we have also made sure that in future the european commission will be better informed and will be able to cooperate better with the authorities responsible for the decision-making process, so that the overall situation can be improved here too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when i took over this report, my first thought was: this is going to be unsolvable. i have had the pleasure and honour of working with extremely committed and serious colleagues. i would like to thank you very much for this and i would also like to thank in particular the staff in my office who are responsible for this dossier, because without their excellent work it would not have been possible to achieve such a good result!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it's hard to make something good out of a suboptimal proposal. i therefore thank the rapporteurs for doing their best. the proposal was rejected in committee because there is little positive to be expected from it: social dumping at airports, worse working and income conditions, less training, all for the promise of lower costs, which are then usually not passed on to passengers anyway. we do not want to see another step of forced liberalization. what disturbed me was that after the rejection in the transport committee, the commission lobbied vehemently to get the proposal through. i think that a decision that has been taken should be respected. i have reliable testimony from colleagues. the world health organization has long shown us how harmful noise exposure at night or during the day is for all people. noise is responsible for health damage and for serious impairments in the quality of life of people living near airports. instead of creating better conditions for trainers and encouraging technical innovation more quickly , the commission is doing one thing: it intends to intervene in regional operating time restrictions if any competitor sees an economic disadvantage. this is a completely wrong approach, and i think that is the worst way of affecting the image of the european union in the eyes of its citizens. if this paragraph is not voted down tomorrow, we as greens cannot agree to it. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented. i am sorry, commissioner, but i do not think this proposal is well thought out or is aimed solely at lobbyists at airports. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not i really didn't hear the question, but do you want to send the euro back to the committee for reconsideration or the airport package? if you don't ask me a question, it's hard for me to answer it. i can only say that i have found this orientation towards economic success under the aegis of liberalization to be completely wrong from the point of view of the approach. it must be balanced, and it was not, so it was a weak proposal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all know that these are difficult times for european airports. more and more airlines are barely getting out of the red because of the rising cost of kerosene and other cost increases. low-cost airlines are withdrawing despite millions of dollars in subsidies from smaller airports, and airport shop operators are often insolvent, and other airlines are demanding strict flight bans and the like. all of this is difficult. i think it is doubtful whether opening up the market will lead to greater efficiency in services such as ground handling at airports. in any case, experience has shown that liberalization efforts do not always have the desired effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a uniform manner. i think that a better use of the take-off and landing slots is desirable. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. i doubt it, actually.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i just wanted to make a note of this. it is not your fault that a colleague has already applied for a green card ten times. it's not my problem, either. the problem is that some colleagues, like mr mölzer, who have spoken, are not there any more and are not really interested in the debate. i therefore did not want to wait until it was my turn to be rapporteur again, but wanted to ask mr mölzer a question while he was still spending his rare time in this house. i'm afraid i couldn't do that today because he's not here. (applause from the centre)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i agree with you completely on the content of your ideas on ground handling services. the question is, what are the consequences for you and the s&d group? my question is: when the whole of the european parliament votes tomorrow, will you also reject the legislative proposal, as has already been proposed by the committee?
the commission has already done so. the question is, what do passengers expect from ground handling services? they expect their luggage to arrive at the same time as them, if possible, and that drinks are on board and that they travel safely. passengers are not particularly interested in whether two or three or ten providers provide these services at the airport. the current scheme allows for this flexibility. there must be at least two providers. that means that liberalization is possible. it could be three, it could be five, it could be ten. the airports in europe are taking advantage of these opportunities. some have just two, and others have more. but more providers does not guarantee that the services will work. we have examples like vienna, where two providers guarantee that the punctuality rate is 99.6%. and we have other airports where we have four providers and the passengers are not satisfied with the services offered at all; that is, more services does not automatically mean more quality. so what is my position? the current system allows for liberalization. i do not see the added value of further liberalization, i.e. the requirement that there should be at least three or at least four service providers. with at least two, we have achieved the objective of liberalization, and we see that with airports, it is a functioning system. i therefore call on the house to follow the committee's proposal tomorrow and reject the commission's proposal. i would ask the commissioner to withdraw his proposal as a result of this vote.
the commission has already done so. we have also celebrated 20 years of the single market in the last few days, and i think there are many positive things that have had a positive effect on people in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. this wild forced liberalization is not bringing about any positive change for the workers. that has already been done today. we are not only afraid, but we know that wage dumping is coming, that social cuts are coming. but it is not just the workers who are affected. i cannot find anything positive for another group of europeans, the consumers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised. i cannot see anything positive for the companies either. someone who... (the president cut the speaker off)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i think that the noise report does not need much comment. so you could have saved yourself some time. i am just glad that it has become clear that everyone is committed to the fact that health protection, the health of the trainers at airports and landing strips, is above economic interests. i think we are in agreement on that, and we shall vote on it tomorrow! i would like to say something about ground handling, because i still have time. mr commissioner, your policies and those of your willing helpers, such as mr zasada and mr van dalen, are responsible for the fact that europe's citizens are tired of it, that they are tired of it, that they are tired of the ideological ideas that have already failed all over the world and that are the cause of this crisis. it was neoliberalism that caused the financial crisis. and those ideas are now costing people jobs, costing quality jobs, costing security, costing income. and they're sick of it! and if this continues, we will have the standard of air traffic in the future that the largest airport on a relatively rainy island in the northwest of the european union has: three centimetres of snow, and everything collapses. and nobody wants that, ladies and gentlemen. and that's why i don't understand why you insist on it. and i cannot understand at all that there are colleagues here who would call people who have travelled thousands of kilometres to protest against this and who have shown this policy the red card as irrelevant voters. this is not the way, ladies and gentlemen! these are people who are engaged, and these are relevant voters! and the response must be to blow up this ground transport directive tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen! i'll take that as a yes.
i am grateful to the president-in-office of the council for his statement in the chamber of the european institutions where the most intensive demand for the transaction tax has been made for the longest time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission proposal from last year is a good basis for future work. it must not be watered down, and above all it must not be peppered with exceptions. an exception for derivatives would mean that a significant part of the transactions would be excluded and thus the meaning of the tax would be rendered absurd. after all, derivatives trade is a multiple of stock trading. derivatives are highly speculative unless they are used as collateral. the exemptions for pension funds and for foreign exchange trading also need to be reconsidered, after all the foreign exchange market is the largest financial market in the world, with four trillion us dollars a day, and from an economic point of view alone, an exclusion would be considered extremely pointless. the financial transaction tax helps us to achieve a little bit of distributional equity. the money is there, it just needs to be redistributed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a timely manner and that the main financial products are covered. i therefore ask you, commissioner, and mr louca, as the council's representative, to ensure that those countries which are not yet on board are also brought on board. finally, i would like to congratulate mrs podimata and the shadow rapporteurs on this report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 12 december 2012 at 12.30. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr janusz wojciechowski, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the protection of animals during transport (com (2011) 0700 final - 2012/2031 (ini)) (a7-0331/2012).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. since 1997, we have had rules at european level on the transport and welfare of animals, which were revised in 2005. the current review has shown that while some improvements have been made, we are still far from satisfied. i do not want to endorse the criticisms made by my predecessor, because we want to give you, commissioner borg, the chance to be judged by the actions you are taking now and not by your past. nor in the commission's sphere. we want legislation to guarantee that this animal welfare is respected. one of our proposals is to meet the eight hours on the basis of scientifically sound data. that is to say, for us in the s&d group, too, not only are the more than one million votes of europeans who voted for these eight hours, and not only is the written declaration adopted by a majority in this house and signed by a majority of us s&d members, important, but the question of the feasibility of this regulation also arises. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we have a number of exceptions, which cannot and should not help to water down this legislation. we want to reduce the number of animals transported through europe. we want to reduce the number of transports in general and, above all, we want to reduce transport times. we will only succeed if we have the strictest controls and if we also receive comparable and reliable data from the member states. the data we have at present do not guarantee that. i would urge you, commissioner, to urge the member states, and also to urge them, in the context of your work in this house, to implement the controls and proposals now contained in the report, because only then will animal welfare be guaranteed in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report on the protection of animals during transport is the european parliament's way of concluding an alliance for improved animal welfare in the european union. the protection of animals is primarily a matter for national competence and the starting point for action in the member states is unfortunately very different. of course, there is an urgent need to catch up in many places. i support the call for shorter transport times, especially since animals for slaughter often have to endure long suffering. in some countries there are virtually no transport time restrictions. cattle, sheep and goats are transported to the slaughterhouse for up to 29 hours. that's way too long, of course. at the same time, the question of why must be clarified. unfortunately, in the past, slaughterhouse rules have been created which have forced small and regional slaughterhouses to give up. ideally, an animal should be slaughtered as close to the place of production as possible. we must therefore give greater support to small farming structures. of course, it is necessary to take into account that some regions are difficult to reach, such as the outermost regions or mountainous areas. the quality of transport is also important for animal welfare. the size and equipment standards of the trucks must be appropriate to the load. the animals should have enough space and fresh air. i also support the commission's proposal to establish a uniform system of control. finally, i would like to say that the adoption of animal welfare standards is also a matter of free competition and ultimately serves both producers and consumers.
the commission has already done so. i thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak again. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. in this case, he has succeeded in producing a balanced report on this highly emotional subject. i therefore believe that this report can really do justice to the concern for animal welfare. i would like to remind you that, in the days before christmas, when we are talking about animal welfare, we must remember that animals are living creatures and that they have a right to be protected and should not be given as gifts. on the one hand, this means appealing to all those who wish to give animals away to really think about whether they want to take someone into their family, and perhaps also to think about those animals who are already waiting in the animal shelters to find a family!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank mrs gál for announcing that the epp will be presenting an alternative report. i'm looking forward to it and i'm glad. i think it is possible for me to agree with this report. mrs gál is quite right: the debate on fundamental rights is of course being misused to create ideological conflicts. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that's not the point! it is about the ideological conflict and the abuse of fundamental rights for ideological trench warfare. i want to show you some of the fracturing lines of this trench warfare: there is a fundamental right to freedom of religion and conscience. almost all the proposals - a substantial part of them, i wish to be correct - made in this report are unacceptable to a catholic! if i look at the whole area of reproductive health, sexual orientation, gender identity, this is unacceptable for a catholic! the fundamental right to life, the most fundamental of all, is not even mentioned in this report! if you want to take away the fundamental right to life from millions of unborn citizens of the union, what debate do you have about fundamental rights?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union has recently been awarded the nobel peace prize, not least because it has succeeded in not repeating the mistakes of the past after the great catastrophe of fascism. the recognition of the unconditional validity of human rights was an important consequence. the charter of fundamental rights is an important foundation of the european union. it is of great importance to check again and again whether the rights proclaimed are also reality-tested. the rapporteur points out that fundamental rights are not respected in all areas and in all member states. people continue to be discriminated against on the grounds of their origin, gender, religion, sexual orientation or physical or mental disability. people still lack adequate access to education and social systems on the basis of such discrimination. the freedom of the individual remains restricted and the personal data of citizens are not protected in the best possible way. individual ethnic groups, especially the roma, are increasingly becoming victims of threats and violence. all these facts are presented by the rapporteur in a very clear and balanced way. i therefore ask you not to make this a party issue, to put aside polemics and to vote for this report across the group lines!
the commission has already done so. i very much regret that this so-called human rights debate is not being used to carry out actual checks, nor is the report on where human rights are respected and where they are not respected. but what is happening is the same as every year: this report, this debate, is being used to launch an ideological debate, a socio-political debate and an attempt to interfere with the subsidiary rights of the member states. for example, the report discusses the property implications of registered homosexual partnerships - clearly a subsidiary issue, the financing of family planning - clearly a subsidiary issue, or you criticize some particular member states in the context of the discussion on reproductive rights, and you discuss the right to vote of non-eu citizens - also a subsidiary issue. the european parliament has been asked to vote on the motion for a resolution on human rights in the european union. i therefore invite everyone to support the motion for a resolution tabled by mr kinga gál, the motion for a resolution tabled by the european people's party, in the interest of the debate on human rights.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not president barroso and president van rompuy delivered excellent speeches at the nobel prize ceremony, particularly on the past of the european union. and i wonder, mr president barroso, why you have not carried forward the visions you have outlined there? why do you think a technocratic staged plan can solve today's crisis? what a difference between what we heard on monday and perhaps this morning and what you are presenting to us! but it's also about the spirit in which this roadmap was written - this blueprint. and when i read yesterday in the financial times olli rehn, he said: austerity works for whom? for the millions of unemployed, for the millions of young unemployed, for the firms that have no demand and therefore go bankrupt? it cannot be true that the commission's complacency is the reason for this. and even henry kissinger - no leftist at all - recently said that if this policy is continued, the union is in danger of breaking up. there is nothing in this blueprint of a social union; the european union is not a political union, it is an economic union, it is a social union, it is nothing! and, mr president barroso, you have spoken again today about social tasks. why is this not in this important commission document? you mentioned the thyssen report. but much of what is in the thyssen report, which is the majority opinion in this parliament, is not in the blueprint that you have presented! i am not talking about the council's conclusions, which are much worse. or if you take the report by pervenche berès, the financial crisis report: also adopted by a large majority. yes, you mentioned the youth guarantee. i'm all for that and i welcome it. but unfortunately it comes at a time when many in the council feel that there is already too much money in the european social fund and we can even cut it. our view as social democrats is not less money for the european social fund, but more money for the european social fund to solve the problems. it is necessary. (applause from the centre) and as far as economic union is concerned, there are two other things which are particularly important. you mentioned it a little bit: investments. we need investment, even with budgetary austerity, to get out of the crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a question of overcoming the legal obstacles to a viable debt-repayment fund. and both of those things -- and i'll say this right now -- are also important for the two-pack. because, as minister mavroyiannis said, we want the two-pack. but we also want to make clear statements on debt relief and on investment for europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we welcome that, of course. but if you talk about fiscal capacity and the eurozone budget at the same time, i want a clear commitment from the commission and the council that any budget, including a eurozone budget, can only be decided with the european parliament's participation, and not without the european parliament. we need that clear commitment from you. and we need something on tax policy, of course. you have presented an approach today - i welcome that. but the great differences in tax policy between the individual member states are distorting and tearing the european union apart and are also endangering the community. i do not understand why the commission and the president of the commission agree that we should in future work on individual contracts between the commission and individual countries on certain economic matters. they are the champions of the community method and must be the champions of the community method, and not contribute to the disintegration of the european union into individual treaties between the commission and individual member states. that's not possible for us. (applause from the centre) we are in favour of increased and monitored coordination of fiscal policy, but we also need to encourage structural investment. yes, we are in favour of a banking union with common liability rules. and i hope the council will not delay this any longer. we are for greater social and fiscal justice and against a divide between rich and poor. but we are also in favour of coordinated debt relief and low interest rates so that countries from greece to portugal and ireland to spain can get out of their debt crisis. we are in favour of a european-wide competition and industrial policy and not of a system whereby individual countries compete against each other. if you would take this seriously, if you would really listen to parliament and not just give lip service, we would get a better result. i believe that what is at stake, and in particular the council conclusions, are not worth the paper. it is not possible that we make these solemn promises on monday, that we repeat them in this parliament today, and then on friday the council adopts a thin, meaningless document on the future of europe! we need visions again. we have worked it out in this parliament, despite all the differences between the various groups. if you worked with parliament to develop visions for europe, you could succeed. i beg you to start again, together with us! (applause from the centre)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i think we do not need a coup, but we do need to do something about the many young people who are unemployed. i would like to ask mrs harms: do you see any approaches in the 2013 budget or in the budgetary framework up to 2020 that the heads of state or government here are planning to give young people a chance at jobs again and so that europe can return to double-digit growth?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if we have understood the nobel peace prize correctly, then the summit at the end of this week should send three signals. first, we will put an end to unanimity, to decisions taken behind closed doors and without democratic legitimacy. we are saying no to the strengthening of intergovernmentalism and yes to the community method and a budget which will enable the european union to act and shape its own future. secondly, the council opens the door to the preparation of a convention on the future of europe involving all parliaments and citizens. and thirdly, the vice-president of the commission, olli rehn, who is also the monetary commissioner, will become the president of the eurozone. thank you very much. we're looking forward to it.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the nobel peace prize recognises all the achievements of the european union's largest project to date. it is also an incentive not to jeopardize peace on the european continent under any circumstances. in fact, this peace is threatened more than ever by the great difficulties and challenges caused by the initial banking crisis, which has developed into an economic and now structural crisis, in many ways: we have in almost all member states an increasing number of unemployed people, especially young people, and also a considerable number of people living in some of the most abject poverty. i think budgetary surveillance is essential in all member states it seems to be a fashion to work in deficit. it is high time that the two-pack should be followed by action as soon as possible. the current development of the eu budget for 2013 puts the own resources question out of the question and calls for immediate action by all. in this sense, please come to practical steps and results at the next summit.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for this committee report, which rejected the commission proposal, and i would have welcomed it if we had voted today on the whole proposal, rejecting it, simply because it is the expression of a total liberalisation mania. i am different from my predecessor. the quality of our airports is not improved by this proposal and by the corresponding pressure of liberalisation and market pressure. on the contrary, it is deteriorating. and this in a high-security area, a high-security critical area, like airport security. i really think that's crazy. and it's also socially and politically nonsensical. airports rely on the acceptance of local residents and local politicians in their immediate surroundings. if we lose jobs there because we bring in other jobs or other workers, so to speak, because of market pressures, then this acceptance of airports will no longer exist.
in writing. − postponing the negotiations to next year in the event of a failure to reach agreement on the budget would have impeded the eu's work. moreover, a blockade would probably have resulted in no agreement on the 2012 amending budget with devastating consequences. the commission has not been able to meet commitments already entered into by member states. the erasmus programme, for example, would have been affected. that is why i voted in favour of the proposal for the 2013 budget. however, the solution we have found is far from ideal: the 2013 budget represents a reduction of 2,15% in payment appropriations compared to 2012. i cannot support this austerity policy. it is in times of crisis that public investment in growth, employment, education and research is needed. it is often forgotten that the eu budget flows back to the member states in the form of programmes and grants. a smaller eu budget means a reduction in important union activities. the fundamental rights agency will also have fewer resources. we should be thinking more about long-term projects for the future rather than short-term austerity at any cost.
in writing. - it is correct that the compromise now negotiated between the council, parliament and the commission represents an improvement on the commission's original budget proposal. however, the 2013 eu budget will be increased by more than 2% again compared to the current year. in view of the tight budgetary situation in the vast majority of member states and the repeated negative report by the eu court of auditors on the misuse of billions of eu funds, i consider this increase to be unjustifiable and unacceptable. the euro crisis not only shows us very clearly that the increasing centralisation of powers in brussels is inefficient, harmful and expensive, it reminds us once again to undergo a fundamental reform of the eu structure, which will result in the renationalisation of many areas and the eu managing only those areas, such as transport or the environment, which should remain at eu level. the report was therefore rejected on grounds of principle.
in writing. − this budget vote is certainly a compromise – a compromise which on the one hand avoided further costs and expenses and is therefore less expensive than ‘no solution’, on the other hand it makes us all concerned due to the implied facts and figures as we have been explained before today’s vote. the eu’s budget is actually an investment budget and there is no room for a deficit – so we have to rely on the promises of the council and the commission.
in writing. − on 19 october 2012, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of italy to assist workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation to reintegrate into the labour market. this is the fifteenth application to be examined under the 2012 budget; it concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 658 495 from the egf for italy. it concerns 512 redundancies during the nine-month reference period from 28 february to 28 november 2011 in 10 enterprises classified in nace rev. 2 division 30 (other vehicle manufacturing) the commission has assessed that the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and has recommended that the budgetary authority approve the application. i therefore voted in favour of the report in solidarity with the workers who have been made redundant.
in writing. - the egf is designed to provide additional support to workers who suffer from the effects of globalisation and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the request from italy (emilia-romagna region) was examined and concerns 512 redundancies. the employment situation of this region of italy has deteriorated following a rapid decline in the total production of two-wheel motor vehicles and the level of exports since 2008. the application met all the requirements and the report was therefore approved.
in writing. - the egf is designed to provide additional support to workers who suffer from the effects of globalisation and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the request from sweden has been examined and concerns 3 784 redundancies. the employment situation in sweden has deteriorated considerably since the bankruptcy of the automobile company. the application met all the requirements and the report was therefore approved.
in writing. - the egf is designed to provide additional support to workers who suffer from the effects of globalisation and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the spanish request was examined and concerns 1 106 redundancies. the employment situation in spain has deteriorated considerably; more than 180 000 jobs have been lost since 2009 and another 60 000 jobs (in the metal sector) in 2010. the application met all the requirements and the report was therefore approved.
in writing. - the egf is designed to provide additional support to workers who suffer from the effects of globalisation and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the danish request has been examined and concerns 303 redundancies. the employment situation in denmark deteriorated from 2009 onwards and in 2011 it was decided to close another company (electrical engineering). the application met all the requirements and the report was therefore approved.
in writing. - the egf is designed to provide additional support to workers who suffer from the effects of globalisation and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the request from romania has been examined and concerns 1 904 redundancies. the employment situation in romania has deteriorated significantly since 2009 the application met all the requirements and the report was therefore approved.
in writing. − on 19 october 2012, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of austria to assist workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation to reintegrate into the labour market. this is the 19th application to be examined under the 2012 budget; it concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 5 200 650 from the egf for austria. the request concerns 1 050 redundancies in 105 enterprises during the reference period from 1 april 2011 to 15 december 2011. in response to the negative effects of the crisis and in order to consolidate the state budget until 2013, the newly elected styrian government decided in 2010 to reduce the total state expenditure by 25% over the two-year period 2011/2012 (compared to the 2010 budget). the budget cuts concerned the social services sector and thus also contractually agreed obligatory services of the state of styria for youth welfare and assistance to the handicapped. the commission has assessed that the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and has recommended that the budgetary authority approve the application. i therefore voted in favour of the report in support of the workers made redundant.
in writing. - the egf is designed to provide additional support to workers who suffer from the effects of globalisation and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the request from austria (styria region) was examined and concerns 1050 redundancies. the redundancies were an unforeseen decision of the styrian state government (early 2011) which concerned the reduction of public funds for disabled welfare and youth work. the application met all the requirements and the report was therefore approved.
in writing. - the egf is designed to provide additional support to workers who suffer from the effects of globalisation and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the request from finland has been examined and concerns 1 000 redundancies. the employment situation in finland has deteriorated since 2012 due to the decision to relocate the company's tasks to non-european countries. the application met all the requirements and the report was therefore approved.
in writing. - crime is increasingly becoming an intra-european problem. the mafia structures in some eastern countries, which have been facilitated by the opening of the borders, also operate in the western countries of the eu, and this has also significantly reduced the subjective sense of security of eu citizens. gang crime is on the rise in many eu countries. but without the right instruments, it is not easy to measure crime and the origin of the perpetrators and victims across borders. however, individual member states should be able to rely on representative figures which can also be used in crime prevention. i did not vote for the report because i believe that the estimated cost of eur 12 000 000 is too high for an instrument whose suitability is not sufficiently guaranteed.
in writing. - i vote against the report and ask the commission to withdraw the proposal. the 1996 directive has already given us clear evidence that this type of liberalisation in the ground transport sector leads to wage dumping, a massive deterioration in the situation of the employed and no improvement in the quality of the services. commissioner kallas has to prove to me that liberalization would bring more benefits than disadvantages here - until then i will vote against further liberalization again and again.
in writing. the report on the ground handling regulation at airports is in favour of greater liberalisation at airports. what may sound good at first sight, since one would expect more competition and, in the end, perhaps better services for passengers, turns out to be a big fallacy. this regulation would allow dumping providers to drive out experienced companies with well-trained staff. this would not only be bad for companies that rely on good training of employees, it would mean that many skilled workers would lose their jobs. finally, it would also be detrimental to the safety of all passengers. the report does mention the security aspect, but it does not explain conclusively why the liberalisation efforts will automatically guarantee more security. i therefore rejected the regulation and voted in favour of referring the report back to the committee responsible.
in writing. − the current system for allocating slots at airports in the european union does not seem to work optimally for airports with limited capacity. the balance between capacity and demand for air transport must take account of the different sectors, from long-haul flights to regional connections and cargo transport. optimal use of the take-off and landing time slots would be desirable. it is doubtful whether the new eu proposals will actually lead to trade in and better use of slots. the fear is that a secondary market for niche newspapers is developing. the new rules are unlikely to have the same impact on all types of airport, from low-cost to hub to mixed-freight. it is doubtful whether the new system will not cause problems during peak traffic hours, for example. i am not entirely convinced of the new system, so i abstained.
in writing. - it is clear that aircraft have become quieter in recent years. so much has been done in terms of noise, although of course the constant take-off and landing of flights still generates a lot of noise, which particularly affects the other pilots. noise-reducing measures such as road-laying are certainly to be welcomed in this context, as are measures in the area of land-use planning. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − statistical data are considered to be crucial in economic and financial policy. the aim is to make monetary policy decisions accessible to the public and to explain them. in addition, when decisions are based on statistical data, the credibility of the institutions is enhanced. it could therefore be said that statistics are primarily used for communication with outsiders. inaccurate and/or distorted statistics have led to a loss of confidence in financial markets. this experience has led to the need to regulate statistical offices more strictly within the eu and, above all, to monitor compliance with the regulations. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. i think that there are not yet sufficient appropriate control mechanisms and the infrastructure to enable citizens to access is not yet sufficient, so i abstained.
in writing. − statistics are the cornerstones of policy-making and build confidence. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's statistics are not distorted. the national statistical offices differ. the commission must therefore clearly define the provisions to support the national offices and a standardised form must be introduced. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − after eu countries failed to agree on a common line in the council of ministers on an eu-wide tax on financial transactions, a group of 11 countries proposed a partial introduction of the tax. in principle, it is a question of speculators who make huge sums from opaque transactions making a fair solidarity contribution. after the eu-wide introduction of the financial transaction tax failed to meet british resistance, it is up to a small group to come together to set a good example. however, the money earned from this must not be used for the eu budget but must remain in the member states. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. − first of all, i would like to recall that the idea of a financial transaction tax was first presented politically by the bzö and that in austria there was already a unanimous decision of all parliamentary parties in 2008 for the introduction of such a speculator tax. that is why i voted today in favour of the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision authorizing enhanced cooperation in the field of financial transaction taxation, but with one important reservation! in enhanced cooperation, it is important to ensure that the revenues from the financial transaction tax are not used to bail out failing states such as greece and ailing banks, but are used exclusively to reduce the net contributors' contributions to the eu budget by a percentage. austria's payments to the eu must be proportionally reduced to the extent that the eu is profiting from additional revenue from the financial transaction tax. in addition, it is necessary to ensure that the financial transaction tax is implemented as part of a genuine governance and control instrument for the entire financial sector. finally, the final condition is to ensure the involvement of all eu countries, in particular the uk and the city of london.
in writing. − the introduction of a common financial transaction tax system reflects a harmonised european financial market. this will speed up trade, promote the single market and prevent distortions of competition between different economic players. this will, on the contrary, make the european financial market work efficiently (additional and unnecessary financial transactions could be prevented or excluded). the common financial transaction tax can be considered as a 'financial anchor'. all eu member states and third countries should take advantage of this 'civil' opportunity to introduce a financial instrument that could help europe in its fight against the crisis by generating income.
in writing. − since january 2007, transport of animals within the eu has been subject to a strict directive. however, irregularities are still being discovered at regular intervals which do not comply with the directive in any way. these include very often the conditions faced by animals coming from outside the eu, such as long waiting times at the eu's external borders or long transport routes. in march 2012, a majority of meps signed a declaration calling for a limit on transport to a maximum of eight hours. i voted for the report because i agree with the rapporteur that the transport of meat and animal products would be far more economical than the transport of live animals. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of animals during transport. the labelling of meat and its processing would also be made easier and more clear.
in writing. the west, which likes to play the guardian of democracy and human rights, is not without faults. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and here too, freedom of expression is constantly under threat and pressure is exerted on the media. and the eu itself intervenes when it is not in agreement with the will of the electorate. this has been seen in governments with parties that are not in favour of the eu establishment, but also in votes on eu treaties, which are simply repeated over and over again until the desired result is achieved. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of personal data. and the eu itself is not sufficiently democratically legitimized in its construction. i have voted against the report on these grounds.
in writing. - i am deeply shocked by the ideological abuse in the debate on fundamental rights. it is right to raise the issue of fundamental rights in political debate, but it is also shameful that this report abuses fundamental rights and has to be used to justify ideologies that are hostile to them. the following contradiction is striking in mrs beňová's report: the fundamental right to freedom of religion and conscience is emphasised, but at the same time fundamental christian values are betrayed, and paragraph 53 of the report even calls for the abolition of allegedly 'excessive exceptions for religions from equality and non-discrimination laws'. the report is totally unacceptable to catholics, especially in relation to sexual orientation and reproductive health. why should sexual orientation justify special legal treatment? reproductive health is a euphemism for easier access to abortion. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. the right to life is the most fundamental human right, without which all other rights are meaningless. therefore, if paragraph 79 even calls for 'safe access to legal abortion' in all member states, then the most fundamental human right, the fundamental right to life, is openly mocked. i reject the report on the basis of my convictions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i come from a town in austria where, about a year ago, my grandfather witnessed the murder of workers who were fighting for their freedom by austro-fascists with the help of the army. the leader of these workers has been hanged, and his last word, the word freedom, has been strangled by the hangman's noose. if there had been something like the european union, somewhere else, at that time, that would have made sure that human rights were respected not only in this body, but elsewhere, maybe this would not have happened. and that is why, certainly, our first task, now that we have overcome this hatred, this bitterness, this violence within the european union - in all the political conflicts that there are - is to ensure, also outside our own competence, that human rights are respected everywhere in the world, as far as we can. and i think this report, mr rapporteur, is pointing in a very, very good direction. it is important - and i have tried to insert this into the report with my proposals - that we act in a uniform way on these issues. it is important that we also ensure that those who work for human rights are empowered by us, and the award of the sakharov prize today was a contribution to this. and it's also important that we use our strength to enforce human rights, and that's certainly our economic strength as well. i am glad that since the european parliament is co-deciding on trade policy, trade policy is also being used as a human rights policy. we have seen in the central american agreements and in the agreements with colombia and peru that the first steps in this direction are working - even if not everything is working as we would like. ladies and gentlemen, our first task is to learn from our history, to learn from what people have experienced in our country, and to ensure that such things do not happen again in the future, as far as we can. dear colleagues, i am very happy that a friend of mine is now responsible for this job. i've known him for quite a long time and i know he's the right man here to do the job. - i'm not going to die.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not mr dartmouth, that is quite an interesting point to make, and you must excuse me for attacking you now, because you are one of the few in your group who actually cooperates in this house. the others don't. but still, how can you compare a warrant for the arrest of criminals with torture, with murder, with rape and other things that are happening around the world, with mass murder? it's not like any reasonable person would compare the two. how is that, mr. dartmouth? i just don't understand it. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. human rights must be at the heart of relations with third countries and relevant clauses should be extended to all agreements with third countries. the eu has a special duty to the situation of christians, especially now, after the so-called arab spring. in egypt, the rise of islamic forces has had dramatic consequences for the copts. another important point is the protection of union citizens in third countries. the austrian doctor dr adelsmayr, for example, was denied a fair trial in dubai, sentenced to life imprisonment and now de facto cannot move freely within the union because he is afraid of extradition. the eu should take a coordinated approach in such cases: if an eu citizen is denied a fair trial under the convention on human rights, then no member state should extradite him. mrs ashton's response to this was rather disappointing to the point of being meaningless, but it is probably more important and better and more media-friendly to advocate for the russian group pussy riot than for the austrian doctor dr adelsmayr.
rapporteur. − mr president, first of all i want to thank all my colleagues with whom i was able to work on this report, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, because i think there was very good cooperation. perhaps we did not start at the same starting point, but in the end i think we got a very good and very broadly supported report. i confess that i that i thought i could have a report which was critical but pragmatic, but the developments in russia changed the direction of my report because on many issues, especially on human rights issues, i had to be more critical than i was at the beginning. it is not that i am more critical but that the developments in russia have been going in the wrong direction. perhaps it is a good sign, and good symbolically, that we discussed this today when the sakharov prize was handed over and during the human rights discussion, because human rights issues are the most delicate issues concerning russia. the development of democracy is not going in the right direction; it is going in the wrong direction. if we look at the elections they had, there were many irregularities, faults and mistakes at least. many speak of the elections not being free and fair in russia, which i find deplorable. everybody says that putin would have won anyway. so if he was going to win anyway, why then did he not allow real free and fair elections? ngo laws are impeding many ngos from being active. if ngos get money from foreign countries then they are agents of foreign interests, as if democracy and civil liberties were a foreign, and not a russian interest. therefore many russian institutions are not very keen to support some of these ngos in order not to be in touch with ngos which are agents of foreign interest. regarding the pussy riot case, we may not agree with pussy riot’s activities, but the way in which it was handled showed that the justice system is not fair. regarding the recent magnitsky report, i fully endorse what the united states congress decided on in this case. i was able to speak with senator cardin who was very active on this issue years ago, and i have supported him, because it is not acceptable that people who are involved in criminal activities are able to benefit from decisions made by the european union, for example on the visa issue. i think these are many elements where we see negative developments. the ban on homosexual propaganda, as it is called, which now exists in some regions and is being proposed as a federal law, is again a violation of human rights issues. it is unbelievable that, step by step, again and again, russian legislative activities are heading in that direction. we are now having a human rights dialogue but, let us be honest, it is not very effective because very often the ministries concerned – the ministries of the interior and justice – are not part of the human rights dialogue, and then russia starts to criticise the european union for deficiencies. yes they should do this, but the difference is that, although we criticise russia, we also criticise our internal deficiencies. if russia did the same, they could criticise us, but then they should also criticise development in russia itself. of course, syria is the case where disrespect for human rights is most visible. unfortunately, no cooperation has been possible up to now. we can say that trade is another issue on which we can cooperate. that is all very well, but as commissioner de gucht said very recently, there are big problems. russia joined, but then they decided on several laws that were not in compliance with what is necessary under wto rules. so it is very hard to have a very pragmatic approach. nevertheless, i think we should try to find cooperation with russia where it is possible. i am also absolutely in favour of visa liberalisation, because this is not for the functionaries but it is especially for the citizens. therefore, to end my short speech, let us be pragmatic but at the same time strict on human rights and on the violation of the wto, because partnership can only be an honest partnership and not a dishonest one. if we want to be honest we have to fight for human rights everywhere, including in russia.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, i would like to ask mr schulz how he thinks russia's accession to the wto will affect relations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the recent conviction of russia by the european court of human rights for torture and the recent raids on opposition figures once again show that there is a massive russian catch-up in terms of human rights and democracy. this is hardly surprising, given 70 years of communism and a totalitarian past. the announced protests are now expected to mobilize even fewer people than the demonstrations in september. however, the protest movement has already influenced kremlin policy. recent examples include the new assembly law and the anti-corruption campaign. if even high-ranking corrupt officials now face substantial penalties, it seems that much has already been done. but we should not always be the master of democracy and human rights in our negotiations with russia.
rapporteur. − mr president, colleagues, thank you very much for the debate and, commissioner, thank you very much for your statement. it was an honour for me as rapporteur to follow you. i think what you expressed is very realistic. i think we should not punish the citizens of russia for what we have to criticise the regime and government for; therefore visa liberalisation and visa facilitation are important issues and i wish you much success. on what ms tzavela said about students, i think the exchange of people is very important because, if you look at the russian media and see putin acting, you think that this is the world. well, it is their world but it is not perhaps the world as it should be. therefore it is very important to have these kinds of exchanges, and let us not punish the citizens for their government’s mistakes. secondly, also to mr schulz – yes he is still here – let us be honest, we have to be strong in our negotiations. when i heard these many elements of human rights issues mentioned, it is because the development is going in the wrong direction. if it were going in the right direction, improving the situation, i would have not mentioned so many of the mistakes. however, i did not mention all of them. there has recently been another abduction in ukraine. things which we thought were in the past and not happening today are happening, but we can only be strong. the last point on energy was also mentioned by some colleagues. south stream is in a good position today because we were very weak in defending, for example, nabucco or other lines. our weakness very often gives russia strength; our weakness very often gives gazprom strength, because we are not united on many of these positions. to be strong and to criticise russia does not mean not to have an agreement with russia. we want to have it; we will fight for it. the commission does a very good job on that, but we should be very clear on what our interests are. russia knows how to defend its interests; we do not always know how to defend ours. in the case of russia we should be strong in order to finally have a good agreement with russia.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fact that president morsi, who first put himself above the judges, now wants to enforce a controversial constitution at any cost, can probably only be interpreted as the first step towards an islamic dictatorship. the revolution has failed in that, in the past two years, there has been no agreement on the role of religion or on the question of reorganizing the country. what is certain is that the former hope of the arab legion is sitting on a powder keg of ideological divisions, a deeply divided society, legal chaos and economic decline. it is also clear that the aim of abolishing the separation of powers is certainly contrary to democratic principles and that too little is being done to address people's concerns, such as rising unemployment. to prevent a civil war, it is certainly not enough to denigrate the protesters as anti-sharia christians and mubarak supporters. the eu's contribution to the fight against terrorism is not limited to the fight against terrorism, but also includes the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the crucial question for us, when we assess the elections of 28 october, is whether we are dealing with a parliament that actually reflects the will of the ukrainian people or not. and i think that, despite all the shortcomings that we may have noted - how we assess them is another matter - we can say that, in principle, this parliament is in line with the will of the ukrainian people. not even the most vocal critics of this election will be able to prove otherwise. all the exit polls also predicted the election outcome pretty accurately, and then they found it. that means that we are dealing with a parliament that is based on legitimacy and legality. the five constituencies where irregularities were found will also have their own by-elections, which will also be monitored internationally. we must also recognise that ukraine has a will to modernise - driven not only by the population but also by the government - that ukrainians have a will to improve the rule of law, particularly in the area of criminal procedure, and that they are making serious efforts to fight corruption. and they are even further along and more committed than some eu countries! i wish i had said that clearly to the balkans! it is therefore sensible and in the interests of europe to push this association agreement forward and not to put undue pressure on ukraine, because it is not helping anyone there. and if you keep bringing up the name of tymoshenko, whenever you talk to ukrainians, you will find that they have very different concerns from mrs tymoshenko. we should have our interest in the association agreement and the development of ukraine as a democratic country in mind!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the work of the fundamental rights agency should be unquestioned. without them, it would be difficult to evaluate the rights enshrined in the charter and other binding documents. it also has the function of continually calling attention to and respecting fundamental rights. human rights are indivisible and universal. the people of europe need to be assured that they can rely on it in all member states and in all situations of life, without prejudice to their individual characteristics. the multiannual framework for the fundamental rights agency is therefore welcome in principle, because it is necessary. it is indeed surprising that the council has not followed the commission's proposal to include judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the area of the agency, as would be the case under the lisbon treaty. the council considers that criminal matters are explicitly excluded from the scope of its activities. this leaves the agency without the possibility of bringing its own prosecutions in such important areas as the respect of human rights in criminal prosecutions, in court proceedings and in the execution of sentences. respect for human rights must be applied to all law enforcement authorities, including the police and the judiciary, and in particular the protection of personal data must be guaranteed in this context. the protection of personal data is one of the fundamental rights issues of the 21st century.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia was already an agency for fundamental rights when it was established. the council of europe and the osce are also responsible for human rights. it is certainly incomprehensible to the taxpayer today that the special representative for human rights and the council of europe commissioner for human rights, for example, appointed in the summer of 2012, are supposed to do exactly the same job. this duplicity makes it difficult for taxpayers to understand, at a time when austerity packages are being hammered across europe, why the fundamental rights agency has a budget of €20 million in 2012 alone, especially since this eu body, contrary to its name, is less concerned with protecting fundamental rights than with politically correct spying on critical citizens and lobbying for third world immigrants and obscure marginalised groups. i therefore believe that it is high time that not only the subsidy jungle of the european union but also that of the various eu agencies be explored. this includes in particular the eu agency for fundamental rights, which should be reviewed for its usefulness. the eu's ever-growing financial needs, which are being created by the assumption of new responsibilities and the creation of questionable eu institutions, must finally be curbed, especially in times of crisis.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. madam vice-president, you said that the work of the human rights agency was in danger because the council did not adopt the work programme in time. i believe that the work of the agency is rather endangered by the fact that there are serious shortcomings in the management of this agency. i would just point out that in connection with the discharge decision the european parliament has strongly urged the agency to improve the planning of budget implementation after there was a transfer of almost 7 million and there were extremely serious problems in the recruitment procedures. only 59 of the 72 posts needed could be filled. the budgetary development of this agency is of particular interest, as is the development of the staff of the agency over the years. the budget has increased by 117% in 4 years to 20 million at present, by over 17% from 2009 to 2010 alone. i think it is particularly dramatic that of this budget of 20 million, two thirds is spent on administrative expenditure and only one third is used for operational tasks. and if you look at the human resources development, the staff in this agency has tripled in four years. i therefore urge the commission - and i also recommend it - to examine the agency closely for efficiency, to examine the budget, the budgetary management and also to control the personnel management before any further decisions are taken on the annual planning and the budget.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is in the process of negotiating its strategy for 2020. the employment and growth pact is the key challenge here. do you think that the horizon 2020 and cosme programmes, i.e. the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises, can promote the self-employment of young women and migrants in particular, and that the council will give priority to this, and that this will then also be reflected in the budget?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. stoa, the european parliament's committee on science and technology options, has identified four priorities that need to be given greater consideration in legislation and in the direction of the european union: what are the technological options in the field of mobility? a programme could be connecting europe, digitisation: what can we do in this area? but also the european institute of technology: how can we spread knowledge better in europe? we know that today in the day-to-day operation of schools, kindergartens, universities, knowledge is often presented that is 25 years old. how do we connect here? how can we promote resources in europe, apart from mobility? how can we improve the value chain from the mines to the final product, and how can we create rationalization and thus new jobs in europe? how can the expansion of the internet take place? and finally, how can we keep people in europe healthy? the perfect life programme, which was presented today, can make a significant contribution to this.
in writing. − the scope of the so-called fundamental rights agency should not be extended, but rather this eu body should be closed. finally, the council of europe and the osce are also responsible for the protection of human rights. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the fundamental rights directive. the fundamental rights agency, contrary to its name, has very little to do with the protection of fundamental rights. the main task of this body is the politically correct spying on citizens who express their legitimate dissatisfaction with the unrestricted mass immigration to europe. and another area of activity of the supposed defenders of fundamental rights is lobbying for marginalized groups such as homosexuals. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission is proposing to relax asylum and immigration laws. because this is clearly contrary to the interests of the european peoples, there is another reason for the rapid closure of the eu agency for fundamental rights. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − the tightening of the written declaration guidelines is unfounded, unnecessary and further demonstrates the eu establishment's desire to suppress initiatives from individual meps or a small group. it is not otherwise that the very issue of the written declarations, which was also taken up by many citizens of the union and for whose support there was always a massive campaign on the spot or by e-mail, is now almost impossible to explain. whereas previously it was possible for each member to put a subject he considered particularly important to the fore by means of a written statement, now at least ten members from three political groups are required. this is in complete contradiction to the original purpose of the instrument, which was precisely to promote individual activities. the groups have every opportunity. all the alibis, such as the european citizens' initiative or the recent fuss about the nobel prize for the eu, which is intended to make citizens feel that they have a say, cannot hide the true approach of the eurocrats, who try to do everything in the smallest possible circle behind closed doors. i therefore naturally voted against this undemocratic approach.
in writing. - the european union is too happy to point the moral finger at other countries, and has shortcomings in human rights itself. how non-violent and respectful of human rights has the eu been in relation to the secret cia prisons and raids? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action against terrorism, and that it is able to take action against terrorism. there is also a lot of work to be done in many eu countries on minorities. the european union has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. i have rejected the present report on these grounds.
in writing. − the recent conviction of russia by the european court of human rights for torture and the recent raids on opposition figures once again demonstrate russia's need to catch up on human rights and democracy. this is hardly surprising, given the 70 years of communist past that are yet to be worked out. the west, which likes to play the guardian of democracy and human rights, is not without its faults. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and here too, freedom of expression is constantly under threat and pressure is exerted on the media. the eu should not presume to be the world's leading authority on these issues, especially when negotiating with moscow. that is why i have rejected this report.
in writing. − israel has responded to the recent un general assembly resolution on the upgrading of the status of the palestinians by announcing that it will build 3,000 more homes in east jerusalem and the west bank. the planned construction in area e1 would extend deep into palestinian territory and de facto divide it into northern and southern parts. the plans are particularly delicate because the palestinians fear being cut off from east jerusalem, which they want to make their capital in a bid for a two-state solution. the creation of a viable, coherent and sovereign palestinian state is also at risk. the joint resolution, which was co-sponsored by all parliament's political groups, calls, inter alia, for the israeli government's decision to withhold usd 100 million of palestinian tax revenues at the expense of the palestinian authority budget to be repealed, and for the eu and its member states to fully and effectively implement the existing eu legislation and the existing bilateral treaties between the eu and israel. i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that it is very balanced and takes account of the interests of both the israelis and the palestinians.
in writing. - despite all the justified criticism, it must be borne in mind that ukraine is in a difficult situation. the country is still searching for its identity. the european union is also committed to the development of the democratic process in ukraine, and the eu is also committed to the development of the democratic process in ukraine. the eu must therefore avoid unnecessarily straining relations with kiev. to play the role of democracy teacher or even to wave the sanctions ball now would not achieve anything except that ukraine would turn away from the eu and towards russia. for these reasons i rejected the proposal.
in writing. − the european union is still struggling with the effects of the economic crisis, which at present shows no sign of ending. the fear is that states will continue to need more and more money to survive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the countries in difficulty. the european union has a long history of supporting the democratic process, and the european parliament has a long history of supporting the democratic process. i voted against the resolution because i believe that the european union must first solve its existing problems before it makes another country a candidate country. the albanian economy is also far from ready for possible eu accession in a few years' time.
in writing. the steel industry is in a veritable crisis, as the figures show. demand is falling sharply, which has a dramatic effect on the steel labour market figures. in 1970, there were one million people employed in the steel industry in the eu, but today there are only 369 000. this has a further impact on the workforce in downstream industries. it is also clear that more and more cheap steel is being imported into europe from countries such as russia, china and turkey. in hardly any other region in the world are the environmental constraints on steel production as high as in the eu, making it increasingly difficult for companies to compete in the global market. i voted in favour of the resolution because i share the view that the eu must pay greater attention to industrial policy. this is the only way to ensure the long-term competitiveness of european industry on the world market.
in writing. the steel industry was the backbone of european industrial society for over a century. the prosperity of entire regions depended on the prosperity of this sector. i represent a constituency in the region around linz in upper austria where, contrary to the general trend, this sector has been expanded and developed. this link can be seen in its effects on the economy and employment. it is not for me to speculate on why the steel sector has increasingly moved away from europe over the last two decades. the fact is, however, that the deindustrialisation of europe has had serious consequences for the competitiveness of some member states and has impaired their macroeconomic controls. it is necessary to consider whether it is really sensible to neglect the industrial production sector in the course of the progressive globalization. the priority must be to modernise this sector in a sustainable way. the current crisis teaches us that we need more real economy and a turn to the manufacturing sector. the reindustrialisation of europe would undoubtedly improve the competitiveness of the continent. the steel industry has a key role to play in this. the commission's decision to adopt a european steel action plan is therefore to be welcomed. it is important to implement the necessary measures quickly and without delay, taking account in particular of the economic, regional and social implications.
