on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr martin, on behalf of my group and myself, i would like to congratulate you on your election, but also congratulate the other candidates who have stood for election. i should like to add that i appreciated your first speech, mr president, although it began with a somewhat social democratic tone, by the end it was clear that it was really the president who was speaking. so i have to say, you're getting used to the new role you're playing very quickly. but let me first address, mr president, your predecessor, jerzy buzek, with whom i worked for many years in the european council. we can both testify that the climate here in the european parliament is much better than that which prevails in the european council. i must say, jerzy, that you have done a remarkable job in this parliament. you have made sure that we have adapted to the lisbon treaty, which had to be implemented. you have pursued, together with parliament, all the policies necessary to combat the crisis. i really liked the way we were able to cooperate with you, as did all the other presidents of the conference of presidents. thank you very much, again, for all the work you have done for this parliament. (applause) i would like to thank mr president, during the whole campaign for the presidency of parliament, i heard many colleagues say to me: 'yes, what we need is a neutral presidency. what we need is a president who doesn't vote. what we need is a president who has no opinion". i have to tell you, this thesis surprised me. i am rather on the side of those who think that we need a president who has an opinion and who is not neutral because it is not possible today, mr president, to remain neutral in the face of the rise of intergovernmentalism as we see it today. (applause) it is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, to remain neutral in the face of a council which, every time, seeks to deny the community method and the method invented by monnet. it is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, to remain neutral in the face of the constant attacks on the community method both within and outside the council. nor, i think, can we remain neutral in the face of the rise of nationalism and populism in europe, which are the negation of our european values. (applause) so i want you to be a president, mr. president, but i don't want you to be a neutral, genderless, opinionless president. on the contrary, i want a president, mr martin, who represents the european parliament, who unfailingly represents the european interest, which is different from that of the member states and the council. i want a president who fights for european integration and - why not say it, let's use the word, we have not been able to do it for decades - i want a president who fights for european federalism, as it was wanted by monnet, by schuman, by de gasperi and by spinelli. i would like above all, mr martin, if possible, to have a president who speaks to the member states when he goes to the council - you will be invited to this european council, with all due respect, as president of parliament - and who takes this opportunity, as your predecessors did, to tell the truth to the states and to tell them that only a fiscal, economic and political union can save the euro. finally, parliament must show the way forward. it is now up to parliament to take up its responsibilities, together with the commission and the european central bank, and show the way forward to resolve the crisis. it's very clear, it's very simple. europe is not the problem in this crisis; europe is the solution to today's problems. and finally, i would ask you to be lenient with your former colleagues, the group leaders, to be flexible about speaking time. i would remind you that i never do, mr president. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think that the prime minister has one priority, namely to find a way out of the two crises we are going through at the moment – the euro crisis, and the crisis concerning european values. i think that one thing is crystal clear: the half-measures that have been taken over the last two years have not worked, and all the bilateral meetings between mrs merkel and mr sarkozy have not worked either. they only calm the markets for 24 hours, and then everything starts again. we have to say, as has already been mentioned here, that the recent decision of standard and poor’s has been attacked by all – or perhaps i should say most – european leaders. i am not a big fan of the rating agency either, but i think that, instead of complaining about them, the european leaders today should read their reports and the message they are giving, because what they are saying is in fact true. i was disappointed that mr barnier, mr rehn and others reacted in that way because when you see – and when you read – what standard and poor’s is saying, it is true. they describe the lack of political courage and unity in europe as the main problems at the moment. they describe the misinterpretation of the crisis. they are saying that it is not only a financial crisis – a fiscal crisis – but also a trade imbalance crisis. they describe the need – maybe it was the socialists who wrote this – to help countries that are cutting their expenditure to achieve some growth too. (applause) thank you for the applause for standard and poor’s. so they are right that the crisis is far from over and that we still need a sustainable solution. let us be honest about this. the solution is not on the table for the moment. what we need are stability bonds, common bonds – choose whatever name you want. the german proposal for a redemption fund is also a very good idea. but if you want this crisis to be over, you have to act now. that is not just my opinion, or our opinion here; it is also the message from italy’s prime minister, mario monti, in today’s financial times. he says that he is not complaining about the downgrading of the ratings: the problem is the persistent policy weakness at european level. he also says that he does not just need a pat on the back from mrs merkel, but a commitment regarding eurobonds and the eurobond market. he is right. there is no sustainable solution for italy with today’s interest rates of six or seven percent. the only way that he can come out of this crisis is to continue with his economies and savings, but at the same time we must lower those six or seven percent interest rates on the eurobond market. otherwise we are asking an impossible task of mr monti. it is not fair to say that it is very good to continue with your austerity programmes and at the same time to continue having interest rates of six or seven percent. the second point, prime minister, is that you have another crisis to tackle: the crisis concerning our values. not just in hungary: look also at what is happening in romania today. i know that the commission has started a number of infringement procedures. i hope that we will find a majority here in the parliament to launch the procedure based on article 7 of the treaty. by the way, mr president, congratulations. you will give me more time now, will you not? you are an italian, you do that in italy. my final question to you, prime minister, is very clear. the commission is starting infringement procedures. we should be starting a procedure under article 7 of the treaty. my question is, what will the council be doing over the coming days? will you, prime minister, put it on the agenda of the next european council? i think it would be a mistake if you do not do so. the core of europe is not only about money and about the euro, but also about our liberties and our values.
president, madam prime minister, i hope you are aware that many people in europe have high expectations of denmark's presidency of the european union. your country is one of the few member states in the eu that has taken the courageous and necessary measures to bring the immigration problem under control. this has not always been welcomed by other governments and by the european union itself. in the wake of the so-called cartoon crisis, your country has also taken a courageous stand in defending the right to freedom of expression and freedom of the press against islamic intolerance. even if you represent a different government majority, madam prime minister, i hope you will defend the right of the member states to pursue their own asylum and immigration policies, because at the moment the lack of controls at the external borders is as much a schengen crisis as a euro crisis.
mr president, madam prime minister, thank you for presenting your programme. in the last six months this parliament has adopted a report on the fight against poverty. we are all aware that the problem is worsening in europe with the various austerity measures taken in various member states, although one passage states that these measures must not affect employment and social protection. in this context, what elements of your presidency's programme will support commissioner andor in his efforts to achieve the objective of reducing the number of poor in europe by 20 million? the budgetary aspect seems to me particularly important. the report recommends i quote "the continuation and increased budgetary support of the european programme to contribute to the various aspects of the fight against social exclusion and poverty". how do you see this recommendation being implemented in the negotiations on the future multiannual financial framework? two other topics will also be discussed: the continuation of the food aid programme for the poorest beyond 2013 and the european globalisation adjustment fund. what is the presidency's view of these programmes which seem to be endangered at the level of certain member states in the council?
in writing. the danish presidency has set itself the objective of creating a dynamic europe by contributing constructively to the development of the single market, and i commend it for this. as such, it is important to emphasize the necessary modernisation of public procurement, a subject for which i have responsibility in the imco committee. simplified and flexible procurement rules will allow public authorities' procurement to serve more as a growth engine, in particular in the context of green or innovative public procurement. it is also essential to take account of social criteria, which will enable the european union to maintain a certain level of social protection in the face of the crisis. i'm at your disposal for a collaboration that i hope will be fruitful.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, what we are doing is a very dangerous exercise. we are working on this treaty and my fear is that it could be used in future by the council and the member states as a way of tackling a number of problems outside the acquis communautaire, outside the secondary legislation and outside the normal treaty provisions. we agreed with the negotiators – and this is also reflected in today’s resolution – to limit everything as much as possible to the so-called ‘golden rule’. if we go beyond that then we are in fact destroying the community method. we have three objectives. first of all there must be no double standards; we cannot accept that in the future in europe. the stability pact is based on the treaty and the secondary legislation, but the stability and growth policy is based on this treaty. this is unacceptable. there has to be one standard in the european union and the eurozone, not two. the same applies to the excessive deficit procedure. in future, if we are not able to amend this treaty, there will be two types of excessive deficit procedure: one on the deficit criterion and another with other rules on the debt criterion. again double standards, that is my big fear. secondly, we have to have a binding provision in the treaty that this new treaty must comply with the provisions of existing treaties within at least five years, if possible within three. this must be a binding provision for the contracting parties. finally, we have to secure the role of the european parliament so that parliament and the president of the parliament are able to participate in euro summits. these are informal summits and, as such, parliament must be represented at them. having said that, i am not sure that if we improve the treaty we can back the treaty. that is another discussion and another decision which we will have to take in the coming weeks.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this very critical resolution on the draft treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union which is currently being negotiated by the member states. the resolution adopted reflects a common position (once is not always...) of the european parliament. it was important to recall that in this pact all the measures to be implemented must respect community rules and procedures. and let that be written in black and white, including the right of co-decision of parliament! the resolution also stresses respect for the revised stability pact and cooperation with national parliaments. these are fundamental elements.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i have to tell you that i regret personally that this debate is a debate between the two sides of the house. if we have to discuss the basic values of the european union, i do not think it is a good thing to have the type of reaction we have seen today. i have here a little document listing in total 30 breaches of the treaty, fundamental questions and serious concerns in relation to articles 2 and 4 of the treaty. these breaches, questions and concerns relate to the new hungarian constitution, the independence of the hungarian judiciary, the new media law, the independence of the data protection supervisor, the position of the hungarian central bank, the new church law and a lot of other issues, as well as the ‘cardinal laws’ that have recently been published. let there be no misunderstanding: i did not make this list myself. it is simply the summary of all the facts and all the complaints that you can find in official letters from official international authorities and official international organisations – the president of the commission, the secretary-general of the council of europe, the commissioner for fundamental rights of the european union, the venice commission, the organisation for security and cooperation in europe, the european central bank, the international monetary fund, the us secretary of state. i did not add to this list all the complaints from other organisations, such as amnesty international and human rights watch, or from the civil society representatives who are protesting in the streets. it is only the summary of official letters from official organisations that have complained. so saying that there is no major problem today in hungary astonishes me. (applause) yesterday the commission launched infringement procedures in relation to three questions. let us be clear, mr barroso: there is more at stake. the issues that have been tackled today are mainly technical ones, and i know there is also an important letter, which you mentioned, that raises other questions. what is necessary here is not a debate on technical issues, as we had at the beginning of the year. this is about checking the conformity of the constitution and cardinal laws with the european values that are enshrined in article 2 of the treaty: democracy, the rule of law, freedom of religion, freedom of expression and so on. for all these reasons, besides the role that the commission is playing with these infringement procedures, this house also has a responsibility under the treaty to take action. that is why i am calling on all members – not the right against the left or vice versa – in the committee on civil rights, justice and home affairs (libe) to draw up a report, based on article 7(1) of the treaty, stating ‘yes’ or ‘no’ – and it can be ‘no’ – on whether there exists a clear risk of a serious breach of our values. that is what we have to do. may i end with a personal message to you, mr orbán. let us recognise, first of all, that you did a fantastic job in the past, together with so many other dissidents, in beating communism and dictatorship, but i am afraid you are on the wrong path at the moment. listen to what your comrades of the past are saying to you today. i shall repeat now an open letter sent to you a few days ago by your former colleagues, dissidents györgy dalos, jános kenedi and györgy konrád. they wrote to you that hungary is an ‘example of what may happen wherever there is a concentration of crisis tendencies’ along with ‘authoritarian means and a policy of nationalistic isolation’. they end the letter by saying that it could be a good idea, mr orbán, to react sharply when someone wipes his shoes on liberal democracy, even if that someone is an old dissident… (the president cut off the speaker)(applause)(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i do not think that the problem is, in fact, about this or that article. the problem is the whole philosophy behind what is happening at the moment. this is clearly expressed in a beautiful sentence from, in my opinion, the greatest hungarian writer, sándor márai, who wrote in 1942 in a pamphlet... may i give it to you? you are not interested in it? well, that is your problem. the problem is that the european union is based on values and principles and they are applicable everywhere – in the north, in the south, in the east and in the west – and that is what is at stake. it is not only about the euro: it is about our values. (applause)
firstly, the hungarian electorate has given you a two-thirds majority in parliament, and this is causing a grinding of teeth among the left-wing parties, who are now trying to win their way through the european parliament. your people have fought bravely against communist oppression only to find that the brezhnev doctrine is still alive in the form of eu intervention against member states that do not follow suit. many of the interventions in this debate were not only hysterical, but also hypocritical. what about the chairman of the liberal group who is now lecturing you on fundamental democratic rights, while under his leadership in belgium one of the largest flemish parties, the vlaams blok, has been outlawed because of the political positions it defended? this has not happened anywhere else in the european union and no one in the european parliament or the commission has seen a problem in this. in other words, it is the old story of double standards that makes this european parliament so unreliable.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr prime minister, i can assure you right away that i am not a leftist. i am a liberal, a european democrat, and i am not involved in any conspiracy or subversive action. now you're reassured! but what i have to say to you is that the policy you are pursuing in your country, mr prime minister, is a deadly policy for democracy. the laws you have passed are contrary to european values and to the treaties. you have an arithmetical conception of democracy. it can only lead to what resembles what history calls the tyranny of the majority. that is clearly a distorted conception of democracy. you are calling into question the independence of the media, the independence of the judiciary, the independence of the police, the independence of the central bank, the protection of privacy. you're instilling a policy of fear in the citizens. you are in fact using your numerical majority to dissuade the people from exercising their right to freedom of opinion. this is what you're really doing. all this is incompatible with european values. obviously, this is a serious drift. finally, i would like to say what i find most disturbing in this debate, and i say this with great sympathy and respect for the epp: the deafening silence, the complacent understanding of the epp friends towards mr orbán. you're the best people to talk some sense into him.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr orbán says of györgy konrad, dalos and kenedi: 'oh, they are liberals'. it is not a disease to be liberal, mr orbán, as you suggest. you were a liberal yourself for a long time, before you became a nationalist and started defending other ideas. i hope mr konrad is a liberal. i hope mr. kennedy is a liberal, he's a great historian. these three are great hungarians. we should not start by saying: "what they say is partisan; that is because they are liberals". i haven't heard a single argument against anything we've said today. the only argument was that the 62-year-old was too old: "we have too much pension expenditure and that's why we are lowering the retirement age". that is the argument we have made today. i'd say no arguments at all. the most important thing is what the commission has said, because, if i understand correctly, madam commissioner, other infringement procedures are possible in addition to the three that we have now. if the replies to the letter are not satisfactory, the commission will go beyond the three infringement procedures. it's important that you can confirm that again.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, william painter was the inventor of the crown cork and he said to his friend and colleague camp gillette - i suspect he is the one who made the razor blades - at the turn of the 19th century: if you really want to get rich, you have to make products that people throw away. i think the two gentlemen didn't quite realize at the time that this was the beginning of what we all know as the throwaway society, long a symbol of our progress, but today a really huge, huge problem. when the directive first came out in 2003, we rightly focused on the problems of this throwaway society for our environment, air quality, soil quality and the social consequences of poorly dismantling and recycling this electronic material in third world countries. i would like to stress that these are still very important arguments. but, as the commissioner said, there is of course an additional argument, namely the argument of the precious metals, the important raw materials in our mobile phones and our other electronic equipment. that is why we have had a great deal of support from a certain section of industry for this revision. the support, ladies and gentlemen - the rapporteur has already referred to it - which we have also received from the commission, but unfortunately not from the council which for some reason is in a mood that it still thinks that the rules are not good. well, in this case, rules are not only good, but they're very necessary to achieve our goals. high recycling targets, very strong export regulations and ensuring that even and especially the small material, our mobile phones which contain a lot of important materials, meet higher targets. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur very sincerely - and i do so with great conviction - because it is under his expert leadership and with his experience that we have been able to push the strong position of parliament as far as possible with, as i said just now, a council which is actually on a totally wrong wavelength. that is why i am absolutely convinced, as is my group, that i will vote in favour of this result tomorrow.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i thank you for the courtesy of excusing corinne lepage, our fictional reporter, who is being held tonight because of the presidential campaign. i would like to thank mrs klass, who was absent for a few moments and stood up to the council at this second reading on biocides, and of course the fictitious rapporteurs for the quality of their cooperation. commissioner, mrs lepage also wishes to welcome the very constructive attitude of the commission which has used all its energy to promote the compromise which is on the table tonight. i believe that we have succeeded in creating a viable system which is more protective of the environment and the health of users, which was not possible in advance. we have taken special care to ensure that the new centralised authorisation system does not lead to a gradual blackout of the helsinki chemicals agency. the approach that has been chosen three-step approach is the right one, as is the priority given for september 2013 to low-risk biocidal products and those intended primarily for human and veterinary hygiene. the compromise, as i have said, therefore improves the system in several respects: clear criteria for excluding from the market products containing the most harmful substances, the establishment of provisional criteria for endocrine disruptors, better control also of nanomaterials, the obligation to label treated products and new rights for consumers, who can ask manufacturers for information on these products. it was one of the parliament's priorities to avoid new scandals such as those of the sofas, which we remember, those sofas imported from china by a large french chain, which contained unauthorised substances and caused serious burns. however, we regret that the price for these improvements was the abandonment of parliament's veto power to amend the list of authorized active substances, which we regret. but, on the whole, the group of european liberal democrats is of course pleased that europe, with this regulation, with reach or with the regulation on pesticides, is now in possession of the most ambitious legislation on chemicals in the world, no more and no less.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- the report by josé bové, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the distribution chain of agricultural inputs: structure and implications (a7-0421/2011),- the oral question to the commission on imbalances in the food chain, by maria do céu patrão neves, luis manuel capoulas and santos james nicholson, on behalf of the group of the european people's party and the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament (o-000239/2011 - b7-0675/2011), and- the oral question to the commission on transparency and fairness in the food supply chain by bair de chabre, on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left/nordic green left (b7-0230/2011 - b7-067000/2011).
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, back in 2010 we already approved the report by josé bové, which focused on the market forces to which farmers sell their produce: the manufacturing industry, the distribution sector. now we are looking upwards, with ever-rising commodity prices on the one hand and increasing dependence of farmers on a highly concentrated sub-contracting sector on the other. mr. lyon was just talking about that. this new bové report gives a helping hand to the active farmers and sets out a strategy for a more social agricultural policy which will provide a decent income for farmers. a policy that is also greener. a policy that takes even greater care of sustainable agricultural practices. it is also a policy that makes a concrete contribution to the fight against climate change. it is also a policy aimed at the ruthless monopolies of the seed and food giants. this report creates a close alliance between this parliament and active farmers, and it defends the autonomy of farmers and consumers and it deserves our full support. congratulations to josé bové!
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, mr fajmon, i have just heard you say that it was absolutely necessary to abolish quotas to allow the agricultural sector to develop. do you realise that in the milk sector, for example, where quotas had kept the system running without major crises for 25 years, their abolition was barely announced in 2015, but their abolition was in fact planned well before 2015, and the sector experienced its most serious crisis in the autumn of 2009, when the price plunged from 45 cents to 19 cents? is this what you want to impose on all other types of production, supposedly to protect the agricultural sector?
madam president, commissioner, i should first like to congratulate mr josé bové on his excellent report, which clearly shows the importance of protecting the producers at the bottom, because although the three players involved are well known, namely the producers, the processing industry and the small processing and distribution companies, only the producers are suffering today. the other two major sectors are concentrated or very concentrated. that's the case with distribution. the producers are poor and widely dispersed. so we must try to organise them as we have just done with the milk report with mr nicholson. we tried to give them more strength. i don't think that's going to be enough. there will certainly be, in my view, two important aspects. firstly, they will have to be organized, but under the control of the public authorities because - and this was said earlier by a colleague - there must be an observatory of prices and margins, because only the public authorities can guarantee a balance between the various actors. secondly, i think we must stop giving competition the sacrosanct value we give it. what matters first and foremost is the well-being of each of the actors in the food chain in the service of the well-being of all. this is above the rules of competition.
in writing. this is a technical correction to the provisions on airport transit visas (atv). this correction will not change the practice of the member states. the amendment to the regulation provides that third-country nationals holding a valid visa or residence permit issued by a member state which does not (or does not yet) apply the full schengen provisions (united kingdom, ireland, cyprus, bulgaria, romania) are exempted from the requirement to have an airport transit visa. under this new provision, a person of iraqi nationality, for example, can travel without an airport transit visa if he holds a visa issued by bulgaria. the amendment seems logical: there is no need to check again a person who already has a visa or residence permit (who has therefore already been checked before and who, as such, has already been recognised as not posing a risk of illegal immigration). in addition, the proposal should also reduce the administrative burden on member states. i fully support this proposal.
in writing. the resolution on pedestrian safety and light emitting diodes will promote the harmonization of standards in various countries. it will therefore open up new markets and enable many firms to trade. competitiveness within the union will thus be boosted. in addition to this advantage for commercial operations, this resolution offers safety for pedestrians and is in line with environmental protection as leds have a long life.
in writing. this new agreement between the european union and indonesia on certain aspects of air services will boost economic growth, which is a vital issue today. this policy encourages the exploitation of space systems, including financial and legislative mechanisms. it will help to instill a spirit of initiative and innovation, which will boost european competitiveness. this policy will also make it possible to achieve coherence within europe by harmonising and strengthening national space programmes. finally, by replacing certain provisions of the bilateral agreements, discrimination between union carriers will be eliminated.
in writing. the report i voted for is a classic agreement, requiring a simple european parliament approval procedure, and which is already provisionally applied. the aim of the agreement is to strengthen cooperation between the union and icao, in particular through the exchange of experts and the establishment of programmes to harmonise upwards aviation safety and security standards.
in writing. the consumer society in which we live forces us to rethink the recycling of electrical and electronic waste. the updating of the directive on this issue was necessary from an economic, environmental and social point of view. it is just as unacceptable to waste raw materials such as gold, silver or palladium as it is to dump toxic products such as arsenic, cyanide, mercury, etc. or to export them to developing countries, thus contributing to the creation of uncontrolled landfills. in doing so we have become accomplices in the export of toxic waste in disguise, leaving the men, women and children of the developing countries exposed to the toxic fumes of heavy metals and dioxins emitted by the incineration of waste. it is our duty to ensure the harmonious, balanced and respectful development of our planet by re-framing our modern lifestyles so as not to leave future generations with a plundered and devastated planet.
in writing. belgium is the european champion in the collection of waste electrical and electronic equipment. this is not to be taken lightly, with nearly 10 kilos of household appliances collected per capita thanks to the effectiveness of the recupel system that has been in place since 2001. this is an encouraging figure for environmental protection and well above the minimum collection target of 4 kg per capita per year set since 2003 by the european directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment. of course, belgium and europe can still do better and draw inspiration from the very ambitious new collection targets set out in the european parliament-council agreement finalised this afternoon with the adoption of the florenz report: a collection target of 65% for 2019 based on the volume of electronic equipment in existence over the last three years, a new scope extended to solar panels in six years, and the incentive to separate waste for reuse addressed to member states. to make the picture complete, the union must also set an example beyond its borders by combating the illegal export of hazardous electronic waste to third countries, a real health and environmental scourge, particularly on the african continent.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it provides for stricter controls in the eu not only on pesticides (such as insecticides, disinfectants and repellents) but also on all products treated with biocides. it also provides for simplification of the marketing authorisation process and prohibition of the most problematic substances, such as carcinogens. once this agreement is formally adopted, the updating of the 1998 legislation (directive 98/8 ec) will ensure that treated products such as furniture treated with fungicides will be included in the scope of the new regulation. this vote was therefore of paramount importance in ensuring a high level of consumer health protection, which is my first priority! it should be noted that pesticides for agricultural use will continue to be covered by other european legislation, and more work will have to be done on this!
in writing. space activities and applications (including the galileo and gmes flagship projects) are essential to the growth and development of our society. the european commission's communication recognises the crucial role of space and marks a first step towards an integrated space policy, which will be based on the new legal basis provided by the lisbon treaty. the report voted today supports the commission's position that it intends to strengthen europe's space infrastructure and calls for more research in the space sector. europe is already playing a leading role in the strategic sector of satellite communication technologies. however, in order to maintain this lead and extend it to other space-related subsectors, industrial and research policy will need to be intensified.
in writing. consumer waste is estimated at 90 million tonnes per year, while about 16 million people in the eu depend on food aid. more than one billion people still suffer from hunger in the world. in view of these considerations, it was high time that the european parliament called on the commission and the eu member states to take concrete measures at national level to halve food waste by 2025. this is not only an economic, environmental and social imperative but also an ethical requirement for the poorest. urgent and strategic measures are needed, by raising awareness of waste in general. awareness campaigns, food education courses, improved packaging, optimised packaging and date-of-sale labelling are ways for everyone to achieve decent and tangible results.
in writing. i voted in favour of the caronna report on a subject which is important for european households as it directly affects their budget and the value of saving money by avoiding food waste. this is a growing practice, as according to a study by the commission, food waste in the 27 member states of the union amounts to 89 million tonnes (or 179 kg per person) and is expected to increase by 40% by 2020. but too often this waste is food that is perfectly edible, as opposed to food waste, but which is removed from the food chain for aesthetic reasons, or often because of the proximity of the expiry date. that is why i support the idea of encouraging the primary sector and short-term supply chains in the future common agricultural policy. another measure which would certainly bring results is the multiplication of channels for the free or reduced-price redistribution of unused food. supermarkets specialising in these products are being set up. they are a real demand of the citizens in these times of crisis and "lean cows" and the public authorities must encourage them.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the summit on monday was about jobs and growth, but i must say that, in my opinion – and my assessment is the same as that of my colleague joseph daul – it has mainly produced words. seven pages of words and seven pages of good intentions. i think what we need now in the middle of this crisis is not seven pages of words, but acts – acts of the european union and acts of the european institutions. let me give you just three examples. the first is the european patent. it is a major instrument for growth in europe, but, for more than a year now, its introduction – which is so needed – has been blocked. why is it blocked? because, for the moment, the big countries cannot agree on the seat: that is the reality in europe for the moment. on the seat! this is completely ridiculous and i should say even tragic, because, in the mean time, our small and medium enterprises are paying eight times more for the protection of their innovations than their american counterparts do. so i ask the president of the council and the president of the commission: if germany, britain and france really cannot agree, why can the eu leadership not put the seat temporarily in brussels? why are they not doing that – as we did, mr cohn-bendit, with the european food agency in 2001? i think it is a shame to have a council summit about growth but not to be capable of definitely launching the european patent in europe. let me give a second example of this, namely the project bonds. how many times have we already discussed the project bonds in this parliament? we have been discussing them for years. my question is: why do we not start tomorrow with project bonds in the european union? why is it necessary to wait for two years of discussion inside the council and inside other institutions? let me give a third example of this, namely the enormous amount of unused money in the structural and other european funds. we could change the regulation immediately. you know what the problem is – if you put in one euro from the structural funds, you also need one euro from the country in question, and these countries, for example greece and portugal, cannot do this at the moment. so why is it not possible immediately to change the regulation and immediately to use this unused, unspent money for countries in recession, such as portugal and greece? that is what we need today – acts and not words, not the seven pages we have seen up to now. finally, i think another problem we have today is the existential problem that we have in this euro crisis. we have now secured a new treaty. we now have fiscal discipline – let us be honest, a six-pack, a two-pack, a new treaty – but how will we now deal with the high interest rates we still have, even after the intervention of the european central bank, in countries such as spain and italy? everybody here knows that an interest rate of around 6% is not sustainable for italy. whatever decision mr monti may take, it is not sustainable and italy cannot recover with a 6% interest rate. we have already put more than eur 1 000 billion into the fight against this crisis – eur 1 trillion of taxpayers’ money – and the end is not in sight. the reason for this is that we always take half measures. we need a structural solution to this crisis. in my opinion a structural solution means a mutualisation of a part of the debt in a disciplined way. that is the proposal of the five wise german economists: to create a redemption fund. let us be clear. my conclusion is a message to the german taxpayers. if the solution we opt for is a redemption fund, it will be the bond holders who receive lower interest rates: they are the solution to the crisis, and not the german taxpayers. so my message today to all of you is: let us take up that proposal of a redemption fund and let us in our legislative work bring it about as fast as possible.
mr president, i would firstly like to welcome the fiscal compact. in fact it comes 10 years too late. a monetary union needs budgetary underpinning, without which it will crumble. but the long-term objective does not solve short-term problems. greece will not recover in the eurozone, portugal is a cliff-hanger, and italy, spain and france lost their competitiveness years ago, partly because of the euro. transfers will not cure the loss of competitiveness. nor will increased taxation, as mr sarkozy thinks. every time he appears on television he proposes a new tax. i wonder why french socialists still need a presidential candidate because mr sarkozy is turning socialist by the day. now we also have a brussels-based budget tsar. mr rehn is from a country that once lived under tsarist rule. he knows all about it, but in the end moscow never succeeded in imposing policies on neighbouring states like the one of budget tsar mr rehn. mr barroso, this is an important historic lesson to keep in mind – but mr barroso has gone.
in writing. this intergovernmental convention is not only unnecessary, it is also undesirable. and there are two important reasons for this. first of all, it is undemocratic. the european council creates a legal divide by putting mutual agreements between member states above european legislation. in the first case, the role of parliaments is limited to a simple 'yes' or 'no'. the european legislative procedure, on the other hand, must take account of the european parliament's position as a full-fledged co-legislator. secondly, the european leaders are putting a remedy to the wrong disease into this treaty. the fact that conservatives and liberals have been preaching for three years now that only blind austerity can bring europe out of the crisis is no longer news. but the fact that this ideological agenda is now also being constitutionally enshrined is beyond imagination. the gap with citizens' concerns is only made more striking by the comparison with the growth strategy that the same leaders put forward just two years ago, the europe 2020 strategy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of life of the people of the community.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam high representative, on 23 september last, the same day that mahmoud abbas submitted his request to the un, the quartet was drafting a press release setting out a roadmap with a significant deadline of 26 january. on 26 january, the two sides were to define their positions on security and the boundaries that were to provide the basis for these negotiations. everyone applauded the quartet's initiative. on january 26th, nothing happened. a part of the palestinians had presented their position but the israelis had not. madam high representative, the question i am going to ask you is like the one in the labaki film, "and now where do we go?"
the clock is ticking, and very soon there will probably be elections in palestine. at the same time, hamas is currently on a tour of the middle east, as khaled mechaal went to jordan as well. if there is no progress in the negotiations, this is indeed a gift we will give to hamas for the forthcoming elections in palestine. so the stakes are high.
on behalf of the alde group. madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take you to another continent, namely sub-saharan africa, and i would like to ask you about the most recent developments in the democratic republic of congo, where the presidential elections, the results of which have been and are still disputed, took place in an extremely controversial and very troubled atmosphere, and where the results of the legislative elections are only published in drops and are in turn contested. i would like to know what your view is and what is the feeling in the european union institutions at the moment on this matter? secondly, i would like to point out a particularly worrying development in senegal, where a very important candidate has been rejected by the high court and where the outgoing president - to my great regret, because he is a personal friend - is still going to participate in the elections for the third time, and this in spite of his own constitution.
on behalf of the alde group. – we will certainly do that, madam high representative. let me express my conviction that, even if someone is a great artist or a personal friend of some meps, this does not mean they can flout the constitutional roles that are applicable in their country.
president, mrs ashton, you see that there is very broad support across all party lines for your position in the european union. i think that because of the stubbornness of the iranian regime - and that is a strong understatement - we had no choice but to take strong sanctions, although i admit that i have mixed feelings. i do not know - you are the expert and there are no doubt other experts - whether there are many examples of cases where sanctions have also effectively led to regime change. the commission has already made a number of proposals. but anyway, we have to be behind it. i would like to make a few important remarks in the extensive debate that is taking place here. i and my whole group believe that these sanctions must not be a pretext for military intervention or armed conflict in the region and in iran. i think that should be clear and i do not think we need the military threat to show our teeth. i think that a military conflict is bad for the region, bad for iran and also for europe, and therefore is not an option. secondly, in a broader context - and i am very glad, mrs ashton, that you have referred to this - what concerns me even more is the situation of the people in iran and human rights. we can also take matters into our own hands. there are still companies in the european union that use their technology, sell their technology to oppress people in iran, for example through communication technologies, or use communication technologies to listen to people, spy on people, or to keep the internet from being released, for example. i think we should also make sure that we sweep our own door, mrs ashton. i hope that you and the commission will do the necessary work on this.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mr santiago fisas on his excellent report and the broad support he has won in this parliament. sport has such obvious benefits from a social point of view, social cohesion, health, that we no longer have to dwell on them. but it cannot be stressed enough and i think it is important that we therefore create space for measures which guarantee the integrity of sport to the maximum and step up the fight against money laundering, against illegal practices. in this connection, mr president, and madam commissioner, i have a message for some of our british eurosceptic friends who have already left the chamber. look at what happened today in egypt, where dozens of football fans were killed in violence. look at what happened today in vienna, where dozens of fans were jailed and convicted in court for violence in football stadiums. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we need a european sport policy. i shall quote the word for word from mr fisas' report: "to deny entry to stadiums to supporters who have shown violent or discriminatory behaviour", and "to ensure that stadium bans are also enforced at international matches". that is what this report says, and it is very timely, and that is why we need a european sport policy, and that is why we will support you, commissioner, 100%. a database to exchange information on hooligans who are guilty of violence and racism, i think that can be done much more efficiently at european level, as, as the honourable members have said, the fight against doping, against gambling fraud, etc. so let us concentrate on that, ladies and gentlemen, instead of sitting here all night whining about a european flag that can be displayed on a t-shirt, a proposal which i support 100% because, mr kelly, it is indeed on a voluntary basis, with 100% respect for subsidiarity.
first of all, i would like to thank mr schmidt for his excellent report and for the good cooperation. he referred to the eurocrisis, the debt crisis, which is forcing us all to think about how we can better integrate our economy. it goes without saying that we must also come together on taxation, within the eurozone in particular, but within the european union in general. it implies fairer taxation for my group. the elimination of tax evasion and avoidance within the european union, but also, of course, a common strategy of the european union towards third countries. in this context, we are advocating a common european approach, agreements between the european union on the one hand and switzerland and other third countries on the other, rather than agreements between individual eu member states on the one hand and switzerland on the other hand, to solve this. of course, measures are also needed such as a shift of taxation from labour to the environment and wealth, common taxation instruments such as the financial transaction tax and finally a harmonisation of tax scales, particularly for corporate taxation. i think that's absolutely important.
in writing. we live in the age of globalisation. the challenges are no longer continental but global. immense progress in ethics, intelligence and organisation is essential at all levels, whether in the field of the environment, development cooperation, etc. the global universalism of tomorrow will be based on a developed dialogue between all civilizations. we must be open to the changes in the world. the challenges are many: population growth is accelerating, while the ecology and climate are deteriorating. there is an urgent need to build a stronger, more united global governance. it is urgent to build a 'world state', as jacques attali says. we need to learn from china, brazil, south africa, india, turkey... we must give them their place, as well as others, in the renewal of international institutions. addressing the major global challenges will require multipolar and global cooperation. europe will only be able to convince the rest of the world if it has a project supported by the entire political body, from left to right. europe can set the tone if it abandons its sovereignists, if it speaks with one voice.
in writing. the development of a harmonised approach to collective redress is essential in the context of the single market in order to ensure the rights of 500 million european consumers. the integration of european markets and the increase in crossborder activities make the implementation of this approach essential. the national procedures do not provide real solutions at the cross-border level. the class action system, currently used at national level in 14 eu member states, does not provide optimal compensation in the areas of class action damages, such as flight cancellations, defective products, etc. an extension of this to all eu member states would allow for an effective and respectful approach to european consumer protection. this would increase judicial certainty for the parties and the judicial system.
in writing. - i welcome the envi motion for a resolution on the list of permitted nutrition claims, as it will prevent consumers from being confused by the nutrition claim 'now contains x% less sugar (or other nutrients) ' when buying food. i support the efforts of the food industry to make the contents of food 'healthier', but this new advertising message will lead to much more opacity for the consumer than it will encourage the industry to invest in 'improving' their products. the food industry still has the option of advertising products with the words 'reduced sugar' or 'reduced salt'. however, these advertising claims are only allowed if the nutrient content has been reduced by at least 30% compared to other products of the same food category. the advertising claim 'now contains x% less x (nutrients) ' which is to be re-authorised, however, does not have such a restriction and may therefore confuse the consumer. in addition, consumers expect a corresponding reduction in energy content when they hear the phrase '15% less sugar'. however, the commission proposal allows the use of the advertising message even if the energy content remains the same due to other additives. this leads to the impression being given to consumers that this product contains fewer calories due to the reduction in sugar, although the energy content remains the same. in particular, it is of the utmost importance that foodstuffs be provided with clear, easy to understand and transparent information, so that the consumer can make a quick and easy choice among the many products on offer.
in writing. − this report is very much to be welcomed as it promotes a sustainable and efficient waste management strategy. there has been a high number of petitions on waste management plants, so it is useful to summarise the main problems in a report in order to be able to deal with them in practice. these main problems include the lack of environmental impact assessments and existing deficiencies in waste management systems. i welcome the fact that the acceleration of the implementation of the waste directive 2008/98/ec by the member states is explicitly called for. the waste framework directive contains important rules which provide for the protection of both the environment and human health. deficiencies in waste management systems cause environmental damage, such as groundwater pollution. this does not stop at the border, but has a transnational effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in the member states.
in writing. violence against women in wartime is unparalleled. i am particularly committed to these deadly practices. as co-president of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i have already put this issue on the agenda of the acp twice: firstly at the plenary session held in the drc in november 2010, and secondly at the regional session held in cameroon in april 2011. i also, as president of the jean rey circle, awarded the jean rey international prize to dr denis mukwege for his work on behalf of these women in the drc. these women are not just victims, they want to be actors of change, actors of a better future for their children, especially for their daughters. their commitment to a more just society, one which respects human rights, should also be welcomed. the european union stands by them and regularly takes action against any form of discrimination against them. the creation of a post of european union special representative for women, and in particular the appointment of this representative, will provide greater efficiency and coherence in all the policies it pursues.
in writing. the 2010 report on competition policy by the european commission clearly states that recent consolidations in the banking sector have in fact allowed several financial institutions to increase their market shares. i voted in favour of this report because it very clearly and urgently asks the commission to continue to monitor developments in the european banking sector closely. as regards fines and settlement procedures for antitrust and anti-competitive conduct, i also believe that the policy on fines remains an important deterrent and enforcement tool.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, the main purpose of which is to entrust the ohim with certain tasks relating to the management of the european observatory on counterfeiting and piracy in order to better combat infringements of intellectual property rights. the aim is to raise public and private sector awareness of the impact of counterfeiting and piracy and to inform consumers of the dangers of buying counterfeit goods and that the practice remains strictly illegal.
in writing. the european union's economic prosperity is the result of its creativity, cultural diversity and capacity for innovation. the trade in counterfeit and pirated goods does not enhance the innovation of european companies and leads to an increase in job losses. in addition, counterfeit products, such as medicines, children's toys, and household appliances, can be dangerous, even deadly, to the consumer. this is a matter of concern to the committee on consumer protection. therefore, the protection of intellectual property rights benefits not only innovators but also businesses and consumers. finally, the merger of the ohim and the observatory will make efficient use of financial and human resources by providing the observatory with the necessary funding and infrastructure to carry out its work.
in writing. taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market and globalisation, many companies are operating across national borders. the demand for access to company information in a cross-border context (either for commercial purposes or for better access to justice) is therefore increasing. but this cross-border access to company information requires cross-border cooperation between trade registers. this cooperation already existed to some extent, but was still limited to certain types of information and did not concern all member states. i therefore welcome the adoption of this directive, which establishes a purely technical interconnection of existing national registers. a platform has also been created to improve and accelerate communication and information for citizens and businesses.
in writing. on the basis of the mandate given by the council, the european commission negotiated with the republic of guinea-bissau the renewal of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau dated 17 march 2008. the new protocol, which has just been approved by the european parliament, covers a period of one year from june 2011. it restates the terms of the previous protocol and contains - which i welcome - a clause allowing its suspension in the event of violations of human rights and democratic principles in guinea.
in writing. twelve years after the signing of the association agreement between the european union and morocco, and the granting in 2008 of advanced status to that country (for the record, advanced status reflects the ambition to promote and maintain a structured and open political dialogue, of which human rights, democratisation and governance are essential elements), i welcome the adoption of the euro-mediterranean protocol voted today as it covers the general principles of morocco's participation in current and future eu programmes open to that country, one year after the arab spring, in line with the objectives of the european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. morocco has long been a natural ally of the eu. the adoption of this protocol, which recognises morocco as having a legal basis for participating in community programmes in seven fields such as energy, customs, entrepreneurship, consumer policy, research, health, etc., is a new political signal underlining our desire to make the euro-mediterranean partnership a reality and our support for the democratization efforts undertaken by the moroccan government. this positive vote is in line with the advanced status that the eu granted it in 2008. in view of the profound changes that have been taking place in the southern mediterranean since the arab spring, it was essential to strengthen our relations.
in writing. payment systems that offer efficiency, reliability and security for users are essential to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. this is why the introduction of euro payment services is essential. it would bring considerable economic benefits while encouraging competition and innovation. however, the slow pace of implementation calls for a deadline to facilitate the integration of the payments market. these measures are therefore essential to ensure consistency in terms of efficiency and safety at european level.
question for george lyon. i would like to ask george lyon for clarification, who seemed to say that, beyond 2013, the issue should be more a matter for social policy and therefore, as i understood it, for the member states who are responsible for social policy. i would point out to him, however, that by voting for the six-pack and perhaps the two-pack, in the present economic situation, it will be impossible for the member states to pursue a social policy because some officials in the commission will oppose an increase in social spending, since they are only acting by limiting spending. we therefore put the blame on the member states which will be unable to provide social assistance. i would draw his attention to this and ask him if that is what he meant or if he thinks we should deal with this issue in the context of the social cohesion budget at european level? i thank him for his answer.
mr president, i am not going to make a culinary speech but clearly i am sad today, because we are simply having this debate. this debate should never have taken place in the difficult times we are living in. what are we talking about? we are talking about 500 million euros which are already in the budget, which could have been changed and which could have been allocated differently following a decision of the court of justice in order to fulfil the mission they are fulfilling today, that is to say, to alleviate the suffering of the 16 million european citizens who do not eat their fill every day. instead, we are forced to have this debate. i welcome the commissioner's desire to save this budget, because at last - and mr omarjee said it earlier - we talk with impunity about hundreds of billions for the banks and we are going to refuse to give five hundred million for the poorest! this is serious! what message will europe send if we do not save this programme beyond 2013? today i must congratulate you, commissioner, the rapporteur and all those who have helped to save it until 2013. but the fight starts tomorrow morning to keep it beyond 2013, because there is no question of abandoning this programme which takes care of the poorest citizens of the european union.
in writing. mr president, today we can finally secure food aid for the least-privileged for this year and next. this is good news for the millions of europeans who depend on food aid. we cannot leave the poor in the cold anywhere in europe, especially now that the crisis is increasing their numbers. that is european solidarity. we must now do everything possible to safeguard this programme in the negotiations for the multiannual budget from 2014. the programme has been running for 25 years and is a cornerstone of our solidarity with the most deprived. belgium is one of the member states which has already committed itself to this.
in writing. this regulation and the extension of the programme until the end of 2013 are overall positive news in this period of suffering for the poorest. but an agreement between different member states not to extend these actions beyond 2014, as this would be the exclusive competence of the member states, is inadmissible. this attitude reveals several contradictions. the pressure on national budgets through economic governance and the desire to place the additional burden of this aid on them. between an exclusive competence of member states in social matters for the esdp, but not for wage levels or pensions impacted by economic governance. between this position of some member states and my report on poverty in which parliament calls for the programme to be extended beyond 2014 and considers that austerity measures cannot undermine social protection. the union's solidarity project is at stake and the citizens are watching us. let us consolidate this programme for the coming years.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr james nicholson, also on his working method, which has ensured that all the fictitious rapporteurs are involved throughout the procedure, and this is not common practice. the council and parliament have reached an agreement, after sometimes laborious negotiations, which, if it does not arouse enthusiasm, has the merit of wanting to organise the dairy sector. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the dairy sector in the period from 1 january 2009 to 31 december 2010. i regret, of course, like others, the decision to abolish quotas because this regulatory system - although it is not perfect and it has not been - has generally worked well for 25 years, has avoided major crises and perhaps only needed to be relaxed. however, the new rules will give milk producer organisations the possibility of collectively negotiating the terms of the contracts, including price. we gave them the tools to strengthen their position in the supply chain, by derogating from competition law, and this was not earned in advance. in addition, member states which opt for the obligation to contract in their territory will be able to set a minimum duration equivalent to at least six months, and six months is still not bad compared to what the industry does today by revising the price sometimes from month to month. as for contracts, i would of course have liked them to be made compulsory throughout europe. this was not possible because of a majority in the council opposing it. the recognition of inter-branch organisations is also a positive point, although i regret that the public authorities, who should be the arbiters, such as the price and margin monitoring body, have not been included as a fourth player at the table. in conclusion, while this agreement is a step in the right direction, it can be improved by, for example, restoring the role of the public authority as a regulator. we shall see about that at the single european act. let me also, in addition to the representatives we are, who have done a lot of work on this matter, welcome - this is obviously not the custom - mr baragiola, an official of parliament, who is behind me, who has taken part in all the meetings between us and who has played a decisive role. it is also good to greet officials, who are in the service of the public institution. i didn't want to miss it.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, morocco is the 130th country in terms of human development. it is far behind libya, lebanon, jordan, syria and tunisia. it's a country with a per capita income half that of turkey, libya, tunisia, in short, it's a poor country. it is a poor country and it is a country that, in the context of the arab spring, did not defend itself so badly. i would have liked to see democratic reforms in morocco go much further, but i must say that the reforms that have been introduced are not just facade reforms and the election results have been faithfully honoured. now, will saying no to this agreement, whose pitfalls have been denounced, help the moroccans to face the political and economic crisis that is at their doorstep? i don't think he did. i don't think he did. i think the question is not whether we will be flooded with moroccan tomatoes, but whether saying no will allow us to give hope to those populations whose immigration we know today, which is not a chosen immigration, but a matter of survival. do we trust morocco or not? i say: let's trust morocco and see what political and economic reforms they are capable of achieving. because, mr bové, it is not just a matter of saying no, we need a transformation of economic and industrial policy and we can only achieve this in a partnership of trust. i say: let us bet on morocco, let us not lose our vigilance, neither in relation to morocco nor in relation to all that the commission has promised us today, and in particular in favour of small farmers and sectors which are not the big multinational companies. so i say yes!
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on industry, research and energy on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual radio spectrum policy programme (16226/1/2011 c7-0012/2012 2010/0252 (cod)) (rapporteur: gunnar hökmark) (a7-0019/2012)
a little flower for mr. rübig, as it is valentine's day. you have already spoken twice in this debate, but i will allow you to speak.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 15 february, at 12.30 p.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission published its first macroeconomic monitoring report yesterday and it is good that this mechanism has been put in place. of course, as was to be expected, germany is beyond any scrutiny, beyond any comment from the commission. it should be noted that the alert thresholds for macroeconomic imbalances have been adjusted to avoid germany falling under the threshold of increased surveillance. this is because france, whose deficits are persistent and well over 3%, has not been reprimanded by the commission so far. i can therefore only say that the commission is practicing a two-speed europe. there is a franco-german directory, which is better left alone, and then there are the others, which can be attacked. the commission will only regain confidence if it tackles with the same energy private and public debt, banks and states in difficulty, inequalities and public deficits, france and germany and all the states in difficulty.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i would like to welcome minister margrethe vestager. you are a face of europe that we would like to see more often and i would also like to say a special word to jean-paul gauzès, who, on behalf of the epp, led the work in the econ committee. i felt that the epp wanted to bring together those who believe in european integration. we have not been insensitive to this and we must continue to work in this direction. the 2012 annual growth survey - i think the word is rather poorly chosen - is undoubtedly an improvement over the 2011 version. i would like to highlight two points which we particularly welcomed. on the one hand, the fact that the report draws attention to the negative social justice aspects of certain austerity measures being taken, and this concern is timely in this document. the second welcome element is the greater emphasis this year on taxation issues. i am referring to the question of tax revenue. this is good work! it is felt that this has been a more collective exercise within the commission. i would like to say, however, that we are all very well aware that the consequences, the follow-up to the annual growth review, are in the hands of dg ecfin and we are all aware of dg ecfin's morbid obsession with public spending as such and with reducing wages. i don't go back on that, so we say "suspicious". we will of course continue to monitor how you draw inspiration from this annual growth review. i would simply say that this review must become a legislative act for us. it is the commission's economic policy guideline. that's good! it must be endorsed by the council and parliament to give you the democratic legitimacy you need to implement the measures you will recommend to the member states following this annual growth review. i think the commission will come out of this strengthened and, in any case, we will make proposals in this direction in the future. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer is "blue cardboard". i think the question is quite valid. i would like to join in what the representative of the presidency said. i think the best way to ensure sustainable jobs in europe is to embark on the green transformation - sorry to use that adjective, but it is still the case - the green transformation of our economy. this is really where it's going to go. if europe can become a world champion in energy efficiency, resource efficiency, that is, in raw materials, i think that is the best way for us to ensure sustainable jobs for today and for future generations. that is the direction in which we are going to work.
in writing. the fact that we as a parliament can only give our input on the policy lines in the context of the european semester through an own-initiative report, indicates the problem at the outset. neither the european parliament nor the national parliaments have a say in or control over the final policy guidelines. not a disaster in itself, as long as these policies were used as they were intended: as guidelines. however, there is a gradual shift, whereby these directives suddenly become much more binding. an example of this is the commitment of the heads of state or government at the european summit in december to implement these directives fully. to deny the parliament (whether european or national) the right to co-decide in such cases is to undermine the democratic process. the consequences are already being felt: the social dimension of the policies is treated as a stepmotherly issue and is completely overshadowed by macroeconomic and budgetary objectives. however, one cannot exist without the other, and i hope that the european council will also recognize this and give the social dimension of the guidelines the role it deserves.
in writing. today's vote is to endorse the participation of the republic of iceland, the principality of liechtenstein, the kingdom of norway and the swiss confederation, which assist the commission in the exercise of its executive powers in the field of the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis. parliament gave its agreement to the representatives of these associated states to submit comments on the proposals for measures developing the schengen acquis, or to indicate any problems linked to the application of these measures. in addition, each of the associated states will decide on the transposition of all measures adopted under the procedures of the schengen comitology committees concerning the application and development of the schengen acquis, thus confirming the rules laid down in the basic association agreements. a good thing!
in writing. − i strongly support the eu food aid scheme for the needy, as it allows member states to withdraw products from public intervention stocks for food aid purposes. charitable organizations and especially the needy whom they help depend on this ongoing program. it is of the utmost importance to ensure that this assistance continues beyond 2013 and thus to allow the continuation of the work of charitable organisations.
in writing. in this time of economic, social and financial crisis, the eu must show solidarity with the poorest, who number more than 18 million citizens in europe. that is why i voted for the extension of this aid programme which is over 25 years old. this decision is right, because the eu is much more than an economic project, it is a project of living together, it is a community of values. without solidarity, europe has lost all legitimacy. a growth strategy only makes sense if it is accompanied by a social strategy. we need to think beyond 2013. a european strategy is needed to help the 3 million homeless in europe. the european model is social. as an example, the europe 2020 strategy makes the fight against poverty and social exclusion one of its five priorities. we must not forget our commitments when the new financial framework is being established, which will be in place from 2014. a lasting solution must be found to leave no one behind.
in writing. since the digital age, frequency bands have become free and can meet the growing demand for new technologies and services. due to the scarcity of spectrum and its economic, social and cultural value, priorities for the allocation and use of radio spectrum should be set at european level. this programme provides for general regulatory principles and policy measures and common conditions to enhance efficiency and flexibility, preserve and encourage competition, and calls for an inventory and monitoring of current and emerging spectrum needs. the report also stresses the need for efficient use of spectrum, greater flexibility to promote innovation and investment and ensure a level playing field in the union, and the need to consolidate the proposal for an inventory of current spectrum uses and emerging needs. the ep has succeeded in imposing a large-scale inventory of current spectrum use between 400 mhz and 6 ghz, in order to put in place a flexible and coordinated spectrum policy in europe, allowing for the correction of inefficiencies in spectrum use and to cope with the exponential increase in wireless data exchanges through future frequency reallocations.
in writing. the collapse in milk prices between 2007 and 2009 and the distress of producers are still well known. following the difficulties faced by the dairy sector, a high level expert group (hlg) was set up to examine the long and medium term provisions applicable to the sector. in its report, supported by the agri committee, the ghn points out, among other recommendations, that action should be taken to improve the concentration of supply, which remains low and leads to an imbalance in terms of bargaining power between farmers and dairies. in order to ensure the future stability of the sector, the ghn advocates strengthening the bargaining power of producers, which should lead to a more equitable distribution of value added throughout the chain. i also welcome the proposal to create a european legal framework allowing the setting up of inter-branch organisations in the milk sector.
in writing. - i welcome the report on contractual relations in the milk sector, as it strengthens the bargaining power of milk producers. the aim is to enable dairy farmers to negotiate common contractual terms, including prices, with dairies. although i believe that formal written contracts are useful, inter alia, to raise awareness among stakeholders, i welcome the fact that it is up to the member states to decide whether or not they want to make these contracts binding. i also welcome the strengthening of trade associations, as they can facilitate dialogue between the players in the dairy sector and also promote best practice and create market transparency.
in writing. - mr cornelissen's report contains many sensible recommendations which were rightly supported by a large majority in this parliament. there are also some politically correct passages, as is bad practice, and a lot of euro-jargon is used, but we would like to cover that with the cloak of love. but i cannot understand why in a report like this not a word is said about the unbearable burden of non-european immigration on our jobs, on our social security and on our societies in general. this taboo on a problem which may well become the problem of the 21st century should be unbearable to responsible people. we are not going beyond the classic narrative of the fight against discrimination of all kinds in this report, and that is that while the immigration problem is growing to a scarcely manageable size, it is being exacerbated by the advance of a particularly hateful islamist fanaticism which is finding a breeding ground there. that is not the only reason, but the main reason why i did not approve this report in the end.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr mario, both my group and the spinelli group are proud that you have become president of the council of the italian republic. i think he is doing an impressive job because in a few weeks he has put italy on the right track, implementing deep structural reforms which are necessary not only for the country but also for europe. my dear friends, we finally have a real federalist in the european council! i will not continue in italian. i am more qualified to talk about italian wine than italian politics. dear prime minister, dear mario, naturally i think what you need today is more than compliments. what you need now from our parliament and from our colleagues in the european council is more than just vocal or moral support. what you need today is concrete support from this parliament and from the european council mainly, a plan and a proposal to reduce interest rates for everyone in europe. we should remember that italy, even after all the reforms, is today paying exactly three times the interest rate of germany this morning it was 1.9% for germany and 5.7% for italy and this cannot continue if we want to recover from this euro crisis. we can do two things. first of all, it's important to remember that we can establish the redemption fund. it is a german idea so it is a good idea to create a redemption fund, a fund of eur 2.3 trillion that, as you know, would mutualise debt above 60 percent and that could really reduce interest rates, not only for italy but for all countries, including germany. you should realise, mr monti, that only two weeks ago this parliament called, in a resolution, for the establishment of this fund. the idea of a majority of members, i believe, is to link it to the current two-pack legislation that we are discussing. it is the best system because i do not think that the european central bank can continue forever to do what it is doing at the moment, namely inject money every two or three months. in the longer term i think a common bond market is a very obvious idea as you indicated, and i was very pleased with your intervention. as mr monti has said (and this is an important message), this instrument would create not only solidarity but also real discipline in our monetary system. it would in any case be a better and more structural solution than doing what we are doing now. we have already put 1 trillion euros of taxpayers' money into resolving the crisis; we have three member states under assistance programmes; and we now have the downgrading of the ratings of the main economies in the world - france, britain and perhaps tomorrow germany. this is a crisis that is causing thousands of europeans to live in hardship. so i think now is the time to have a structural solution and to let not only the taxpayers but also the financial institutions and the bondholders pay by means of a structural reform of the bond market in europe. my final remark is that italy is not greece i should say, on the contrary. i think that today greece should look at what is happening in italy. greece also needs structural reforms and to reduce its enormous public sector. it also needs to reform its political system and maybe, as i have already said to mr monti, it would be a good idea to send him to greece after he has finished his work in italy. he could be an excellent roving minister for the whole of europe where there are difficulties in the euro area. thank you mario.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, this is parliament's fourth resolution on syria and i would say that the added value of this resolution, which certainly hardened the tone and supported the diplomatic efforts, one of the added values is simply to say to the syrian people: 'but no, even if nothing moves, we do not forget you. even though we may repeat the same thing over and over again, we will not forget you!" that's something. the second thing i would like to say to you is that this resolution, like the speeches i have heard, does not answer the essential questions: what are we doing? what strategy are we following? no military strategy, i agree. i think that would be the worst thing. but the question that a member of the syrian national council asked me this morning, with tears in his eyes and showing me the videos from his country, where there are cases of appalling torture, is: are you going to give us weapons? are you going to give us money? we're not asking you to intervene for us, but are you going to help us? we want to fight ourselves. are you capable of that? and i said, it's not even in the resolution, because i'm told that the syrian opposition is not united enough, we don't have the right channels, etc. but if we don't answer this fundamental question, what credibility are we going to have? so i'm asking you to construct these answers. i'm not asking you to have them here, i'm not asking you to have them, but i'm telling you that's what's expected. the country expects us to do something concrete, too. the third thing i would like to say is about bashar al-assad. perhaps not many of us have believed for a long time that we could change the syrian regime. we met, some of us at length and sometimes personally, for an hour, an hour and a half, with the syrian president - i remember being in bashar al-assad's apartment, and he was explaining to me how his country had to change: the emergency law, multiparty system, etc. and we were fooled. today, when i hear promises of a new constitution, i say to myself: "all these promises, we believed in them". i'm not asking for bashar al-assad's head on a stake. i'm still sick of seeing saddam hussein strangled or seeing gaddafi's head on a spike. but i say he will be held accountable for his actions. we won't let that go. the international criminal court, it exists for crimes against humanity. and with that, i said to the syrian people, "wait, let's do something". but i really ask the council and the commission to work on concrete measures here, and i ask parliament to support this position.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, yesterday cathy ashton sent me a letter to indicate that she will be acting on behalf of the european union at the first contact group meeting on 24 february in tunis. this is good – but let us be honest, colleagues: what is the strategy that we will defend there? i have to tell you, minister, i did not hear it. you have given here the strategy and the request of the arab league, but what is the strategy of the european union? what is the current strategy towards syria? we are in the middle of this crisis; we have the problems around homs, which is clearly a second srebrenica. we are in the middle of a war at the moment in syria. i am asking you here: what is the strategy? it is not enough to say: ok, we will be there on the 24th in tunisia. but what will we say there? what is our position on the main issues? the main issues are whether we are in favour of humanitarian intervention in syria, creating safe zones and no-fly zones on the border with turkey and on the border with jordan and having corridors there. are we in favour of that? yes or no? i think they are absolutely necessary. there is currently genocide in syria. that is what is happening, and if we do not stop it with the international community, it can only continue. what we are seeing today is the second hama. the second question is whether we should give material and technical help to the syrian opposition and to the free syrian army. i think we have to give such help, and if it proves necessary at a particular time, weapon sales will be necessary – maybe not directly; we might arrange it through our colleagues in the arab league. but what is the european union’s answer? do we give material help: yes or no? they need it desperately. my third question to you is, what is happening with the sanction regime? we have known from the beginning that our list was too small and that at least 200 families in the regime of bashar al-assad have to be targeted. we started with 20, and then 30 and then 35 and then 40: that is the way we are going, targeting only the individuals and not the families. so my question is: are we now going to have a sanction regime which really targets the 200 big families? my fourth issue was mentioned by mr salafranca: what shall we do about russia and china? we have the opportunity possibly to say something to them about this matter. we had a mission to china, and we are currently promising them the status of a free market economy – this at a time when they are refusing to take their responsibility in the security council. is it the right time to do that? i do not think so. we have to wait until they have said yes to an intervention in syria – which is absolutely necessary. i want to hear from you the position of the european union, and i want you to tell me what you told us a few minutes ago. there will be a meeting of the ministers of foreign affairs on 27th; that you have said. the 27th is three days after the 24th. i think you should have your meeting before mrs ashton goes there. i think we are making exactly the same mistake we made in places like libya, among others. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – madam president, for the moment there is no agreement in the security council. if, however, we have an agreement in the contact group, that may change china’s and russia’s position. if china and russia see that the contact group, which will be established on 24 february, wants to move in any way to protect the people in syria, then i am sure that this will exert more pressure than any of the discussions in the security council that have taken place in recent months. but we have to stick to that. we have to show that we are really defending them and that we want to go in if it is necessary.
mr. chairman, we are all frustrated. since russia and china used their veto power in the security council last week, the brutal violence has been escalated even further. the situation seems hopeless and is likely to continue for a long time, with undoubtedly some very dramatic events to come. the gradual tightening of sanctions does not seem to have much of an impact on the assad regime for the time being. but the pressure is mounting. firstly, there is the remarkable ability of the arab league to act and also the clear commitment of turkey to this matter. secondly, there is no doubt that the economic sanctions weaken a number of the regime's pillars and thus also increase the isolation of the regime. so we must continue to increase pressure, including on countries like russia and china, which are still standing in the way of clear international condemnation. for example, i am in favour of very clearly drawing up a blacklist or something of companies that are still trading arms with syria or otherwise supporting the regime. given the complexity of the country, its place in the region and the many minorities, it is necessary that we offer a clear and credible perspective, a blueprint also for a new syria, in which the minorities who are still hesitant to leave the regime feel at home. in the short term, it is important that we as the european union take on this humanitarian task, provide food aid, medicine, also develop the idea of a corridor and finally join hands with the arab league and turkey to increase pressure further.
the resolution on the table today is fairly balanced and i can easily identify with most of the recommendations. i do regret that this parliament is avoiding the fundamental and structural problem of the un human rights council. that structural and fundamental problem is the fact that some of the world's greatest human rights abusers - for example china, cuba, saudi arabia, to name a few - can all be undisturbed members of that human rights council. that is unacceptable. only states which have a clean record of their own can and should teach other states how to do things. the fact that the aforementioned dictatorships are justified is turning the whole thing into a theatre of the absurd. that is a structural evil that must be addressed, otherwise the compliance procedures will never work adequately. i therefore hope that the parliament will adopt the amendments i have tabled to that effect tomorrow.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the directive on family reunification. the problem is not that some member states do not apply the directive or do not apply it sufficiently. the problem is that the whole philosophy of the directive is hopelessly out of date. family reunification and family formation are among the main sources of mass immigration in europe. very often these are people who cannot speak the language of the host country and who have no prospects of integration or employment. the little integration that has already been achieved is repeatedly destroyed by the arrival of relatives who have to start the whole process from scratch. it's moping with the faucet open. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we must get rid of the unilateralism of a directive which only allows member states to adopt a more lax policy, but not a stricter one. we must also urgently get rid of the delusion that the right to family life, which is enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, automatically means that family reunification can only take place in one of the european member states and not in the country of origin. it is time that the rights of immigrants are taken into account, as well as the rights of the member states and the rights of citizens and taxpayers in the member states. the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8))
"blue card" is the answer. president, i would like to say to mrs wikström that, in addition to emotional and sentimental considerations, it must also be possible to conduct a policy. the fact is that a very large proportion of this immigration of people who have no prospect of integration is taking place in the context of family reunification, that there are a great many abuses in this policy of family reunification, which we as policy-makers must take into account. it is not just people who have to come here in very difficult circumstances, but we have to see if there is not much of that family reunification possible in the country of origin, and there is.
president, unfortunately, these guidelines for the 2013 budget go no further than a few generalities about 'responsibility and restraint in the budgetary field'. that is absolutely a total understatement. we should have put forward concrete proposals to stop the throwing of tax money through doors and windows in all the european institutions. the fact that we have to invest 50 million euros and 11 million euros a year in operating costs for a house of european history, on top of the 21 million euros that our parlamentarium, our visitor centre, has already cost, is not justifiable. travel costs of up to eur 26 000 per participating member of parliament are not justifiable. a luxury film award that does not interest a cat, but which costs 570,000 euros a year, that is not defensible. subsidies to european political parties, which amount to 30 million euros this year alone, are not justifiable. i can give you 100 more examples of this. this is a scandal.
in writing. - i did not vote for the joint resolution because the hungarian government has been given until mid-march by the european commission to amend its legislation. it is only natural that we should wait for the outcome of this formal procedure before taking such a strong stand here and threatening to use the article 7 cannon. in exactly one month we shall know whether the hungarian government is prepared to meet the commission's requests. if not, the commission must take action. in the other case, i think the ground for a new resolution is off the table.
in writing. freedom, democracy, equality, non-discrimination and respect for fundamental rights are the core values of the european union. some seem to take what is happening in hungary for granted. but it is not insignificant. what is happening in hungary is tragic for the very idea of the european project which embodies humanism, openness, solidarity, progress, justice and equality - in a word, universality. the european project is the rejection of intolerance, nationalism and withdrawal from society. what i find offensive about the measures taken is the grave sin of partiality. we are trying to set up a partial state, a state in the service of a political force. these measures, which are translated into legislative and/or constitutional acts, are turning a european country from a democratic regime into an authoritarian regime. now, the fear of saying, of denouncing, of expressing an independent opinion exists. this change from a democratic regime to an authoritarian regime in a european country is very serious for the very idea of the european project. we've crossed the line. we cannot accept what i call "the tyranny of the majority". we cannot join the european union and violate its founding principles.
in writing. − it is clear that countries belonging to the european union must respect the basic rules of democracy; i am not opposed to objective observers looking into whether or not there are problems. that said, some may well be putting their hands in their own bosom here. a few years ago, laws were voted in flanders and special courts were set up to ban the country's largest, most popular party. and in most european countries there are actual muzzle-loading laws to muzzle free speech on the enormous immigration and crime problems in the name of so-called anti-racism. just recently, france voted a law to impose a new official and inviolable historical truth, this time about the armenian genocide. anyone who questions the official truth is severely punished. these are all matters of particular concern. it is time that this parliament paid attention to this.
in writing. this agreement, which is important both economically but also politically and geostrategically, further strengthens the ties between morocco and the eu. on the economic front, it is a great opportunity for the development of the euro-mediterranean area, stimulating the economic reforms needed to establish a wider, safer and more balanced free trade area in the mediterranean, developing employment and limiting migration. while it offers morocco access to a market of more than 500 million consumers, european agriculture will not be left behind, particularly as regards milk and cereals. politically and geostrategically, europe must support countries like morocco in their efforts to implement democratic reforms. we must help to consolidate democracy peacefully.
in writing. the eu must continue to press for an end to the unnamed situation in syria. the eu must continue to strengthen the sanctions it has imposed for months. it is about fighting crimes against humanity committed every day for almost a year against a population that demands more freedom and democracy. it is high time that a peacekeeping force was set up, which would be responsible for providing humanitarian aid. it is high time to press for the departure of bashar al-assad, to create pockets of protection and humanitarian corridors, to ban syrian airspace, to protect and support the free syrian army (fsa). we cannot be witnesses or even accomplices to these massacres which indiscriminately target women, men and children. the european commission has decided to release an initial emergency aid of €3 million to alleviate the suffering of the syrian people. we can only applaud this initiative.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after welcoming the work of the rapporteurs, mrs pietikäinen and mrs sophie in 't veld, i would like to make the following observation: the debate is continuing, things are progressing, but the problems remain, and this is not due to a lack of effort. i would particularly like to commend the work done by commissioner viviane reding in relation to her strong positions - we must dare to say so - in the face of a relatively conservative economic world and i will focus on the issue of quotas, moving towards parity, as our colleague kiil-nielsen said, which would obviously be desirable. but quotas are a necessary evil, i must say. it has been shown in the public political sphere that, in order to have a better representation of women, we had to come up with binding laws that eventually, perhaps, one day, will prefigure a natural tendency within societies. it is clear that this is not the case in the corporate world. we are faced here with a real conservatism, particularly from the economic sphere but also from its representatives in the employers' world who say that they are making efforts, but we are getting nowhere. if we do not do this, we will achieve nothing. the corporate world is often not short of advice on the political sphere, asking us to apply good governance. for once we can pay them back and ask them to take inspiration from what has been done in political society, in the public sphere, the commission, the european parliament, but also, perhaps, from the norwegian example which has shown its relevance, since in ten years the proportion of women on boards has gone from 9% to 42% thanks to a binding law on parity.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i did not intend to interfere in the debate, but mr audy, we must remain serious. when i hear that half of the emigrants must leave france, as president sarkozy has said, and when i see him attacking halal meat and at the same time attacking the other partners in the schengen area, i wonder who the candidate of the extreme right is. is it le pen or sarkozy? (applause from the centre) i wonder about that. when i see the evolution of this election campaign, i think that we have never seen this in any other country. a sitting french president using that language is the problem today. so let me return to the debate we were having before mr audy intervened. first of all i would like to congratulate president van rompuy. european councils come and go and i feel that i note a terrible complacency. do we really believe, as was said, that we have reached a turning point in the crisis? do we really believe that the efforts of mr monti and mr rajoy will be enough to put an end to the crisis, that the fiscal compact will put an end to the mess, and that it is sufficient to merge the two rescue funds with eur 750 billion? do you really think that will end the crisis? i think that what is happening for the moment is completely different. what is happening for the moment is that we are seeing a calming down of the bond markets because mr draghi has bought us time. he has printed eur 1 trillion worth of new money. that is what mr draghi has done and that is what we are feeling today: the effect of printing new money eur 1 trillion. i do not think that is a real structural solution to this crisis. it could work for a few months or a few weeks, but it will not be a structural solution to this crisis. in fact we all know what the structural solution for this crisis is. we all know that we need a partial mutualisation of the debt. i was at the us treasury in washington and they said that we should do this create our redemption fund, a structural solution for it. the same thing at the international monetary fund. i think that everywhere they can see the light. it is only in europe that we do not see the light. we know what it is. it is to mutualise debt above 60% so that everybody pays lower interest rates, including germany. this is in compliance with the constitutional law in germany, it is compliant with the international and european treaties and it is a fund of eur 2.3 trillion. that is the real firewall. you talk all the time about a firewall, but there's no firewall even if you merge the two rescue funds. that is a fire extinguisher, not a firewall. it is there if you need it when there is a problem a crisis in greece, in portugal, in ireland but not a real firewall around the big economies like spain and italy. for that you need a real redemption fund. and i can assure mr van rompuy and mr barroso that i think there is a clear majority on this in this parliament: we shall not adopt any new legislation related to the euro crisis unless it contains such a proposal. finally, a few words on syria. yesterday 47 bodies were found in homs the bodies of women and children, stabbed, burned, tortured and kofi annan reports that they don't seem to really understand the reality in damascus. i think the time is now right to do something. let's stop all flights to syria. let us send back all the syrian ambassadors. let us prevent all assad's friends from traveling and let us do what president obama is doing, namely looking into all options humanitarian corridors, safe havens, assistance to the free syrian army, be it technical or otherwise. but we have to do something and not what we are doing for the moment, which is nothing at all in this case. otherwise there is only one outcome that is that syria will become a new srebrenica, a new sudan, a new rwanda and we shall be complicit in that. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149 (8))
the answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, i think i was the first to denounce the dutch government's silence on the website issue. i must remind my dear friend, mr daul, that this is a christian-democratic government with the liberals. maybe he forgot. i have, however, telephoned mr rutte, but i do not know whether mr daul has telephoned mr maxime verhagen. i have to tell you that this afternoon i'm going to be very clear. i will support a joint resolution on the website because the silence of the dutch government is intolerable. but i prefer the silence of this dutch government to the noise mr sarkozy is making at the moment about the xenophobic and racist affair.
mr president, people lose confidence in europe because its leaders are misdiagnosing the euro crisis. in 2010 mr barroso said the euro is a protection shield against the crisis, but the euro fuelled the crisis – cheap money generated debt and bubbles. last year mr van rompuy said the fundamentals of the euro are sound, yet the euro caused a huge competitiveness gap in its own zone. last year he said that stress tests show that european banks were doing well; recently the ecb injected eur 1 trillion to prevent their collapse. last weekend he said the worst of the crisis is behind us; on the same day, german minister of finance mr schäuble, said greece may need a third bail-out. the day before, the president of the ecb, mr draghi, predicted that there was more economic contraction to come, and spain announced it would break the fiscal compact shortly after signing it. even the dutch government, the headmaster of fiscal discipline, is struggling. mr van rompuy and mr barroso, are you amazed that ordinary citizens do not believe you any more?
the european council conclusions of 1 and 2 march, at the very end, in the section 'other items', in paragraph 45, to be precise, dedicate two lines to the fact that herman van rompuy was reappointed president of the european council. my sincere congratulations, mr van rompuy, but it may be an indication that there is something wrong with the democratic legitimacy of the whole way the european union works. you have spoken of a turning point and said that the banks are prepared to forgive a large part of the greek debt. i am afraid that you are giving the matter a little too much of a rosy picture, because, of course, nothing has changed in the main. greece will soon receive fresh billions and then it will just be waiting again until money is needed again. we are all going to continue to struggle with no prospect of improvement. it is in the interest of the eurozone, but also in the interest of the greeks themselves, that greece should be supported in its exit from the eurozone. only in this way can greece be helped in the long term, because it is now trapped in a monetary union for which it is simply not competitive enough. another rescue operation won't change that. instead of keeping the greek people hostage to this whole story, the european establishment would do better to admit that it was a mistake to admit greece into monetary union and that this mistake needs to be corrected.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, this debate on the adjustment fund and the extension of the 'crisis' criterion is of particular interest to me, because it seems to me that, apart from the non-extension of the 'crisis' criterion, the fund itself is being targeted, particularly by certain member states who no longer want to hear about union social action. however, in the context of the union's action on restructuring, the egf tool is fundamental. this fundamental character is exacerbated by the crisis and the current situation where the european citizen is losing confidence in the union. the increase in the number and volume of applications every year since 2006 is proof of this. the fund is also recognised as a perfect tool, but an effective one, because it is highly individualised and adapted to the needs of dismissed workers in each specific case, whether in terms of training adapted to the needs of the region or aid for job search. moreover, this anti-action position of the union on employment and social affairs is in total contradiction with the council conclusions on growth and employment. to move forward on this path, we must invest in instruments such as the egf and not rely solely on the completion of the internal market. at the time of the white paper on pensions, keeping older people in employment and raising the effective retirement age were quite generally stated as necessities. the fund, particularly in the context of the crisis, can and must contribute to this. finally, the commission's proposal to include farmers is another indication of this desire to 'dethrottle'. the union's social instruments are too few to be used as hybrid instruments and without coherence as in this proposal. mr president, it is essential to ensure the future of a fund which meets real needs, and therefore the crisis. is the question really one of whether or not the criterion of 'crisis' applies, or of the desire of some to deny the social role of the union?
this report on equality between men and women in the european union, which - if i am not mistaken - was voted on in committee by one man and 27 women, is full of politically correct platitudes and of the enormous european meddling in everything and everything. i therefore did not approve it, although i myself am of course - as many people are fortunate - fully convinced of the need for equal rights for men and women. it is striking that this report has a sharp focus on everything except the great taboo of today, the advance in europe of an extremist and by definition discriminatory islam. the arab spring is mentioned for a moment, but there is a great deal of silence about the problem of islam in our own european countries, from the symbol of subjugation of the headscarf to the horror of circumcision. my conclusion on that is: shame on all of us.
i voted against the report on equality between men and women in the european union because a number of legitimate concerns, such as equal pay for equal work, are drowned in a dredge of political correctness that is alien to the world. for example, there is talk of multiple discrimination, of which immigrant women are victims. why is it so hard to tell the difference between a man and a horse? why is it so hard to say that this is about the subordinate position of women in islam? it's a little easy to pretend that all cultures are equal and equal, and then come to complain that women have to live in a subordinate position within islam. it is quite crazy to say that there must be perfect parity between the vice-presidents of the european parliament. let's just have free elections, where everyone can participate, and judge people on their abilities and their ideas, rather than their gender.
equal rights for men and women, which are the achievements of men and women, are a principle which i believe no sensible person can doubt. that is one of the main reasons why i think that islam, for example, is totally incompatible with the principles of the democratic rule of law as we are fortunate to know them in europe. but, having said that, i remain absolutely opposed to the quota system to artificially increase the representation of women in political decision-making. it is the task of the electorate, of which 50% are women, to elect their representatives. there are probably more men than women who are actively interested in politics at the moment. this is not just a result of discrimination. if we as adults could agree to that, that would be a step forward. but no, that is clearly not possible, and so we are left with this report in the realm of the squeaky-voiced statements on the western wall, and that is unfortunate.
we have just voted on a report on equality between men and women in the eu. the pietikäinen report advocates the opposite, as it openly advocates preferential treatment for women. and that turns the clock back 50 years and just replaces sexism against women with a politically correct kind of sexism, sexism against men. this report wants to impose everything on the member states, even on the political parties in the member states. they would also be obliged to take account of gender differences in their governing bodies. now, these kinds of cases are an insult, an affront to all capable and active women. so let's stop this nonsense and start judging people on what they can do, instead of their gender.
in writing. this agreement extends to norway and iceland the rules on mutual legal assistance already in force and widely applied in the member states. it will undoubtedly help to combat crossborder crime and strengthen cooperation with two countries already in the schengen area and, as regards iceland, in the process of negotiations with a view to its accession to the union. i particularly welcome the possibility, expressly provided for in article 3 of that agreement, of involving eurojust in cases where a request is refused by a member state or where problems arise in the execution of a request.
in writing. the european parliament has voted in favour of legislation to clarify the legal status of crossborder successions in europe. at 450,000 a year, crossborder inheritances would represent 10% of the total inheritances in the european union, amounting to €123 billion. the resolution we adopted today by a large majority provides that the law applicable shall be, by default, that of the country of the last habitual residence of the deceased. the law of the country in which you reside may also apply to your property. in addition, the creation of a european certificate of succession will make it possible to settle crossborder successions quickly and easily by giving heirs the opportunity to prove their status and rights in another member state. with this new regulation, we will avoid legal conflicts and lengthy succession procedures in the future when the laws of several eu countries apply. the council and the commission have already informally given their agreement, so that the text should be adopted by the council without difficulty when it is examined.
in writing. by adopting the sophia in 't veld report, we have opened the way to quotas for women in senior positions in companies. the report clearly calls on the commission to legislate to increase the number of women on company boards to 30% by 2015 and to 40% by 2020. if viviane reding, the european commissioner for fundamental rights, decides, after the results of the consultation, to introduce such quotas, she now knows that she will have the support of parliament, so that is done! let us not forget that belgium was one of the pioneering member states in this respect. i'm glad you did!
in writing. 101 years after the first international women's day, one conclusion is clear: inequalities persist, including in the european union. the vote this afternoon on the report by in 't veld on gender equality in the union in 2011 is important in this respect. there is no shortage of goodwill, but attitudes change little and the glass ceiling remains as strong as ever. i strongly support two of the priorities. the first is the one aimed at eliminating violence against women. the trivialization of them in all their forms (physical, sexual, psychological or economic) is worrying. in belgium, domestic violence is the leading cause of death for women aged 15 to 44. the other priority concerns the objective of equal pay for men and women in equal jobs and degrees. there is no reason why women should earn on average 17.5% less than their male partners. i should also like to say a word about the quota policy promoted in the report. i do not think that compensating for inequality of fact by inequality of law is the right solution and influences a real change in mentality. because that is the goal to be achieved!
in writing. by adopting mrs pietikäinen's report today (508 votes in favour, 124 against and 49 abstentions), we called on the member states and the commission to use legislative measures to establish gender equality and asked the european institutions to extend it to all levels. the proportion of women in political decision-making has not changed in recent years and in some decision-making bodies has even declined. the report therefore calls on national governments to propose, after the 2014 european elections, both a woman and a man as candidates for the posts of european commissioners. we also felt that the role of the european institute for gender equality should be strengthened. the result of this vote shows that parliament has the political will to take active measures to increase parity, and i welcome that!
in writing. the presence of women in politics is a real priority for achieving genuine equality between men and women. it is therefore important to take measures to enable women to reconcile their working and family lives and to remove the barriers to their political involvement. the media can also play a major role in promoting women's access to politics. they must end stereotypes and support the introduction of women in leadership positions. finally, it is important to encourage women from ethnic minorities. the latter are often ousted on grounds of gender and ethnic criteria. balanced representation between men and women is essential for a stable and transparent democracy.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report. the primary objective of the bologna process is that a student enrolled in a european university has the right to obtain a degree and to have it recognised throughout the union. the creation of an open higher education area in europe is a great success that must be consolidated!
in writing. − in times when stability and growth are at the centre of much discussion, unrestricted student mobility would be an initiative that does not require financial investment but would be one of the most sustainable ways of promoting the 'european knowledge base'. the logical consequence and a milestone in european integration policy would be that students in all countries could thus obtain a degree in any eu country.
in writing. the lisbon document points to a worrying situation: european universities provide quality education but fail to promote economic growth or employment. this is particularly worrying in the light of the current economic situation. furthermore, the european union's objective is 'to become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth accompanied by a quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment and greater social cohesion'. in view of this objective, it is essential to consolidate the bologna process and to achieve the goals set by the europe 2020 strategy. this resolution is essential to deal with the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. 20% of graduates will have completed part of their studies or traineeship abroad by 2020. this is the objective of student mobility announced by the european commission. this is part of the europe 2020 strategy. this is an ambitious, if not unattainable, goal in the light of the reality of the current figures. student and teacher mobility in europe is in its infancy: less than 4 students out of 100 have benefited so far. the report by mr berlinguer, which was voted on this afternoon, is timely. it points out that there are too many barriers to overcome in the area of recognition of diplomas and study facilities abroad, and suggests some interesting possibilities. parliament called on the member states to redouble their efforts to strengthen the coherence of the bologna process. this includes cooperation between universities, mutual recognition of ects credits and university degrees, and increased financial support. access to education is a universal value. it must be guaranteed throughout the european union. a mobility rate of 3.5% is unworthy and may disappoint the erasmus generation.
in writing. accurate and high-quality data are essential for sustainable and balanced regional development. indeed, in the demographic, economic and environmental sectors, statistics can be valuable for making decisions on regional development. reliable and detailed information can therefore enable the union to respond more effectively to economic or territorial realities. it is therefore necessary to develop a common methodology and to find effective solutions which will help to improve confidence in statistical agencies. finally, support should be given to eurostat, which wants to establish a legal framework for 'commitments on statistical trust'.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we made that clear right away. it is actually unacceptable and it is a shame that such a thing is still possible today in the 21st century. but of course, this initiative does not just fall from the sky. this initiative is not accidental. the real reason for this initiative by mr wilders' party is the sudden loss of 7 seats for his party in the opinion polls at the beginning of january. it was the first time this had happened to wilders' party. and the reason was simple. mr wilders was constantly criticizing. he had spat at queen beatrix when she wore a headscarf on a state visit to oman. he began to attack her and wilders' criticism of their queen hit the wrong throat with the dutch. so what did mr wilders do? immediately found another topic to throw it over another bow. and this time it wasn't the royal family that was the victim, this time it's the eastern european. he opened a checkpoint against the presence in the netherlands of poles, slovaks, bulgarians and other eastern europeans. that's the real reason for this checkpoint. that said, i fully agree with mr daul that the dutch government's silence is not acceptable. and whether this is a party issue or not, as the dutch government claims, is not really relevant. i think we all have a right to know what the dutch authorities really think of an initiative by one of their illustrious citizens somewhere on their territory. i can tell you, mr daul, that i have at least spoken to prime minister rutte personally about it. i hope that you will do the same with mr verhagen because, as you know, this is not only a position of mr rutte, it is a position of the government of the netherlands, and therefore of the two parties in power. it would be interesting if you too would intervene so that the dutch government can take a position. in the end, we also know that what is happening in holland is not a unique fact at the moment. it is something more serious in europe. when i see, for example, your candidate for the french presidency saying that half of the emigrants must be put abroad, stigmatising the muslim community, threatening european partners and endangering the schengen acquis, i must tell you that this is also language and behaviour that must not be accepted today. you already did this this morning and asked me who was really the candidate of the extreme right, him or mme le pen? in any case, what we must not do, and have not done with the resolution, is to mask the things that are here. when there are things that happen to hollande, we must denounce them. when there are things that happen in france, we must denounce them. and when there are things happening in hungary, we must denounce them as a whole! (applause) the president accepted the reply to a question 'carton bleu' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – madam president, i have no problem in recognising what mr saryusz-wolski is saying. i hope that the dutch government is not just quiet on this for the moment but that they are examining this problem, based on the rules that exist in holland and at the same time based on the rules that exist in the european union. for me this case is not closed – on the contrary – and for me also the response that was given by ms reding is not the end. i want there to be a follow-up on this and i want there to be a clear statement from the political side in holland that this is not tolerable at all, based on the legislation on data protection – and because they have received a number of complaints from individuals about other citizens living in europe and in holland – and at the same time based also on the other legislation in europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
"blue card" is the answer. mr hans van baalen, who is the leader of the vvd delegation, has clearly resigned and has asked prime minister rutte to resign from the initiative. what i notice is that the coalition party in the netherlands apparently does not dare to do so. i've said that before. i was in amsterdam three days ago, introducing hans van mierlo's book 'the mad adventure' and saying that the silence of the catshuis - the residence of the prime minister in the hague in the netherlands - is in fact unacceptable. but the position of both liberal parties in my group has been clear and unambiguous, including the vvd and mr van baalen.
"blue card" question. what is it? i have listened to you very carefully, mr cornelissen. you compare the situation to the film "the lives of others", a film about the communist dictatorship in the former east germany, where people were spied on for their political opinions and where a different political opinion could lead to imprisonment, to loss of income, to consequences for the children, etc. do you think it is intelligent to compare this situation in a totalitarian society to, ochgottekes, a website that asks not to report the presence of eastern european foreigners, but criminal acts committed by foreigners? i think one is really not comparable to the other, or do you?
the union can and must play a role in stimulating this competitiveness, and the competitiveness of an economy does not lie solely in the cost of wages. we all agree. a trained workforce, living and working under social protection conditions, in a state where the private and public sectors invest in research, with cutting-edge transport and communication infrastructures, is a workforce that will contribute to the competitiveness of the union. we have been calling for months for a more sensible management of the crisis, focusing not only on budgetary savings but also on investment for growth, jobs and social inclusion. however, the economic governance texts continue to threaten wage indexation systems which are useful for maintaining internal consumption and collective labour agreements. unacceptable statements against the european social model are being made at the highest level. do you not think that all these ideas, particularly on certain social protections, on the budgets of the member states and on the union's budget, which have an undeniable added value and leverage effect, are in reality obstacles to the competitiveness we so much want?
i thank the commissioner for his answer and i think that it must be in the context of a dialogue that we find out what is best for certain countries, depending on what is happening historically in those countries and, perhaps, see if we cannot generalize what is happening in certain countries. perhaps as a complement to this question, and again in the same field, what do you think should be done to avoid imbalances in minimum income and minimum wage which should be established at european level?
of course, the restoration of competitiveness and economic growth does not happen with one measure. many measures must be taken. and of course, now - mr barnier has already referred to this - a huge amount of new regulation is being unleashed on the financial market. but small and mediumsized enterprises are still the real engine of economic growth in europe, and this new financial regulation has in many cases also had a negative effect on lending to these small and mediumsized enterprises. my question is very specific: how will the commission continue to meet the urgent need for credit for small and mediumsized enterprises? the second question concerns the internal market. it is clear that the ten-t and the connecting europe facility can play an important role in encouraging and strengthening the internal transport market. however, it is very difficult to convince member states to accept this project and there is a great deal of opposition from the council to the selection of a number of trans-european projects which are cross-border. how will the commission ensure that the european interest is also kept at the forefront in the ten-t and in the connecting europe facility?
of course, in the debate on transeuropean networks, some member states continue to raise barriers, including to the provision of capital to small and mediumsized enterprises. my question is very specific. the european commission has been given a number of new powers in the field of economic governance. it is also possible that it could use it to overturn a number of measures which are hindering growth, which member states sometimes propose today, also in the context of budgetary control. how can the european commission ensure that growth-enhancing measures are taken in these various budgets?
the european union is importing 80% of its cocoa from west africa. we are all aware of the many and countless reports on child labour. it's a worrying one. as a union we also provide the strongest chocolate industry. so we have a responsibility, we have to do something about these conditions. we must ensure that there are good conditions, both economically and socially. and it is good that we bring child labour into this debate. the resolution by mr moreira is a good one. it indicates one of two ways in which we can prevent child labour. one of those two ways is to ensure greater cooperation, by exchanging know-how, by ensuring that everyone works well together and indeed to ensure a distribution sector in which cocoa which is subject to child labour has no chance. but the second way, ladies and gentlemen, is to ensure fair prices, good prices. and the international cocoa agreement should do more about it, should have hands and teeth to do something about it. because let's face it, if we have good prices, people can earn their money. when there are low prices, there is poverty. poverty leads to child labour, so ensuring fair prices is an absolute necessity and is an element in this discussion.
in writing. once again, we are called upon to defend the working conditions of an entire sector. i would remind you that cocoa is one of the most sought-after commodities in the world after coffee and sugar and that the largest part of the value added in the production chain goes to the nordic countries. of the total cost of producing a chocolate bar, less than 5% goes to the countries of the south. so the big chocolate companies seem to have forgotten that they are entirely dependent on millions of small cocoa farmers. moreover, while the international labour organization estimates that 215 million children are forced to work worldwide, more than 250,000 work on cocoa plantations in west africa, and 15,000 are enslaved. the reason is simple: farmers cannot make a profit from their work, so they are forced to look for cheap labour. we must therefore demand effective legislation from the commission to combat forced child labour in the cocoa sector and put pressure on all actors in the supply chain so that farmers can be paid fairly for their work.
for the greens/efa group in its resolution of 15 september 2011, in the run-up to the un summit on non-communicable diseases, the european parliament already indicated that europe has a strong interest in a comprehensive approach and should also complement the policies of the competent authorities in the member states. we also organised a joint meeting in the european parliament in october 2010 of the diabetes working group, the heart group, the members against cancer and the meps' group on kidney health, which i chair, who also stressed the importance of coordinated action. prevention is essential and possible because the risk factors for all these diseases are known. and from that point of view, i am a little disappointed that this house has partly abandoned the common approach and has worked out a specific resolution on diabetes. the added value of last year's resolution escapes me a little, because it also ignores other non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular disease, cancer and respiratory diseases. but i have no problem with the content of the resolution, and we will support it.
mr president, you mentioned that my country was really in shock because of this terrible bus accident and, as i speak, the parents of the children are gathered in a school and do not yet know whether their child has died or not because we do not yet have the identities. i don't think the country has ever had an accident like this. you said it yourself: 22 children were killed, the escorts, the bus driver, and there are wounded in very serious condition. i would like to thank - because i shall not have the opportunity to do so this afternoon - president martin schulz, who telephoned me at 7.15 this morning to say that he shared the sadness of the belgians and that he would observe a minute's silence at noon, when there will be more people in this chamber. thank you again for your compassion.
i can only agree with mrs de keyser. it's a terrible accident that happened. i think this is the worst news parents can hear about their children. we are all therefore in sympathy with it, and i am also pleased that the president has announced - my group leader daul's cabinet has also asked mr schultz's cabinet to do so - that this afternoon, if there are more people present, we will observe a minute's silence, because this is a tragedy that affects us all and we must show that we share the very deep sorrow of all the parents and relatives involved.
in writing. in 1988, europe banned imports of beef from animals treated with growth hormones. in 1999 the united states and canada, with the backing of the wto, imposed customs sanctions on many european products (such as chocolate) in retaliation. the ep has today approved a regulation increasing by 20,000 tonnes (currently set at 48,200 tonnes) the annual community tariff quota for imports into the eu of high-quality us and canadian beef from cattle not treated with growth hormones. the agreement allows the eu to maintain the ban on imports of hormone-treated cattle in exchange for increased import quotas for high-quality beef from the us and canada and the removal of sanctions on certain european products. this is therefore a crucial step towards ending a dispute that has lasted for more than a decade. i welcome this because it is a victory for european diplomacy, but above all it is a victory for respect for european consumers! the united states and canada have failed to impose hormones on us, the europeans did not want to!
in writing. the report on the autonomous tariff quota for imports of high-quality beef was approved by the house at noon. the term is not very evocative, but it is essential in that it puts an end to the war between the "hormone ox" and the "hormone cow". a relief for european consumers, farmers and distributors, bringing to an end 20 years of trade disputes between the old and the new continent! condemned by the world trade organisation for refusing to import hormone-treated beef from the united states and canada and subjected to trade retaliation measures worth millions of euros each year, the european union has always refused to compromise on its principles, considering that european consumers cannot be deceived about the quality of imported meat. the agreement allows for the permanent lifting of sanctions in exchange for import quotas of high-quality, hormone-free beef from the us and canada. a win-win solution for farmers and consumers, in europe and america, and one that takes the hormone-laden beef off our plates for good!
the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 10 tonnes. the trade dispute arose from the total ban on the use of hormones in livestock farming in the european union. the us and canada are now allowed to import 48,200 tonnes of high-quality non-hormone treated beef into the eu free of duty every year. in return, the almost 100 million euro of trade sanctions imposed on agricultural products annually will be removed forever. the agreement is of great political significance. the eu maintained the hormone ban and its own food standards. despite a wto condemnation, the eu market is not supplied with hormone-treated meat from the usa and canada. all imported meat is fattened under the supervision of eu inspectors on farms, which ensure that no hormones are applied. the agreement proves that you can consistently apply your own standards to imported agricultural products, even if they are formally contrary to wto rulings. moreover, the increase in imports of beef from the usa and canada from 21 500 tonnes per year to 48 200 tonnes will not have a negative impact on the european beef market, as the import quota represents only 0,36% of the total eu beef and veal market.
in writing. by deciding to set up a special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, meps have become aware that the problem of the mafia, crime and money laundering must be dealt with not only at national level but also at european and international level. it's a strong message that's being sent to criminal organizations. in a europe which is fighting for respect for human rights, we had to tackle this kind of intolerable medieval practice which is rampant on european soil. it is time we took effective measures to prevent mafia organizations from entering the legal economy and/or infiltrating political circles. the new commission, which will assess the scale of organised crime, corruption and money laundering and its impact on the european union and its member states, will take measures to ensure that the european union does not leave these crimes unpunished or beyond its control.
in writing. while it is important to encourage international cooperation within the global cocoa economy, to strengthen the economies of member countries, to ensure fair prices for both producers and consumers, we cannot ignore european values, including human rights and therefore children's rights. children may not be used as forced labour on cocoa plantations under any circumstances. the european union must promote responsible development and a smart economy by promoting children's education.
in writing. the main commodity agreement between cocoa exporters and importers, the international cocoa agreement aims to make global cocoa trade more equitable and sustainable. the new agreement, however, did not address the problem of child labour. this is why parliament adopted a resolution calling for action to be taken against the use of child labour in this sector. cocoa farming is a labour-intensive activity: 90% of the world's cocoa is grown by 5.5 million smallholders, and 14 million rural workers depend directly on its production, including children. the resolution calls on all parties in the cocoa value chain to assume their responsibilities in the fight against forced labour and child trafficking in the sector. parliament also called on the commission to consider draft legislation to combat cocoa products produced by child labour effectively and to encourage the signatory countries to the unctad agreement to take action to ensure traceability throughout the supply chain.
in writing. diabetes is one of the most widespread non-communicable diseases, affecting more than 32 million eu citizens. diabetes is a major issue in our society. in a decade, the number of people with diabetes has exploded. unfortunately, there is currently no cure for diabetes. in addition, many diabetics are discriminated against and prejudice remains widespread in schools, employment agencies, the workplace and insurance policies, which sometimes charge exorbitant premiums for proper coverage. it is urgent that the commission develops and implements a targeted union strategy on diabetes and supports the action of the member states. member states should develop national programmes and give priority to the prevention of type 2 diabetes and obesity through strategies to be implemented from an early age through education on healthy eating habits and physical exercise in schools. the patient must have access to health care and diabetes-related treatments.
in writing. on 29 february, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety unanimously adopted my report on the new regulation on specific foods. it was an opportunity to recall the obvious: the 32 million european citizens with diabetes must be the object of our full attention, but this does not necessarily require specific dietary standards. on the other hand, an eu-wide strategy to combat diabetes is essential, which is expected to increase by 16% by 2030 as obesity becomes endemic and the european population ages. the resolution adopted this afternoon on this non-communicable disease, which is responsible for 325 000 deaths in europe each year, is welcome. or would it be more accurate to talk about two diseases? while the risk factors for type 2 diabetes, such as poor or unbalanced diet, obesity, lack of physical activity, and alcohol consumption, have been clearly identified, we are a long way from the risk factors for type 1 diabetes. although some characteristics seem to be established: genetic cause, early onset and emergence of the disease mainly between 5 and 15 years. this is why we need more and more research funding and results on diabetes.
in writing. since 2010, the european council has decided to open the negotiating cycle for iceland's accession to the eu. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the 2011 report of these negotiations. iceland already cooperates extensively with the eu, as the country is already part of the european economic area and the schengen area, among other things. from an economic point of view, the country's situation is slowly but surely recovering. politically, the country has a long tradition of democracy and cooperation with northern europe and is very active in transatlantic cooperation. the majority support of the icelandic population for the continuation of the accession negotiations is a clear signal of the will of the icelandic people to move closer to european standards in all matters. it was also important to recall that the settlement of the icesave issue must be settled outside the accession negotiations and cannot constitute an obstacle to iceland's accession process.
in writing. iceland fulfils the copenhagen criteria and accession negotiations have been open since july 2010. a country with a democratic tradition, it already cooperates closely with the european union: it is a member of the european economic area, it has acceded to the schengen agreements and the dublin ii regulation. it has also already incorporated whole sections of the community acquis. while the accession of iceland still raises political divisions within the government, parliament and all the main political forces in the country, a significant proportion of icelanders remain in favour of continuing the negotiations. i welcome iceland's willingness to open all the negotiating chapters during the danish presidency and hope that the negotiations will continue successfully. however, divergences remain between the union and iceland as regards whaling and fishing. i believe that iceland's accession to the union would greatly broaden the union's prospects of playing a more active and constructive role in northern europe and the arctic region.
in writing. i welcome the resolution adopted by the european parliament on the 2011 report on bosnia and herzegovina. i welcome the political stabilisation of the country through the establishment of a national government capable of implementing the many reforms needed to continue on the path to accession. the challenges to be met are many, notably in relation to the country's economic situation with a high rate of youth unemployment, the reduction of bureaucratic burdens and the fight against corruption. in this context, parliament urged the new government to give priority to the reforms needed for bosnia and herzegovina's accession to the world trade organisation in order to encourage an even more positive business climate and attract more foreign investment. however, it should be noted that the country has cooperated very well with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, whose requests are answered promptly and appropriately. the efforts to resolve the outstanding issues between bosnia-herzegovina, serbia and croatia, which have intensified in recent months, are proof of the willingness of bosnia. volunteering is something to be encouraged.
"blue card" question. what is it? thank you, mr president, i am glad that you are allowing me to put another question to mr swoboda. i have listened carefully to your fine words, mr swoboda, but can we really talk about elections here? elections, that's a whole process, a process where certain rules are followed, where parties are recognized. you yourself have made a lot of criticism. so the final question to you is: are you prepared to recognize this as an election? are you prepared to recognize mr putin as president of the russian federation, knowing that there have been no free, normal and fair elections? that's the real question, right?
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, it is true, mr minister, that it is difficult for nigeria to imagine such a contrast, a very explosive cocktail of tensions. on the one hand, there is the extreme poverty of the people, especially in the north, and on the other hand, the immense oil wealth, which is exploited by companies that do not hesitate to pollute the waters of niger. we also have sectarian conflicts between the islamic north and the christian south, the presence of boko haram and therefore of hardline terrorism, which has caused two tragic deaths of hostages. there is still political corruption. there is social unrest against the backdrop of poverty, but you spoke - that's right - of the beginning of the emergence of a democracy, of nigerians taking charge of their own destiny. yet, violence is still their daily lot. the paradox of all this is that you actually see the role -- and you've described it well -- that nigeria plays at the international level and at the african level, in west africa in particular. it helps - you said it - to promote ecowas, which is based in abuja. it has increased its efforts to resolve conflicts. he has conducted mediation meetings in recent years in sudan, the democratic republic of congo and zimbabwe. he is involved in many un peacekeeping and un operations in africa. he even recently deployed an all-female police force to liberia. the nigerian people are not the only ones who are suffering from the effects of the war in the region. we ask that oil companies be required to be transparent, respect the environment and clean up the damage they have caused to the environment. there are whole amnesty international reports on the issue. we have called for the repeal of the law criminalising homosexuality, and then - i say this emphatically - it is a priority for my group to release the imprisoned trade unionists and, finally, to ensure a more equitable distribution of wealth and religious tolerance, intolerance being the breeding ground for terrorism.
the european parliament has called for the commission to take action to combat piracy. last year there were as many as 300 attacks and attempted attacks on ships in an area which a few years ago was confined to the horn of africa, the gulf of aden, but which now covers almost the entire western indian ocean. in the process, 25 ships were effectively hijacked and over 400 crew members were held captive. we also count 11 fatalities. in the first two months of this year there have been 35 attempted hijackings and three ships have been effectively hijacked. this situation leads to crew members risking their lives to carry out their work. but also that there is considerable economic damage, directly and indirectly, in the form of ransom payments, higher insurance premiums, detours to avoid dangerous areas, the operation atalanta itself, of course, higher food prices, etc., costs which all add up to many billions. consequently, additional and sustained action is required. although operation atalanta was extended until the end of 2014, in a few years the number of vessels actively contributing to the operation has been reduced from 35 to 10 and even to three vessels at the beginning of this year. the fight against piracy, of course, requires a global approach - you yourself have referred to this - in somalia itself, in the region. we also see clearly that the pressure on shipping companies is increasing day by day to ensure the safety of ships and their crews themselves through private security companies. so i think we should look at that. some eu flag states allow this, others do not. it is desirable that the european commission should come up with guidelines to regulate this clearly, for example by agreeing on training criteria for security agencies, procedures for being able to act armed, recording incidents, the type of weapons that can be kept on board. i would ask you to say something about this and to clarify your view. i would also ask you not to wait for the imo but to take action on this point and, of course, on other points which i am sure will be raised by other members.
i have to say, madam president, we are not new to piracy in this house. we had a resolution in 2009. we in the committee on transport do not want to make this a procedural issue either. we want to help people and we are quite willing to come together with the other committees who are concerned and can help to draw up a resolution. so, this is our approach, which we have also decided. the first thing that piracy on the high seas is a threat to people. as the honourable member has said before, it is also a threat to foreign trade, but also to local fisheries. that's another one to remember. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it must also be noted that in recent years, precisely because of this threat, this profession - which is a very interesting profession, even internationally recognized - has suffered greatly because of the threat to the local people. that is why we first of all want, and this was already included in the 2009 resolution, that the eu should take the initiative. the imo - with all due respect - is too lazy and too slow for us. we must take the initiative. in the legal framework, in certification, so that people who guarantee safety tomorrow do not end up in situations like the two colleagues from italy today, and tomorrow you will also have an uncertain framework there. so we have to tackle this problem, show more initiative at eu level, and then bring this to the international stage. that's what we expect. that is also something we want to discuss with the other committees without any problems.
we have a very important report before us and it seems to me very important that we send a clear signal, but that is still a little difficult to do here, if i hear the right side of the house. the council is not taking clear decisions today, and that has everything to do with the arguments i hear there. let me repeat - and perhaps the commissioner should bring this back to the council's discussions - that this is an important issue not only from the point of view of climate and global warming, but also from the economic point of view. by 2050, that economy has to be low carbon, there's no alternative. the question is whether we can make the decisions today, provide the legal framework, establish the right regulation, so that our industry has the certainty to invest, our governments have the means to do what needs to be done. it just takes courage! it is not worth arguing today that the time is not right and that the economy must be saved. the long-term economy needs to be saved, and that has everything to do with that low-carbon economy. i therefore hope, and i look to the people of good sense on the right, that we will soon decide unanimously and give the council and the rest of the world a clear signal, because that is what we will need to give our children a future too.
in writing. i am convinced that we as the eu are on the right track by making a strong commitment to a low-carbon and carbon-neutral society. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are 500 million in the eu, but unfortunately that is not enough to stop global warming on our own. we need to get china, india, the united states and other emerging countries on this path. that is why it is so important that five american nobel prize winners yesterday issued a very clear call to president obama to support the eu's measures to combat co2 emissions from aircraft. the cost of this measure is around 2 euros per ticket. we must not abandon this endeavour, because it obliges the other great powers to take a stand for their own public opinion and to make clear where they stand in the fight against global warming. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
much ado about nothing. i think that this shakespearean quote is the most appropriate for the predictable drama that this parliament has been playing around, ochgottekes, a website in the netherlands. just so we 're clear , i personally do not think that the website is a very happy initiative either, and i share in that regard the words of mr stadler, who will be speaking here later. but i do think that if there is a party in the netherlands which has always opposed unbridled legal or illegal immigration, including from eastern europe, if there is such a party, that party has every right to take stock of the opinions and experiences of voters and citizens. the european parliament has no business being involved in that. because we have to be careful when we put free speech on the line. that is a frightening sign of political correctness and we are thereby restoring our reputation as progressive, and at all events useless, talkers.
i do not like it when poles or other fellow europeans are fingered because of who they are. there are a lot of hardworking and honest people, but it is a question whether the intention of that pvv website was to sow hatred, as is too easily said here. it's a distress call. i think that only in this european parliament are there people who think that there are no problems with schengen. schengen and the opening of internal borders was a godsend for organised crime. and instead of acting as a sort of tribunal of political correctness and pseudo-moral superiority, we would do better to recognize and address the problems. it is precisely such an attitude that can improve cooperation and appreciation between all the peoples of europe.
in writing. - i am in favour of the ambitious targets set by europe in the field of environment and energy. however, europe's pioneering role must not lead to its external isolation. the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is essential and the regulations must have a pan-european impact, because air does not stop at the borders of europe. however, the specifications should be negotiated in consultation and agreement with third countries, in particular where those specifications have a direct impact on them. the european emissions trading system is a good example of how international opposition to a regulation agreed at european level can be met just before it enters into force. europe should stick to its policy but seek international dialogue. the ehs should be a compromise, above all at icao level, which would also allow third countries to accept the ehs.
in writing. europe must strengthen the future of the industrial sector by investing more in this area. the large energy-consuming companies are concerned that companies may have to leave europe to avoid the high costs of measures to reduce co2 in the air. such measures will have a negative impact on the european economy and will do nothing to reduce the dangers of greenhouse gas emissions. therefore, the adoption of the roadmap to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 must serve as a basis for policy decisions. europe must take the appropriate measures to preserve the competitiveness of its economy.
in writing. the aim of this so-called 'reference point' is obviously: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we all know that the initiators are anti-european and that they will not hesitate to use any means to discredit the european integration project. this website is reprehensible because it incites xenophobia and is therefore contrary to the european treaty. the european commission and the dutch government must, as commissioner reding rightly points out, investigate whether the initiators have acted outside the law. i would also suggest that we ignore any (scoffing) initiative by this party in the future. because that's the only way to deprive them of the media attention they now enjoy to the full.
in writing. the european parliament resolution on the situation in russia after the elections expresses concern about the development of the situation in the country with regard to respect for and protection of human rights and respect for democratic principles and commonly accepted electoral rules and procedures. it is necessary to recall that the russian federation is a full member of the council of europe and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe and that it has therefore committed itself to respecting the principles of democracy and respect for human rights. the osce and the council of europe expressed in a joint statement that the electoral process had clearly favored one candidate. i strongly deplore this situation and call on the russian authorities and the political parties represented in the state duma to engage in constructive dialogue with pro-democracy protesters and the opposition, in the interests of comprehensive reform and in the interests of transparency and democracy.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a much-needed resolution on kazakhstan following the violent crackdown on protesters last december which resulted in many deaths. following these events, the kazakh authorities declared a state of emergency and the independent press was subjected to attacks and intimidation, which still prevents the clarification of events. in general, there has been a deterioration in respect for human rights in the country for some time. it is important that the european parliament should make its voice heard and firmly condemn the current deviations. we therefore call on the kazakh authorities to spare no effort to improve the human rights situation on their soil and stress that progress in the negotiations on the new enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and kazakhstan must depend on the implementation of political reforms and a significant improvement in the human rights situation in the country.
in writing. the declaration made today by the european parliament on the occasion of the 6th world water forum in marseille is symbolically important: water is a common good of humanity and should not be a source of illegitimate profit. among the reasons for satisfaction: the achievement of one of the 8 millennium development goals (ensuring a sustainable environment): 89% of the world's population now has access to water, more than 6 billion people connected to a drinking water network or who can access uncontaminated wells. however, there is cause for concern: nearly 800 million people still lack access to clean drinking water. what's europe got to do with it? in view of the scarcity of water resources and recurrent droughts, it is obvious that it must secure its water supply through rational use in agriculture and in the urban environment. other ways to do this include increasing the area of woodland to protect soil and water, and using good agricultural practices to combat the excessive use of water contaminants (nitrogen, phosphorus and pesticides) which have harmful effects on human health and the environment.
the agenda calls for debates on cases of violation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, and first of all the debate on human trafficking in sinai, in particular the case of solomon w.
- a writer. - terrible things are happening in sinai, where hundreds, if not thousands, of people who have fled intolerable situations in their african countries are falling into the hands of human traffickers, are being treated horribly, if they do not raise enough money, are even being killed and their organs removed. we are also very concerned about the fate of solomon w., who, as i said, knows a great deal about this situation and is being pursued by the traffickers in human organs, who have even put a price on his head. we congratulate both the israeli and egyptian ngos who are concerned about the fate of these people. but we call on the authorities of egypt and israel to fulfil their international obligations and prevent this disaster from becoming even worse and to help those who have fallen into the hands of these traffickers.
madam president, i fully support what mr posselt is saying. i would remind you that my president of the european parliament, martin schulz, wished us a good return and a good weekend at noon and i went to complain to him, saying: 'but don't forget that the session is still in session.' so i think there are a lot of people who believe that thursday noon is the end of it.
i have received, in accordance with rule 122 of the rules of procedure, seven motions for resolutions. (') the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. i am not going to go into that. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for a debate on palestine, and in particular the raids on palestinian television channels by israeli forces.
author. - madam president, my speech will not be very different from that of my colleague. i think what happened is absolutely unacceptable. and we don't accept it and, i say, we don't accept it across groups. so there was indeed this israeli raid on watan tv and al-quds educational tv. this is not radio of the thousand hills; this is not rwanda. these are not hate speech. these are tvs we've worked with. the argument israel makes while the jurisdiction is a palestinian jurisdiction, ramallah is that it interferes with ben gurion airport. i'll take that. we'd like to think there's a technical argument and that there have been announcements before. but that doesn't justify the cowboy attitude they showed up with, the seizure of equipment, and so on. mrs reding, we are asking for clarification on this. my colleagues have been extremely measured in this resolution, since we do not have the nature of the equipment; we don't know if there's any interference, etc. we're asking if that's true. and if that's not true, then that's a major violation of freedom of opinion and expression. so the israeli government - i am not talking about the israeli people, but the israeli government - will have to answer to us, since we are indeed allies of that government. there you go. so, clarification, and above all, never let the violations of freedom of expression go unnoticed here. i think all the members agreed with this and i thank my colleagues from the epp for agreeing to sign this resolution with us, which is a very important one.
- a writer. - it will not surprise you that i do not share the ideological bias of the previous speaker. that said, i too, like my colleagues, am very concerned about what is happening in the gaza strip and we are very concerned about the great risks of escalation, but we have planned to return to this in detail at the next ministerial meeting. in addition, this parliament has always been very concerned about freedom of expression and freedom of the media, both within its own borders, within its own member states, and in countries with which we have association and cooperation agreements. in this context, my group can hardly accept the way in which the israeli army silenced two television stations in ramallah, a city under palestinian jurisdiction, on 29 february. the technical aspects of the matter are not entirely clear, and we think there is every reason to ask for clarification at the next meeting with israel. in any event, israel must ensure that these stations can resume broadcasting as soon as possible.
i have received, in accordance with rule 122 of the rules of procedure, six motions for resolutions. (') the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. i am not going to go into that. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for a debate on human rights violations in bahrain.
author. - madam president, if everyone thinks that nothing is done on thursday afternoon, at least i do not think that bahrain believes that. the interventions of the bahraini embassy, of all the friends you can know who would have been in bahrain and who say to you "yes, this is not the way to do it. you don't realize, there is a process of change that is going on, you are going to have a counterproductive effect", we only heard that in the last few hours about bahrain. now, very clearly, what is it that we are seeking through this resolution? we want the rights of human rights activists, of all those who had peacefully demonstrated for a little more democracy in bahrain, to be heard. we are aware that since last year, since the tragic events of last year, there have been changes. there have been changes, and i'll give two examples very quickly: that the independent commission of inquiry, which was created by the king, comes to conclusions that are still terrible, talking about torture, "they were tortured to death", etc., things that happened, and that this commission says it, that's good. if she does punish those who did it, that will be another matter and we will be attentive. second example: i got a call from the ilo yesterday and a tripartite commission set up by the ilo a few months ago between employers and workers' representatives in bahrain came to positive conclusions yesterday with the government's pre-signature. all of these are positive signs. perhaps the resolution does not say enough about it, perhaps we are too negative, but we are not going to buy a cat in a bag. i say we must trust the forces that want to reform democracy and bring democracy to bahrain, but we will remain vigilant by encouraging the most progressive forces.
mr posselt, arrangements were made, as before, when the meeting began on tuesday, but it is up to the conference of presidents, and the president of this group if necessary, to put this question back on the table. we will therefore forward your request. i have received, in accordance with rule 122 of the rules of procedure, six motions for resolutions. (') the debate is closed. i am not going to go into that. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
how long, mr president, are we going to be busy with so-called progress reports on turkey, which contain no progress at all? this is the sixth or seventh time since 2005, and i wonder if there is anyone in turkey and in europe who still takes these texts seriously. we all know that turkey did not meet the criteria at the time to start accession negotiations at all, and it has gone from bad to worse. at present, about 100 people are in prison in turkey for the sole reason that they have expressed their opinions. among them are professors, civil servants, army officers, writers, journalists, and elected politicians. do we want such countries in the european union? turkey's attitude towards cyprus is also a scandal, as is its foreign policy, which is increasingly turning away from europe. so let us finally pull the plug and decide once and for all that europe must remain european.
mr president, commissioner, we have said it many times in this house, particularly during the debates on my report on the poverty platform: if we do not give more signals of solidarity to the citizens showing that the union is with them, the disaffection towards the european project will increase with the risks of withdrawal into oneself that may follow. we all know that there is a blocking minority in the council which is trying to stop all initiatives in this direction. the food aid programme is not the only one in this case, the globalisation adjustment fund is also under threat. however, to exercise your right of initiative to save these very important programmes and to make them real and lasting solidarity programmes, despite the current opposition in the council, would be one of the signals that the european people are waiting for. don't let this opportunity pass you by. don't bother. we must convince the council and, at worst, it will be blocked until the french and german socialist governments arrive at the council.
in writing. 500 million euros, one euro per citizen per year, is the amount allocated by europe to food banks, the red cross, restaurants du coeur... 43 million europeans are food poor, 18 million people used the edp in 2011 and 80 million live below the poverty line on our continent. for many european citizens, the question is no longer 'what are we going to eat?' but 'are we going to eat tonight?' the european commission, through dacian cioloş, has proposed, as of 2014, to include the pead in the economic and social cohesion policy. but given germany's announced refusal to see europe carry out a social policy, there is cause for concern. in any case, the belgian socialists are adamant that this agreement should not be used as a pretext for suspending european social support from 2014. it is important that a solution be found. we will ensure that a new mechanism is put in place from 2014 to ensure better social cohesion and to prevent millions of people in europe from going hungry. europe will be united or it will be gone.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. - the president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i too would like to welcome mr hoyer. it's his first time here and i hope we'll have a fruitful cooperation. i want to focus on four things: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr hoyer, what is your response to this specific request? secondly: the external mandate of the european investment bank - i.e. its development cooperation activities outside the eu - should be fully consistent with article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which states that the reduction and eradication of poverty in developing countries are the main objectives of the european union's development cooperation policy. so it is of the utmost importance to concentrate on this. thirdly: the european investment bank should ensure that compliance with all eu standards, as well as with all international environmental, social and human rights standards, is a systematic condition for eib financing. this means that companies that violate these standards, or companies registered in tax havens, should not be eligible for eib support. mr hoyer, how do you respond to this demand from the european parliament? finally, the fourth and positive point is that the eib is focusing on the fight against climate change and is committed to renewable energy. in this connection, we say very clearly: the eib, in this context, should focus on decentralised, small-scale and off-grid projects, ensuring that rural areas have good access to energy.
mr president, in theory, of course, all of this sounds very good: european citizenship and the right of european citizens to move freely from one member state to another, including to work. who could argue with that? the reality, however, ladies and gentlemen, is quite different, and it is a picture which, strangely enough, is not contained in the report under discussion. in my own country, for example, there are major problems in all the town centres without exception, particularly with romanian and bulgarian settlers, and especially with the roma among those settlers. even the very socialist mayor of the central city of ghent had it written down, and i quote: "even if we want to be a welcoming and supportive city, when it comes to welcoming eastern europeans, it has been enough". i think it is unacceptable that this very unreal problem is swept under the carpet in this report by a kind of blind european idealism, particularly by a parliamentary committee which should be particularly attentive to the real problems of all citizens, and not just of one category.
madam president, i would ask you, since there is no urgency in this sitting, to intervene so that the president of parliament makes an urgent appeal to the indian authorities to prevent the execution of devinder pal singh bhullar, who is likely to be executed on 31 march. so there is extreme urgency. we are fighting against the death penalty and i think that is something that needs to be supported urgently. so ask mr. martin schulz to intervene with the indian authorities.
mrs. de keyser, this will be forwarded to the president for speedy action. * * *
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
i'm sorry, but he was adopted. i can't grant your request.
thank you, mr. lambsdorff, that will be taken into account. this closes the voting.
in writing. the adoption of this report was a genuine attempt to draw the commission's attention to the many remaining areas of concern regarding air passenger rights. the report has the merit of giving an overview of everything that absolutely needs to be improved for air travellers, and the list of measures to be taken is very long. because air passengers are still too often deceived when they book their plane tickets. for example, with regard to online bookings, i regret that some airlines raise the advertised price for a whole range of reasons. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. another example relating to families is that children under the age of two should be allowed to sit in a seat, and not be on their parents' lap for the entire duration of a flight. people with reduced mobility should be able to travel with the equipment they need at no extra cost. it would be good if the commission took this as an example when it revised the regulation on air passenger rights (no 261/2004) in the near future.
in writing. − the rights of passengers in respect of compensation and assistance (in case of cancellation or delay) and the rights of air passengers with reduced mobility are strengthened by this report. the report also contains important demands for price transparency, and i therefore expressly support it. i particularly welcome the fact that the need for greater legal certainty is emphasised. it can't be that the passengers need a lawyer to determine their passenger rights. the regulations must contain clear definitions and be subject to uniform interpretation so that passengers receive information that is complete, easy to understand and transparent. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected.
in writing. there is a need to improve the standardisation of the application of regulations across the european union, and it is essential to ensure that consumers are well informed about them. in order to defend their rights, citizens must be able to know about them. passenger rights must be communicated to passengers in a simple and clear manner. independent and transparent bodies should be set up to ensure the application of these regulations. disputes between air carriers and passengers and passenger complaints can be resolved. finally, it is essential that passengers have adequate safety conditions, including secure seats.
in writing. the new european programme for the resettlement of refugees (erf) from third countries, adopted today, will give more resources to member states (ms) wishing to take in people who have fled war, famine or persecution. this programme, implemented by the ms on a voluntary basis, aims to resettle people who have been granted refugee status in third countries (such as libyan refugees in tunisia in 2011) to the eu. for 2013, the list of people whose resettlement will be funded by the erf has been extended to include vulnerable people (children and women at risk, unaccompanied minors, etc.). the programme will also set a series of annual geographical priorities. for example, priority will be given to iraqi refugees in syria, afghan refugees in turkey, pakistan and iran, somali refugees in ethiopia and so on. the eu's financial support for resettling refugees will also be increased. ms will be able to receive €6000 per person in the first year, €5000 in the second year and €4000 in subsequent years (compared to a total of €4000 per person currently resettled).
in writing. the european parliament today adopted the interinstitutional political agreement on the proposal for a regulation on financial derivatives. it is one of the cornerstones of european financial regulation post-2008 financial crisis. according to the bank for international settlements, the derivatives market exceeded usd 700 trillion in 2011, with the main market share held by currency exchange rate derivatives, interest rate derivatives or hedging contracts against the risk of default of an issuer. the future regulation, which will apply at the end of 2012, aims to shed light on this market, whose products have so far been traded mainly on an over-the-counter basis and therefore in total opacity. it requires the clearing in central clearing houses of a large majority of standardised derivatives. all derivatives transactions, whether on regulated platforms or otc, will have to be reported to national registers to which national and european supervisors will have access. these data will be published. the ep hopes that with these rules many of these products will be more expensive for the companies that use them and less profitable for the banks.
in writing. the protection of workers against electromagnetic fields will remain the missing link in european safety standards at the workplace for a few years to come. eight years of procedure will not have been enough to finalise an agreement between the european parliament and the council on this issue and to complete the legal arsenal. workers are already protected by three european directives: noise, optical radiation and mechanical vibration. i had already expressed my doubts in 2008 when the employment committee (anderson report) followed the european commission's strategy of putting this directive in the closet, where i thought it would be wiser to amend it in the margin and provide for a derogation for the medical magnetic resonance imaging (mri) sector. the commission has provided for such a derogation in its new proposal, but this has not been sufficient and the legal and institutional impasse persists. it is obviously regrettable that european workers are still not protected by common standards of safety against electromagnetic waves. on the other hand, we can still welcome the "repeat" granted to the european mri imaging sector, so important for a whole category of patients, with more than 30 million medical examinations by mri performed each year in europe.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report and in particular the vote on paragraph 2 of the report: 'parliament's workplaces should be limited to a single seat for members and officials; calls on the council to take into account the requests already expressed on several occasions by parliament and the citizens of the union regarding the need to establish a single seat for members and officials, as recalled in paragraph 7 of the european parliament's resolution of 16 february 2012 on the guidelines for the 2013 budget.' the resolution adopted by 429 votes to 184 with 37 abstentions shows the will of the members who are clearly in favour of a single seat for the european parliament!
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report. i would also like to point out that i voted in favour of the amendment which proposes extending the scope of the fund to selfemployed persons, in line with the commission's proposal for a revision of the regulation on the european globalisation adjustment fund for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament has become a co-legislator of the european union, and now has the same rights as the council in terms of the ordinary legislative procedure and the budgetary procedure. the regulation should therefore be adapted to take account of the evolution of the legislative role of parliament. it was essential to abolish question time in the council in its present form. this measure reflects the institutional changes that have been introduced in recent years. however, the possibility of questioning the council should be retained, so that parliament can consult the council on matters which do not fall within the legislative and budgetary functions.
in writing. the idea of a european democracy fund is to support all those who campaign for democracy around the world through non-bureaucratic means. although the entity is not directly linked to the commission, the initiatives taken by the european fund for democracy (efd) will have to be part of the policies developed by the european union. democracy is never bought. it must be preserved, and no one is immune to its deterioration, north or south. it's not about development or economic wealth, it's about values, public freedoms and respect for others. we all need to be vigilant, as politicians and as citizens.
in writing. i welcome the council decision of 1 march 2012 to grant serbia candidate status and hope that the union will open accession negotiations with serbia as soon as possible. in the resolution we voted on the process of european integration in serbia, we stressed the considerable progress serbia has made in meeting the copenhagen criteria. however, it is important to continue the dialogue between serbia and kosovo and to implement the agreements reached in good faith. parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. parliament also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national and regional authorities responsible for the implementation of the acquis. the resolution also calls on the eu to take action to ensure that the rights of minorities are respected. respect for minorities is indeed one of the fundamental elements of the accession criteria.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of a resolution on kosovo which calls on the five eu member states which have not yet done so to recognise kosovo's independence. the eu must play a more decisive role in the conflict between kosovo and serbia, which is essential for maintaining stability and security in the balkan region. i do regret that serbia is exerting diplomatic pressure to dissuade certain countries from recognising kosovo. as regards the dialogue between pristina and belgrade, i am pleased that nine rounds of negotiations have already been held and that they have resulted in several preliminary agreements, including one on the integrated management of border crossing points in the north of the country. it is worrying, however, that previous agreements have not been fully implemented by the serbian side. i would nevertheless stress the need for kosovo to implement constitutional and electoral reforms, in the area of public administration and the professionalism of judges and prosecutors, in the promotion of pluralistic and independent media, and on the important issue of the rule of law. it is also essential to combat corruption, organised crime and discrimination.
in writing. in this resolution, meps called on turkey to improve its relations with its neighbours. the peaceful relations between turkey and the neighbouring member states are a key factor in the reshaping of the negotiations and dialogue. we support the negotiations on the reunification of cyprus and deplore ankara's threats to freeze relations with the cypriot eu presidency in the second half of 2012 if the conflict is not resolved. as a member of parliament, however, i note the intensification of relations between turkey and athens to improve their relations. it is now important that turkey normalize its relations with armenia. in this resolution, i join the other members in calling on the member states and the international community to support turkey in its efforts to manage the humanitarian dimension of the dramatic situation facing the syrian people. it was also important to recall in this resolution that freedom of expression and media pluralism are at the heart of european values and democratic societies, and to reaffirm our concerns about criminal prosecutions against human rights defenders, activists and journalists.
in writing. the eu-turkey accession negotiations are in full swing. the turkish authorities are backsliding in their respect for the universal values on which the european union is founded, not because of the crisis. turkey is a large country, and it plays a strategically important role for europe. it is enough to stress its unfailing contribution to nato and the fact that it is the union's energy corridor for the oil and gas resources of the caucasus and the caspian. this geostrategic dimension, important as it is, must not make us forget the regular failure to respect the rights of women and minorities. these are now being supplemented by unacceptable anti-semitic provocations. the latest example is the recent tv commercial on turkish television in which hitler praises the merits of shampoo "for real men". how can we not finally have the common sense to dare as a credible alternative the option of the privileged partnership? this would at least have the merit of clarity and respond to the concerns expressed by a majority of european citizens who are concerned about possible future unprepared accessions, and the absorption capacity of the eu after the great waves of accessions in 2004 and 2007.
in writing. - this is the latest progress report on the negotiations with turkey and again the essential points are missing: turkey is not a european country. it is not even a european country geographically, nor is it a european country culturally, historically, economically or religiously. this is even more important than the secondary arguments, some of which are fortunately included in this report. what is totally lacking is a clear and unambiguous position on the gigantic sums of european financial aid that go to turkey every year and whose efficient use is questionable to say the least. in return, will we perhaps get this large-scale illegal immigration from the turkic-speaking asian countries, who are allowed to enter turkey without a visa and then of course cross the border into greece? for all these reasons and many others, i could not approve this report.
in writing. in the 2011 monitoring report on montenegro, it was important to call on the authorities to continue their efforts to implement reforms, in particular on the rule of law and fundamental rights. the most important effort must be directed towards the fight against corruption, which is widespread in many areas, and against organised crime. it is necessary to continue the progressive implementation of their obligations under the stabilisation and association agreement. the resolution also calls for progress in the transparency of the legislative process with greater involvement of civil society in the development of policies and legislation. i welcome the adoption of this report which calls on the authorities to thoroughly investigate cases of physical violence and intimidation against journalists and discrimination against the roma, ashkali and egyptian minorities. it was also important to acknowledge the country's commitment and constructive role in regional stability and the strengthening of good neighbourly relations. although on the right track, it is essential that montenegro continue its efforts to move closer to the start of the negotiation procedure for its eu accession.
in writing. i have always supported any initiative/report aimed at introducing quotas. in this case, today i voted in favour of amendment no 3, which calls on the commission to present as soon as possible complete and up-to-date data on the representation of women in all types of enterprise in the eu, and on the measures, whether binding or not, taken by enterprises and by member states to increase this representation, and which calls on the european executive, at the end of this year, to propose legislation on quotas by 2012.
in writing. it seemed important to complete the adoption of this report by voting on amendment no 3, which welcomes the eib's particular attention to climate change, in particular renewable energy, and calls on the eib to put universal access to energy at the heart of its energy sector engagement by supporting small-scale, decentralised off-grid projects, particularly in rural areas.
in writing. citizens still face too many obstacles when exercising their rights across borders, especially with regard to the free movement of persons. many citizens have difficulty obtaining residence permits or social security benefits. the european citizen must be helped to live in the member state of his choice. the number of petitions shows the lack of satisfaction of citizens with the implementation of this freedom. i supported the report because it stresses the need for more transparency and the need to strengthen communication policy so that citizens can fully enjoy their rights.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 1.50 p.m.)
it is a new work to go into all the elements of this left-wing inspired human rights report. i would therefore like to mention one element not mentioned in the report, namely the situation in south africa and more particularly the murders of white farmers. south africa is facing a huge crime problem. all ethnic groups are affected by this insecurity, but the systematic nature of attacks on white farming families is very clear and therefore deserves our special attention. in the last 15 years, some three thousand farmers have been murdered in south africa, often in horrific circumstances, and even children have been left untreated. this is a very vulnerable population, not only because it is a very small minority, but also because of the geographical dispersion of these people and the remoteness of many farms. the american ngo genocide watch warns that several elements indicate that a genocide is in the making. so it is not just a part of existing crime, but there is a targeted campaign against the farmers and it is to be expected that the planned land reform could lead to a frenzy that will escalate the violence further. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. it is therefore high time that the silence around this situation was broken and i call on you, mrs ashton, to condemn the violence against farmers in the strongest terms and to suspend aid to south africa if no effective action is taken.
first of all, this report reads like a catalogue of mostly good but also often very naive intentions, in which people really tend to assume that putting more money into all kinds of european bureaucracy will improve the human rights situation in the world; i very seriously doubt that. much worse is the political correctness of this report. for example, the precarious situation of religious minorities or women in muslim countries is very rightly pointed out, and the paradox of the so-called arab spring is just as rightly pointed out, but the word islam itself is fearfully avoided as a problem. however, i think that is the heart of the problem. finally, the paragraph calling on the eu to organise massive rescue operations at sea for the benefit of illegal immigrants, i could accept if it also called for the return of these illegal immigrants to their country of origin. but that is not politically correct enough for this parliament.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, my green card is not a bad thing, mr provera, but when you talk about freedom of religion, i, who am a complete agnostic, always expect to be told about freedom of belief. but when you call for a report on freedom of religion and religious rights, i feel i must ask: what about the rights of belief? it always seems to me that this house is being cut off, if not by half, at least by part of its convictions. i would be prepared to say, "but yes, mr provera, let's make this report", if you would at least let us, the secularists, say what our philosophy of life is, our spirituality, which probably does not match yours. but if we do this, then i agree with you. if we do not, i feel a little bit violated and i also feel very upset by the attack on islam that has been made by one of your colleagues.
i think i'll have a cup of coffee with mr. provera to continue this discussion. more seriously, i would like to say a few words about richard howitt's report which i think is absolutely excellent. it could do without almost all the amendments. i would like to make two points. the first point is the defense of gays and lesbians. this point has been omitted in the new version and i find that regrettable. i think that mrs ashton, the european external action service, everyone has worked to ensure that in our partnerships at least the rights of gays and lesbians are absolutely respected. there is still a tremendous amount of work to be done and we urge you, mrs ashton, to get back to work. the second point i wanted to come back to is the new neighbourhood policy and the 'more for more' principle. we have full confidence in the council, in the commission and in your services, but we are nevertheless afraid that this new neighbourhood policy may sometimes remain as blind as the old one to the realities of countries with which we have interests, with which we are allies. that's why we want to make it operational. richard howitt said it very well. we want a method, we want criteria, we want to measure improvements in democracy and human rights and we really want the real 'more for more' that can be weighed and measured. i think that is absolutely essential and that is a genuine desire for change that parliament will affirm when it votes on this report.
mr president, i think we can almost all agree that the situation in mali is tragic. i would simply like to return to a feeling of unease about this problem insofar as, as has been said, it was seen to come. it was really a chronicle of a foretold catastrophe. we - i am thinking of mr gahler, myself or mr goerens - who sit in the acp have been hearing for months, since the libyan intervention, the panicked cries of our malian colleagues who tell us: 'something is going to happen in mali'. we heard them at the acp meeting in togo, and the day before the coup in brussels, our colleague mr assari expressed a real sense of anger and despair when he said: 'but we must be helped!' and the coup took place the next day. so you want to say, "why couldn't we do anything?" we had the strategy for the sahel, we knew the facts, we knew that something was going to happen and today we hear people say: 'we are going to support ecowas, we are going to try to promote regional consultation, we are going to try, as soon as there is a transitional government, to take development measures for some of these regions which are absolutely poor.' but could we not have spared the day, knowing that it is a powder keg? it is pointless to look back and we must look to the future, but i think we must take all these problems into account, as mrs vergiat has very well said: this was a problem that was in the making and we must therefore tackle it together.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, we went with mrs gomes to the syrian-lebanese border at the very beginning of april, not only to meet with some of the syrian opposition who managed to reach beirut, but also to understand a little better the risks of a possible implosion in lebanon due to the tensions between sunnis and shiites generated by the syrian conflict. what does all this tell us? i don't know if we're seeing any more clearly than we were at the beginning. anyway, all the syrians we heard expressed a very great fear of what i would call a proxy war, that is, a war led by an interlocutor, with geopolitical interests playing out in syria, between sunnis, shiites, etc. with possible interference from saudi arabia, qatar, etc. these people told us, "they're going to steal our revolution". it really seems that the annan plan is the only possible outcome in syria, other than civil war. it's not very satisfying but that's the feeling that's expressed there. the annan plan, but an improved annan plan, an operational annan plan, an annan plan which would eventually see assad out, and in a short time. but it is probably here that efforts are still needed, and we have had many discussions with syrian opponents about the implementation of the annan plan. but the fear of civil war and the fear of qatari influence and so on is immense. i would like to make a second point very quickly. refugees are a priority. it's a priority that we seem to think is humanitarian, but it's a political priority. inside lebanon, this is a political priority. they're syrian oppositionists and they're fighting hezbollah. we must therefore make it our political priority. i would like to conclude by saying to you, mrs ashton, that you have rightly maintained an eu embassy in damascus, do as you did in benghazi, put up the european flag...
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, lady ashton has given a very diplomatic speech, but i have to tell her that, although i am not in the habit of agreeing with mr sarkozy, this time i must admit that he is right. i do not think that we still have an annan plan or that the plan is working. let us face the facts. she did not talk about these. more than 100 breaches of the annan plan have been identified in the last two days. more than 50 people were killed yesterday. i do not know how many casualties there have been today in syria. so how can you talk about an annan plan – an annan plan that is not being applied in practice by bashar al-assad? does the international community need several hundred more killings before everybody recognises that in fact it is not working because bashar al-assad is not willing to apply it? i think all this is leading to an increased number of killings and deaths in syria. the latest idea is for us to put observers there, and the international community and the european union are saying that we shall give every support. what does this support mean? to put in place 215 observers you need to spend several thousand euros on military equipment to protect them. otherwise it is impossible. mr vimont is a specialist, maybe he can tell us. in a normal operation in syria, with 215 observers on the ground, how many soldiers would you need? why should we do it? to protect our observers, not to protect the syrian people who are still under attack by bashar al-assad. i really do not think this is the right way forward. what we have to observe – what in fact we know already – is that the plan is not working. bashar al-assad is killing more people. we know that bashar al-assad is ignoring his promises and is simply continuing with crimes against humanity. is that what we need to know? we already know it. i do not think there is any time left now. what we need to do now is not to observe and to protect the observers but to act. we know what this means. it means three things: safe zones, humanitarian corridors and support for the syrian opposition. if we can do this with the security council, let us do it with the security council. if it is not possible with the security council because of the position taken by russia and china, we will do it without the security council. but the international community has an obligation. finally, i have a last question. can you give us some information on the recent incident with a german ship that is trying to deliver arms to syria and that is directly breaching the arms embargo? mr president – and i think i also speak for mrs de keyser – problems as serious as the crisis in syria are more important than you always putting your hammer down.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, the passion and frustration that members of this house feel is very obvious from all their contributions, and it is mirrored in every conversation i have with anyone who takes an interest in the plight of the syrian people and the horror of what is happening to them. i want to make three particular points in closing this debate. the first is that it is very attractive, emotionally and intuitively, to think about safe havens, corridors and so on, but we have to recognise that the violence in syria is taking place across 180 000 km2. it is not in isolated places, it is everywhere. we also have to recognise that the humanitarian organisations are very nervous about anything which would involve the military coming in in support of their work, and we have to respect and listen to the experience that they have. in addition to that, remember that putting boots on the ground is a huge thing, and to do so without the un security council is extraordinarily challenging to say the least. so it is very important that we recognise, when we talk about these ideas, what it is we are actually describing. it does not mean i am asking the honourable members to reject them, i am simply saying we need to understand what it is we are talking about. secondly, the united nations does not have an arms embargo because they could not get agreement in the security council. we have an arms embargo, the united states has an arms embargo and we are asking for details. i am working with the governments of cyprus and germany, who are looking into this right now, and i will respond with any information that i might have. thirdly, we are doing everything possible and working as closely as possible with everybody else to try and get the opposition groups to unite. in my last conversation with kofi annan, this was very much on his mind: how to bring them together through either an umbrella or collaboration around the table, in order that they could put aside their differences and come to a common view. i know that in istanbul this was one of the big issues. so we are continuing to engage with them and with our colleagues across the world to try and support that unity of opposition. but it is my view that at the moment the kofi annan six-point plan is where we have to concentrate our energy. it is where we finally have a security council resolution we can all get behind and with which we can hold everybody to account. it is clear that there are already significant problems in syria with the plan and with the ceasefire. it is also clear that the observers are ready to start their work. we have to back them and to work as hard as we can to get all the six points implemented and to do what kofi annan has asked us for, which is to offer him our full support. he has mine.
vice-president of the council/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, after decades of internal repression, we see dramatic and hopeful changes taking place in burma. here is a democratic transition unfolding in what looks like a peaceful, collaborative fashion, acclaimed by the domestic electorate and the international community. this is a rare case indeed. what we are seeing points to a government which is serious about change and wants to end its country’s isolation. president u thein sein shows courage and leadership. it would be a surprise, though, if he did not face resistance from some who have profited from the old system. most importantly, daw aung san suu kyi and the president have established a relationship of trust. i believe that we can measure the recent achievements against the three main items we have looked at in our policy review. first: national reconciliation, specifically a willingness to recognise the special position of daw aung san suu kyi and to see the national league for democracy take its place in the political life of the nation. here our expectations have been more than met by the growing relationship between daw aung san suu kyi and the government, and by the change in the electoral law that enabled the nld to register as a party and take part in the recent by-election. this made it all the more important that the by-elections on 1 april 2012 should be well conducted. it was remarkable and welcome that the government invited the european union to send experts to witness the poll. i was delighted that we were able to associate the european parliament with this historic event and that mr ivo belet could join the eu team at the elections. we did not observe the campaign, but it seems to have presented a mixed picture. in the poll itself, there was no sign of fraud and there is no reason to doubt the results. the nld won 42 out of the 43 seats they contested. compared to the 2010 elections, which were marred by massive fraud, this represents huge progress. these bare facts hardly do justice to the importance of the occasion and the meaning it had for a people who had waited fifty years for democracy and endured so many disappointments with so much patience. second: the release of political prisoners. a large majority have already been released, among them prominent figures from the so-called ‘88 generation’ and the national league for democracy. it is difficult to be sure exactly how many remain, as there is a grey zone of uncertainty, but the number is significant, and we shall continue to work for their release. again, there is real progress and a commitment to resolving the remaining cases. third: we wanted to see a real effort to achieve peace in the ethnic areas. all peace talks – with one exception – have brought ceasefire agreements. these are important steps, and we do not doubt the president’s commitment. the longest civil war in the world – the conflict with the karen – may soon be over, even if the kachin conflict remains a cause of great concern. there is also progress on less visible fronts: legislation for trade unions, easing of media censorship – including unrestricted access to the internet – and progress on the economic front, including liberalisation of the currency. there is so much to do that the process of reform will inevitably take time. there are problems with human rights, with macroeconomic management, and with health, education and energy. it is difficult to know where to start, but i believe that president u thein sein has made the right choice in beginning with the political problems. securing ethnic peace is perhaps the most important and the most immediate challenge. but here, too, an effort that brings together all political forces can make a real difference. we have followed these historic changes with respect and appreciation. in january, we suspended the visa bans on the government. at the end of this month we shall do more. decisions will be taken by in the foreign affairs council in a few days. but we need to go further and build a partnership. i will travel to burma next week. i have invited the foreign minister to brussels. i know that the european parliament made a successful visit in february. i hope that what we are now seeing is an opportunity for this country to move forward. we need to enter into active collaboration to assist the reform process and to contribute to economic, political and social development. we have secured more funding – eur 150 million. in addition to ongoing programmes in health, education and agriculture, i have launched a programme to help the national human rights commission. we will strengthen capacity in the public administration at central and regional level. i also plan to offer cooperation with the election commission to build on the success of the by-elections, for which it deserves much credit. in particular, i want to work to secure peace and stability for ethnic regions and to open a long-term perspective for their development. i hope that the honourable members will support me in working with the authorities to turn ceasefires into durable peace. in all these areas we will work with the opposition as well as the government. indeed, we very much hope they will be working together. removing sanctions and increasing aid is not enough: we all recognise too the vital contribution that the private sector can make. we want to encourage european companies to look for opportunities in burma and to bring the highest standards of corporate social responsibility with them. in a longer perspective, the european union hopes to reinstate the generalised system of preferences following the international labour organisation’s assessment. i believe i speak for all of us when i say that we look forward to collaborating constructively with the government, the opposition and indeed the people to reinforce their unity and prosperity. finally, let me express the hope that daw aung san suu kyi will soon be able to come to this house to receive the sakharov prize she was awarded 21 years ago. today is the first day of the burmese new year. i wish all the people a very happy new year. thanks to the determination of president u thein sein and the fortitude of daw aung san suu kyi, there is a chance that for once this wish might come true.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, burma/myanmar is really at a turning point today: i think we agree on that. we are, of course, also aware of the fact that everything is still very fragile in burma. is the reform process irreversible? nobody knows. but we do know that the transparency and the openness of the by-elections of 1 april are not isolated factors. lady ashton, you referred to the majority of the political prisoners that have been liberated. the presence of the international media and the international observers is a big step forward. important steps still have to be made by the burmese authorities. we clearly insist in our motion for a resolution, which will be put to the vote on friday, that they must liberate all the political prisoners and that the real test of democracy will take place over three years, within which the general elections will be held. but the fact is that today we are faced with a unique window of opportunity, and we have to grab it. it is crucial that the authors of the reform process in burma/myanmar receive a clear, strong signal of support from the european union. therefore, high representative, we ask you (and this is important) – indeed, we ask the council – to start reviewing the restrictive measures substantially in order to support the reforms. a strict evaluation of the impact of such a review within a year could be part of that decision. i think that the european union and you, high representative, hold the key in this process. you referred to the renewed potential of the relationship between the eu and burma/myanmar. we can and will benefit from an open economic partnership. it will be a win-win situation for both sides, and of course we also rely on you to push for balanced development with full respect for the local population and the ecological richness of this country. we count on you, lady ashton, to take the lead in this process on a global scale and to start a new era for burma/myanmar.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after having paid attention to the vote on 1 april, we will also pay close attention on 23 april when the new members who have been elected in this by-election take office. indeed, if we recall some facts, the nld had boycotted the november 2010 elections and today it participated in this by-election which allowed it to obtain 43 of the 44 seats at stake, which is a great success. lady asthon has very rightly highlighted the resolution of ethnic conflicts with the karen minority, ethnic conflicts which have lasted for decades, we must not forget. since march 2011, there have been real changes in myanmar. president thein sein has paved the way for reforms that have put his country back on the international stage and many changes that look to the future for burma. madam high representative, you who are going to burma next week will certainly have a message of encouragement for the reforms being implemented in burma, but perhaps you will also be sending the message that we need to be more vigilant and continue to move in the right direction.
in writing. euroscepticism is growing among employees in europe, and we know that the risk of withdrawal is ever present. the exploitation of legal loopholes by some employers to limit their wage costs to the maximum is at the expense of employees who feel subject to unfair competition, with obvious consequences for their social benefits. some low-cost airlines are experts in this practice, and the text which will be adopted today, with a clear reference to the basis of assignment, covers one of the legal gaps in which they have been falling. we need more positive signals of this kind from the union to european workers, and in particular through this parliament. the first priority must be to communicate their demands, not only on this issue but on all the issues which concern them and for which they fear they will be pitted against each other. the union cannot survive and the recovery can only take place through social dumping.
commissioner, six months ago, right here, we had a debate on the wave of redundancies in europe as a result of the economic crisis, particularly at arcelor, a multinational company operating in nine european member states, which is restructuring its production facilities in europe in the face of sluggish demand for steel. since the closure of two blast furnaces in belgium and luxembourg and the shutdown of one blast furnace in france, it is estimated that by 2012 almost 6 000 direct jobs would be threatened. beyond unacceptable practices such as stop and go - a practice which should be better regulated - the more general questions of the european steel industry and adaptation to change are those which require extremely urgent answers. six months ago the commission announced to us the need to carry out, in the light of the economic crisis, a new consultation exercise on the responsible management of restructuring with the social partners and the public authorities. my question is simple: six months later, where are we?
member of the commission. − in january the commission launched a green paper on restructuring and i believe this is a very important debate. this discussion has a certain history, with strong involvement by the social partners – the trade unions and, on the other side, the employers having strong views – especially because in the crisis period there have been heavy implications as a result of corporate relocations inside europe, but also from europe to other continents. the example that was mentioned – arcelor mittal – has indeed experienced great job losses in the recent period, including in belgium, as we discussed some months ago in this chamber. i think such examples provide lessons for how to develop this discussion. in this phase the commission is summarising the answers. we received more than 100 answers in this two-month consultation period. there was a reference in the forthcoming employment package to the continuing work on restructuring and we will soon – after evaluating these summaries – decide on what the next follow-up should be. we will, of course, coordinate with the social partners about this decision, but let me just finally mention that there is also an important financial implication because in such situations the governments can request the globalisation adjustment fund if the conditions apply. i believe that has to be taken into account when the parliament discusses the future of the globalisation adjustment fund.
i would stress the urgency of this debate, commissioner, because more than 250 000 workers are directly employed in the metal industry, 370 000 in the steel industry and i also think that a vision of the future is needed for a steel project which not only supports economic investment but also workers and their right to job security.
in writing. − i very much welcome this report as it takes account of recent developments in crossborder mobility which have an impact on the coordination of social security systems. it concerns the updating of existing regulations due to changes in national legislation and changing mobility patterns. it shall, inter alia, clarify that posted workers cannot be replaced by other posted persons after the first worker has been posted. in addition, selfemployed persons working across borders are better protected in the event of unemployment. if you were insured in the member state of your last activity and return to your member state of residence where there is no unemployment insurance, you can still apply for benefits in the member state where you last worked. i welcome this strengthening of the rights of selfemployed frontier workers. it will benefit eu citizens, especially those in border areas.
in writing. i broadly agree with the howitt report's outline and emphasis on the potential of the internet to spread the truth and win freedoms. this is one of the great achievements of the arab revolutions. on the other hand, the protection of religious minorities in the world should have been given more attention. defending religious freedom is a modern, secular struggle, which primarily affects christian minorities in all corners of the planet: copts in egypt, minorities in syria, northern mali, nigeria and kenya, laos and vietnam... the commission has also proposed a number of amendments to the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. it is "a mistake" to denounce the "security vigilance" of colombia, israel or morocco. these three countries have in common that they have never compromised the security of their citizens and have achieved considerable results in the fight against terrorism. these three states have synthesised freedom and security and share the same values as the european union. it is by standing up for its ideals of tolerance and freedom, but also by choosing its allies well, that the european union will make itself heard more on the international stage.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, so, mr barroso, it is just one month ago that we had our last debate on the euro crisis here. it was on 13 march, and you remember what happened. statements were made to the effect that the crisis was over, that we had reached a turning point, that the worst was behind us – statements not made by you, i have to recognise and underline that; the commission did not do that, but statements by mr van rompuy, mr draghi, mr jünker, and also by mr sarkozy (but for quite obvious other reasons). what i deplore is that none of all these people is here today, when we invited them to come to this parliament. mr draghi is not here, and mr jünker had no time; the council is also not here – there are a number of civil servants, but the council is not here. in the middle of a euro crisis, when they were stating a month ago that everything was done and the worst was behind us, they do not have the courage to be here. it is a lack of courage that i want to deplore today. secondly, the real thing is that we all know that the crisis is not over. we said it here one month ago, on 13 march. we introduced austerity; we have established emergency funds; we have injected one trillion euros into the banking system; we have bought more than eur 100 billion of sovereign debt from countries like portugal, ireland and italy; we have decided on the biggest haircut in the history of the world (what happened with the greek debt is the biggest haircut ever carried out) – and what is the result? the result is that interest rates in spain and italy today are back where they were six months ago, at around 6%; the spreads are again around 400 basic points for countries like italy and spain, and these spreads are also going up for other countries in the eurozone – mainly for france, belgium and other countries. so one thing is clear: we need another approach. we need a structural approach, not the half measures we have seen for two years now. in my opinion this means two things: first of all, we must launch a new growth strategy (a real one), using the eib as you have indicated, and spend money from the eu budget – project bonds, not only a pilot project, but project bonds on a full scale. my proposal is that you put forward to the council and parliament a global plan on this – on a new growth strategy – as fast as possible. the second thing, as we know, is partial mutualisation of debt. you have talked, as everybody here does, about strengthening solidarity without losing discipline. there is only one good proposal: the redemption fund, a eur 2.3 trillion fund which will help all member states. everybody knows that this is the only way forward. what is important to underline is that, in the case of a redemption fund, it is the bondholders who are paying the bill by receiving lower interest rates, not the taxpayers of germany or the other countries. perhaps we should launch a campaign in the german press about this. now they are paying the bill with the so-called fire extinguisher – the rescue fund – while, with a structural solution of a redemption fund, it would be the bondholders paying. finally to greece, and i am very pleased with the announcement today. however, last week i sent you a letter about greece, which was also about the financing of the political parties. the two main political parties in greece – both irresponsibly in my opinion, given the current situation – paid themselves eur 29 million of taxpayers’ money to start the campaign on 6 may. the commission spokesman responded in a press conference by saying that it was none of the commission’s business. i do not agree with you. you interfere in pensions and in wages in greece – this is not foreseen in the treaty, but you do it, and i think it is necessary to do so. in the second memorandum of understanding it is clearly stated that there must be a reduction – and i quote (i have here the mou no 2) – ‘of the electoral spending of eur 70 million in greece’. i think that, based on that memorandum, you can interfere. i find it a scandal – and this is my final word – that greek citizens have to make sacrifices and that the european partners have to continue to pay while most greek politicians simply continue the bad practices of the past.
with the euro crisis threatening to flare up again, it is once again becoming clear that the conservative majority's approach to the crisis in europe is not working. the european social democrats made that analysis almost two years ago. a policy that focuses only on austerity, without balancing it with investment in growth and jobs, is strangling the european economy. it is commendable in itself that the commission is finally coming up with an employment package, but unfortunately this is already too little, too late. instead of placing employment and growth at the heart of the european semester, the communication simply lists a bunch of measures already in place without establishing a strong legal basis and without allocating the necessary resources. there can only be one conclusion: this "employment package" is a sham. there is a growing consensus on our criticism that the narrow view of austerity and fiscal consolidation is leading the eu straight to the abyss. it is therefore high time that the commission came up with a real growth plan and put growth and job creation at the heart of the european semester. the time of loose ends is over, we need tough legislation.
- i'm the reporter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are hereby introducing a new community tax framework which contains a complete set of rules for calculating the individual results of each company or branch, wherever it is established in the european union. the commission notes that the tax base of the group is the same as that of the group of companies, and that the group of companies is the same as that of the group of companies. the member states can then apply their own tax rate to the part they are entitled to, and this is done through a system whereby the entire administrative handling is done by a single main tax authority. with this ccctb we are making it easier and cheaper to set up a company across borders, which is certainly opening up new prospects for smes. we are also making taxation more transparent. we avoid overtaxation and double taxation, but also manipulation for the purpose of tax evasion. and we are certainly making europe more attractive to foreign investors. the commission's proposal is a good one, but it is not the only one. that fits perfectly into the double battle we are fighting today and which we have also been talking about all afternoon. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and if we want to solve the debt crisis, then we must of course also ensure that the member states can collect the taxes they owe, and this proposal is mutually beneficial. so let no one invoke the crisis to put everything on the long or soft track, no, the crisis should strengthen our ambition and our sense of urgency. i would like to draw your attention to three points: first, the optional nature of the system. the ccctb may well be optional, but we do think that if the system is good enough for optional use, it is also good enough to make it compulsory. and the benefits increase with the number of people who use it. and that is why we are proposing a road map which will make the system gradually mandatory for all companies except smes over a period of five years. we want to give them an assessment of its practical usefulness and a tool to guide them in their use. secondly, there is the scope of harmonization. this proposal does not concern the tariffs, but only the taxable base, the basis on which the tax is levied. the member states retain full sovereignty in the matter of tariffs. we do however expressly ask that this issue be included in the revision clause, so that it can be examined later whether and to what extent the tax competition which continues to exist between the member states is beneficial or harmful to the europe we want to build together and which is aimed at a social market economy. thirdly and finally, mr president, we believe that we must move forward. if the council fails to reach a consensus with 27 member states - and it is a pity that the council is not here again - we ask the commission to start the procedure without delay to implement the proposal in close cooperation.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i believe that this is a very ambitious report from a political point of view. i think, marianne, that you have gotten as much as we could get if we want a large majority in this chamber. if we really want to put an end to tax optimisation, this is a first step in corporate taxation. it is obviously unthinkable for us to introduce a voluntary twenty-eighth system of corporation tax alongside the twenty-seven systems of the member states. because, of course, who will use it if it is on a voluntary basis, if not exclusively those companies for whom this would mean a lower effective tax rate than if they were to refer to their national scheme? i believe that the idea of making this system compulsory for large companies is a must and i thank the rapporteur for including it in her report. as for the council, which is once again conspicuous by its absence in tax matters, i simply want to say one thing: by playing the game of tax competition with each other, we are all the losers, all the public treasuries are the losers. this is not a zero-sum game, it's a negative-sum game. i therefore hope that the message which this house will send tomorrow will be heard by the council.
the differences in corporate taxation between eu member states are considerable, whether in terms of rates or income. that is why the commission is opting for back door harmonization. a uniform corporate tax base has advantages. companies pay taxes in a cheaper and simpler way. who gets the tax revenue in the end is none of their business. that is a matter for the member states and that is where the problem lies. when member states levy corporation tax on companies operating in more than one eu country, they must share the revenue between them. the commission's allocation key is designed to disadvantage competitive and exporting countries. they are taxed and lose corporate tax revenue. the report by mrs thyssen already explicitly mentions the solution which will soon be put to these countries, namely minimum rates of corporation tax, whereas we have not thoroughly studied the fiscal effects of the distribution key proposed by the commission. that's why i say: i do not agree with that and i think a large part of the council agrees with me.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for the views you expressed during this debate. your strong support and constructive approach in this area is an important signal for the member states. as you may know, the technical work in the council progresses. discussions are now focused on how to calculate the tax base. the presidency hopes to have a progress report on the ccctb for the may ecofin. i believe that your approach points in the right direction for the future of corporate taxation in the union. we need to sustain the political momentum towards a competitive and robust pan-european tax regime for the benefit of our companies and in order to attract foreign investments in the eu through a simple and efficient tax system covering the entire single market. i take note of your call in the report – and repeated by many of you today – to make the ccctb compulsory five years from its adoption. as i have already mentioned, the commission is well aware of the burden that this would involve for companies that do not wish to operate cross-border. the review clause would nonetheless help us to assess the system as proposed within five years. this review may well cover the success of optionality. i also take note of the request of mr stolojan to meet with national parliaments that have expressed doubts in respect of the principle of subsidiarity. i can reassure you that every visit i pay to a member state includes a meeting with the national parliament wherever possible. romania will not be an exception. the rapporteur and some members have raised the issue of enhanced cooperation. the initiative to launch an enhanced cooperation lies exclusively in the hands of the member states. i therefore do not find it appropriate to speculate on this issue now. the commission will therefore express its views on this matter when it is required to, according to the treaties. again, i wish to thank you, honourable members of the european parliament, for your broad support in moving forward with this initiative. i am convinced that this is the only comprehensive solution for tackling cross- border tax obstacles in the area of corporate taxation. i personally feel reassured and willing to pick up on the strong encouragement to progress in this area, for which i thank you.
- i'm the reporter. - i thank all the speakers for their comments. colleagues, i'd like to say this. major reforms are often undertaken in times of crisis and i think we must take advantage of the present crisis, both the economic crisis and the crisis of public finances, to continue work on this dossier. it is a matter which we can complete tomorrow in this parliament, as regards our part of the work which we have repeatedly asked for in the past, which the european commission has been working on for over ten years. and let us not forget that this subject has been raised in virtually every conclusion of the last european summits, that the european council and the eurozone summits have also repeatedly expressed their support for the ccctb, so let us remain hopeful. mr president, we are actually finishing a part of the internal market here. i cannot follow the logic of those who suddenly think that the single market is no longer a source of growth and jobs. we are really removing a hindrance to the single market here and i think that does serve growth and job creation. so that's a good reason to go ahead with it. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i was pleased to put my name to that report. i am convinced of the correctness of every choice made in this report, and that is because we have worked together constructively and because we have listened to each other very well across the group lines. of course, there are a number of other emphases here. we also have different starting points here and there. but we have shown what we can achieve together. i hope that tomorrow we will have the same consensus and that we will be able to increase the council's ambition a little. i would like to say that the council is not in favour of the idea of a single currency, but that it is in favour of the idea of a single currency. if they cannot do it with 27 - which i still hope they can - then with fewer, but i hope they can do it with 27.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. - i would like to return to the essence of this story and why the commission has made this proposal. the way we tax energy in the european union today is not an incentive to switch to renewable energy, nor is it in any way an incentive to energy efficiency. so the commission has put forward a proposal to do that and that ambition is reflected in it. i must say, ladies and gentlemen, that we are very good at voting on fine resolutions in this parliament on the sustainable and green economy, but when it comes to real dossiers, to concrete matters and we have to show a little courage, we are often lacking in that. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i was more ambitious, but i can live with what is now, because the essential proposals of the commission have been withheld, such as taxing energy on the basis of both content and co2, the phasing out of commercial diesel and other important principles. i call on all my colleagues, especially those of the epp and some delegations, especially the german delegation, to think carefully about this and then tomorrow to have the courage to support the essential proposals of the commission.
the european parliament will deliver its final opinion on the reform of the existing tax on energy products tomorrow. i support the commission's wish to split the existing energy tax into two components, the energy content on the one hand and the co2 component on the other. this dual taxation is essential to eliminate the distortions of competition which exist today in europe. together, these two components will also determine the rate at which the different energy products will be treated. energy efficiency also plays a very important role here, as do the environmentally friendly products which we hope to encourage. i therefore hope that the european parliament will support the european commission's proposal to achieve a fairer energy tax. member states should be encouraged to tax competing energy products used for the same purposes, such as motor fuels, in an equal and proportionate manner. equal calculation based on their co2 emissions and their energy content. because that is what is leading to the creation of a technology-neutral landscape. that also means that we leave the choice of energy product to the market. it is the consumers, the companies, who choose their energy product and no longer we as politicians. we will also allow new sources of energy to have a fair chance on the market and to gain greater market access at that time. it also encourages innovation, it is an incentive to look for the most energy-efficient energy products. i will certainly be thinking about the future when i vote tomorrow, asking the member states to tax energy products in a uniform way, without favouring certain fuels as has happened in the past. i call on my colleagues to do the same, not to keep a short-term view but to strive for a sufficiently long transitional period so that companies and consumers, as well as producers, can adapt to the new situation. the opinion of the european parliament to the member states is of course not binding, but i would nevertheless call on the member states to opt for a fair and sustainable tax structure based on equal and proportional treatment of all energy products.
for the greens/efa group mr president, like kathleen, the greens would have liked to have made this proposal more ambitious. i think the commission has come up with a reasonable proposal. we would have liked to have made it more ambitious. so what do we hear? we hear the rapporteur, astrid lulling, and markus ferber, who is no longer here, reproach us for wanting to make the world a better place, but instead for proclaiming the end of the world. because, after all, if you are heard, this proposal would result in the destruction of the european economy. what are we talking about? we are talking about finally basing the taxation of energy products on facts, that is to say, stopping subsidies for one form of fuel at the expense of another on a basis which is nothing other than industry pressure. so we tell you to bring a little rationality into the system, and you say "oh no, not at all!" when you are often the one who preaches rationality to us. finally, we are talking about a system that will come into force between 2018 and 2025. as if the industry and our society could not adapt by starting and i say by starting in six years! let's get out of here! and you say that would destroy our economy. i have often heard german members of parliament, particularly from the epp and the liberals, give lessons in good governance to the rest of europe, to the rest of the world. i see today that these same members of parliament are turning into trade representatives of the german car industry. this happens too often and, german members of parliament, it destroys your credibility. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, we cannot solve all the problems with one instrument. mr langen, your turn will come, and indeed the nuclear industry causes externalities, if i may use economic language, of a different nature and of a different scale than the climate externalities we are talking about with renewable energies, and it too will have to contribute to correcting these externalities. we know very well that the amounts in question are unprecedented and of a different order of magnitude, but count on us in any case, in the member states where we can do so, to put this form of taxation in place. some countries have already started and will highlight the fact that this form of energy is not economically viable. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, with great pleasure, of course, but i have noticed that in recent days the vda and the french car industry so it is not just you, rest assured are engaged in intense lobbying. but we have a track record of this industry, which refuses to change, which has refused co2 standards and which today is lobbying hard. who's that? members of the european parliament from its member states, of course, to prevent binding measures from being taken. i can see the effect, that's all. you're probably going to say that i'm drawing conclusions that are perhaps a little bit daring. i have to go to the statistical evidence. i'm looking at who's reacting and how.
mr president, i think taxation is an interesting tool for changing behaviour. i believe that energy consumption must be matched by a price signal for the consumer and above all i believe that, in order to avoid distortions in the internal market, we must try to bring our tax practices closer together. the principle of proportionality of the various levels of taxation of energy products therefore seems to me to be a necessity. in the present case, for example, this would put an end to the diesel tourism we are currently witnessing, which is not an acceptable thing. i therefore share the philosophy of the commission's proposal for a revision of the directive. however, if we are to achieve our objectives in terms of reducing co2 emissions or energy efficiency, then our collective decisions must not penalise citizens or sectors particularly exposed to price volatility on world markets, and i am thinking of the agricultural sector, for example. the proposal for a directive will have an impact - albeit different depending on the level of taxation in each member state - on the price of diesel. the question is: who will ultimately have to bear the cost of this price increase? are there any real, viable, realistic alternatives that are available to the consumer? as the fictional rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i support an ambitious but above all sustainable approach for all. i therefore call for greater progressiveness and for the proposal and its principle of proportionality to enter into force in 2030, subject to a new impact assessment updating the one on which the commission is based, which was nevertheless carried out five years ago.
we're taking note of that.
i'll make a note of that. i'm sorry, it's always frustrating when you're not here. i'm a timing addict, there's a vote at noon and there's still a debate on human trafficking. anyway, thank you for coming in. i'll try to take that into account.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on the council and commission statements on trafficking in human beings.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the fight against terrorism and transnational crime are major concerns that must remain a priority in our action. the pnr agreement with the united states only very imperfectly meets the fundamental rights of citizens. the main objections are that the scope of the directive is vague, that the data are stored for a very long period without being erased, that there is no administrative or judicial remedy in the event of an error, or that the data are transmitted in a different way. while acknowledging the efforts made by the commission to achieve a more balanced agreement, it is clear that essential principles such as respect for individual rights and eu law and the protection of personal data of eu citizens are not respected. the concessions made to us partners may set a dangerous precedent in the negotiation of pnr agreements with future partners. because how can we deny other countries the advantages that we have granted to the united states? the agreement is not balanced enough and does not guarantee limited use in the fight against terrorism. this data could be used for other purposes.
in writing. i supported, along with 409 colleagues, the pnr agreement on the transfer of passenger data to the us department of homeland security. it is a compromise and the text is imperfect. i guess so. but its rejection would have had the sole effect of keeping the previous agreement in force, which was less good in terms of privacy protection. such a rejection would not have opened new negotiations with the united states. some people say this is a matter of privacy. for others, the issues are simply the fight against terrorism. our job was to place the cursor between these two requirements. and i feel like i did. the right to security is fundamental, even cardinal. without security of who we are and what we have, what good is it to be able to go out, think, say, publish or protest? and then frankly, the privacy-obsessed, who happily throw the baby with the bath water here, wouldn't they better take a look at the policing we are subjected to on social networks, an otherwise more intrusive "big brother" for the job! and, everyone will agree, less legitimate!
in writing. − the new eu rules on taxation of energy products must make a real contribution to the clean energy transition and the reduction of co2. an increase in taxes which would lead to a rise in the price of diesel fuel is not a sufficient contribution. at a time of increased demand for energy products, and given that the eu remains highly energy dependent and thus subject to price controls from abroad, there is a huge pressure on industry and thus on eu citizens. to improve this situation, renewable energy sources should be promoted, as they are essential for economic development. the real question is not how to tax traditional energy but how to create incentives for the use of renewable energy. energy products must compete so that better energy can make the breakthrough tomorrow. diesel and petrol have their advantages and disadvantages, and no fuel can be considered 'better'. the aim is therefore to reduce the tax gap between diesel and petrol, not necessarily by raising the diesel tax, but more importantly to give sustainable energy a better place in this 'energy race', which is what this proposal continues to miss.
in writing. increase excise duties on diesel? i voted against this resolution this afternoon, with a majority of my colleagues. not that the measure, which is actually aimed at putting petrol and diesel on an equal tax footing, is fundamentally wrong. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied in the member states. i just think that right here and now, it's not appropriate. we are experiencing an unprecedented economic crisis. citizens face incredible difficulties in meeting their household energy bills. i cannot believe that the signal sent today is to penalize them even more. and may i remind you in passing that our assembly is only consulted here. it is the governments who decide, unanimously, on these tax matters, which is quite a bit of the unpleasant press commentary in recent days. it is therefore up to them to develop this debate, by forcing the commission to take a more positive approach to environmental matters and to ensure that the desired harmonization does not involve an automatic increase in taxes. there are other tools, other avenues, too few of which are being used at the moment.
in writing. the lulling report, which aims to revise the 2003 energy taxation directive, justifies the proposal for taxation of energy products on the basis of the need to achieve the objectives of european energy policy as well as those of industrial policy. however, the direct effects of the measures provided for in the report lead to an increase in fuel prices, which would have direct fiscal repercussions on final consumers. i am opposed to a report which places disproportionate burdens on the citizens. i have opposed a sudden change which penalizes fuel consumers without giving them the time or the means to adapt. although it is essential to reduce pollution and co2 levels, i consider the lulling report to be a penalising one when, by increasing the taxation of energy products, it only aggravates the economic difficulties of the citizens most affected by the crisis we are going through. the fight against climate change must be implemented without the most vulnerable paying the highest cost.
in writing. - i voted with conviction in favour of the report by mr lulling on major changes in the taxation of energy products and electricity. the current energy tax system does not provide sufficient incentives for energy consumers to reduce their energy consumption and to opt for cleaner energy. in some cases, taxation even encourages the use of more polluting forms of energy, such as coal. this doesn't make any sense. everyone benefits from the transition to cleaner energy and more efficient energy use and reduction of co2 emissions. the amendments to the energy taxation regulations will make a major contribution to this. in the epp group we support the principle that taxes on motor fuels, fuel oil and electricity should henceforth be based on both energy content and co2 emissions, and that a product should be taxed more heavily the more polluting it is. however, we could not support the principle of proportionality because it would have led to a sharp increase in the price of diesel, with all the negative consequences for businesses and private consumers. it is now up to the council to act wisely in the light of this balanced opinion of parliament.
in writing. - i voted without hesitation in favour of the resolution on combating tax fraud and tax evasion. in the same voting round we also voted on the ccctb, the common consolidated corporate tax base, a system which will also help to prevent tax evasion. these are the points to which we must pay particular attention in times of crisis, when we are asking our citizens to make heavy sacrifices. i also think this resolution is important for another reason. it is in fact suggesting that we should also further adapt the european savings directive, which has already proved its usefulness, in the light of the experience gained and conclude tax agreements with more third countries than is the case at present.
i think it is very important that we are aware, when the european union accedes to the european convention on human rights, that there will be a number of problems when we increasingly transfer certain powers, certain freedoms of the member states to the european court of human rights in strasbourg. the problem is that cases which have been fully decided, which have been fully tried in a member state, are increasingly being referred to the european court of human rights, which is essentially a sort of gouvernement de juges, a group of judges who are accountable to no one and who are radically opposed to the policies which have been democratically established in the member states and which therefore make it impossible to adopt a more restrictive immigration policy. even the fight against terrorism is increasingly being compromised by the attitude of these judges. i refer in this connection to the case of abu katada in england; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the s&d group believes that the european union should be able to take action to combat the spread of the disease, and that the european union should be able to take action to combat it. for this reason, i am convinced that the setting of standards for locally produced goods should take account of the distances between the place of production and the point of sale and the point of consumption. i am convinced that the setting of standards must encourage the cost of these externalities to be taken into account. a new criterion is therefore needed to define what could be labelled as 'locally produced'. this should be a criterion that takes into account the socially sustainable production process aimed at the choice of local products evaluated according to the producer's behaviour and the method of work. the impact on public health and consumer safety, all of which have a direct effect on our economy and sustainable development, should also be considered. it is important to include all these criteria in our business semantics. we will ensure the development of the regional and european economy and trade. i have decided at this stage to bring a higher level of consistency to public procurement in the report for which i am the rapporteur in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection by establishing preference for local products. in conclusion, i would like to say that as far as food is concerned, we must distinguish between the origin of the food and its provenance, allow for a clearer labelling of foodstuffs - this is already the case and is in the process of being done - and clearly indicate, in the case of animals, the place of rearing, slaughter and consumption, or sale. this is very important because origin and provenance are two completely different things, and you don't want to mislead the consumer.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the situation is not ideal, as you said. that's a euphemism for a little bit of fun. europe has been in a serious crisis for several years now and, i fear, for several more years to come, with budgetary problems and difficulty in finding resources. each of our member states is trying to prepare its budget. we are trying to demonstrate the added value of the european union and european means and we are struggling to do so. and it is at a time when even the most fervent of us are calling for a reduction in the european budget that we are taking this decision. i find that quite mind-blowing! in this very particular crisis context, we are being asked, tonight and tomorrow, to vote in favour of this amending budget of eur 650 million in commitment appropriations, which is in addition to the eur 479 million already provided for the iter project in the 2012 budget. so we're left with a credit line of 1.12 billion. one and a half billion! this is 1% of the european budget. can you believe it? we are out of money, we are broke, we are in trouble, and we are spending 1.12 billion euros on a project that the most optimistic people tell us could eventually, by 2050, or even by 2080, bear some fruit. but we are crazy! have we gone completely mad? at the moment when everything is going wrong, when the ship is sinking, we are spending astronomical sums on a project for which we see absolutely no prospect - at least in the medium term. granted, some budgets may not be taken out of the budget. but i... we have pointed to the framework programme, europe 2020, research, etc., but everything we put in that post is not put elsewhere. so it is not being put into renewable energy, which has immediate effects. if we invest in renewables right now, we have an immediate effect. not in 2050, not in 2080, but in 2013, in 2014, with job creation. so i don't understand how we can continue to engage in such folly at a time when we are in such difficulty. mrs. herzog, you were just reminding us of the history of this project. you said he was born in the aftermath of the cold war. i did. wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. thirty years have passed since then, thirty years! hasn't the world changed a little bit? should we not reassess our budgets? in the present situation, where europeans are getting poorer, where they no longer believe in the european project, where our member states are having difficulty in closing their budgets and we are having difficulty in preparing our own, should we continue to spend €1.12 billion on this project in 2012? and the years after that, too, because it's not just 2012? you tell us: the next year, 2013, 2014, all the way to 2020! are we going to continue this progression? i really think we're totally hallucinating about this project, which we're caring about almost sickly, when all the indicators are in the red. you will therefore understand that, for my part, for my group, we will not be able to vote on this amending budget. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, that is the problem, we are stuck in a technology of the past. nuclear power is a thing of the past. we have to get out of this slowly, and the nuclear fusion illusion is something that, in an almost ideological way -- even religious way -- some people want to believe in, when we have no evidence that by 2050, or even 2080, it will provide any kind of answer to our energy problems. so i don't understand how anyone can hang on to it. we had these discussions when we visited cadarache. the engineers' answers were frankly not convincing, other than to tell us that it's good. i do not understand how we can remain attached to this technology of the past.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, mr garriga polledo, thank you for accepting my question. i do not understand why you are presenting this project as a flagship project, when neither you nor i nor anyone else is sure that it will actually solve our energy problems, and why you are claiming that the crisis is an alibi. look at how we are having difficulty today in preparing our budget, how the states are having such difficulty in drawing up their own budgets, how we are failing to finance the 2020 programme and all the commitments we have made. i do not understand why the crisis can be considered an alibi, and i object to that.
mr president, our rapporteur, jo leinen, has stressed how important it is for our parliament and for the union to keep the environment at the top of its agenda. this is not easy in these times of crisis and austerity where these concerns are often relegated to the background in national politics and in the media. i think the presidential campaign in france is a good example of that. i believe that there are two priorities, two lines of action, for doing more with less money: first, the need to move towards greater coherence. it is mentioned in paragraph 3 of the resolution. this is what i shall call, in summary, the tobacco case law: the european union must abolish all subsidies for products which have adverse effects on the environment and on biodiversity. secondly, there is another aspect which has not been mentioned much so far, namely the need to take better account of environmental health. we have been recalling this since 2003 and since my report on the environment/health action plan. we must reduce the exposure of our populations to the cocktails of chemicals that have serious health effects. that's why it's critical to add this environmental component to plans to fight cancer, alzheimer's, obesity, all of the chronic diseases that explode in unhealthy environments.
when i first read the report on women and climate change, i thought it was a satirical text, a persiflage to mock the atmosphere of political correctness that is alien to this parliament, but it turns out to be bitterly serious. the first of these is the fact that women are more likely to consume in a sustainable way and are more willing to protect the environment than men. where do they get that from? is there any research on that? i would suggest, however, that since we seem to have time to deal with such matters here, that this report be followed by a report on men and climate change, gays and climate change, redheads and left-handers and climate change, why not also stamp collectors and climate change, with my apologies to all the demographic groups and subgroups that i could not mention here.
in writing. - president, commissioner, a modern and effective higher education is crucial for the future of europe. by 2020, at least one in three jobs in the eu will require higher education. today, on average, only one in four young people graduate from college or university. so we need to put a big catch-up on the road. at the same time, we need to invest much more in cross-border studies: our new ambition is that by 2020, 20% of all students will have completed part of their studies or training abroad. a doubling from today. so there's work to be done. and finally, this: despite the criticism of the new model of ranking for higher education, i still think we should at least give this u-multirank system a chance. only because it is based on the needs of the student, and not the prestige of the educational institution. it's a fresh approach, at least. education is about much more than just available budgets for r&d and the number of publications in reputable journals. we support the commission in this project and look forward to the final result by the summer.
in writing. − after the eu parliament has already called for increased application of the bologna process for the harmonisation of studies (bachelor and master), this report addresses another challenge facing universities. it is indeed necessary that training should be 'work oriented towards labour and the market economy'. research and technological developments in many fields must be given greater weight in training plans in order to bring the university and the world of work closer together and to make it easier for those who have been trained to make the leap into professional life.
in writing. young graduates in europe are among the first to be affected by unemployment and a particularly sclerotic labour market. this is why higher education is important, since it is better adapted to the changing world of work and the needs of employers. this is also the message delivered this afternoon by the european parliament, which, by adopting the tőkés report by a very large majority, underlined the need for member states to modernise their higher education systems. only 200 of the 4000 european higher education institutions are among the top 500 in the world. creating the right conditions to attract the talents of tomorrow and to stem the brain drain is therefore more imperative than ever if the european union is to remain globally competitive and to successfully face the reality that by 2020, 35% of all jobs in europe will require highly skilled workers. other ways of helping young europeans deserve to be put into practice with the ultimate objective of investing 2% of the gdp of each member state in education. i am thinking in particular of real access to higher education for all social groups, the facilitation of student financial loan schemes and better recognition of qualifications acquired abroad.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me paraphrase the newly elected president of france, as did mr swoboda. he won the election saying, "change is now!" i would rather say that europe is about change. we need europe now, on 9 may. mr president, in view of the seriousness of the crisis we are in today - and we must admit this, because it is good to say so many positive things about the past, but we must also acknowledge the seriousness of the present situation - i would say that europe is being marginalized in the world. europe is facing a trend of slowing growth and innovation, the exact opposite of the incredible catch-up movement of emerging countries. europe is currently experiencing an ageing population in a world that is becoming considerably younger, a world that will soon have ten billion inhabitants. europe, on the other hand, remains fragmented, divided by its nation states in a world increasingly dominated and unified by great economic and political empires. ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what is being said, the crisis we are experiencing in europe today is not a crisis of the world economy, it is not even a crisis of world finance, what we are experiencing today is in fact a european crisis and, more particularly, a crisis of the european states. for some years now, europe - and we must admit this on 9 may - has been navigating without a horizon, without ambition, without hope, apparently unable, for the time being, to find a new direction and sustainable solutions. i believe that on 9 may, instead of congratulating each other, we must realize our inability to respond to this crisis in any other way than by the 'policy of small steps'. we must realize the need for a great leap forward, a great federal leap forward in europe. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that europe will be federal or it will not be. the choice is as simple as that. we must stop being afraid of words and of using the word 'federal' when we talk about the future of europe. we need a federal solution, a solution which will give us the real economic government we need, the real democratic control we do not have at the moment, a real european treasury and a real federal budget, and why not, later on, a solution which will one day lead us to a real european army. we have no choice. european federalism is the only way to integrate into globalisation, the only way to negotiate on an equal footing and the only way to maintain our economic and political role. it is also the only way to protect our social model in europe. i also believe, mr president, that today, on 9 may, is the time to turn a page, a page of illusion. the illusion of some who believe that only austerity will get us out of the crisis, but also the illusion of others who think that growth can return without putting the public finances of the states in order. it is a great mistake to have opposed the one to the other in recent years. we must not choose between discipline and solidarity, between rigor and growth, we need both: growth and rigor, discipline and solidarity. and more specifically, the fiscal compact. the fiscal compact must not be changed but growth must be added to the fiscal compact, and the capital of the european investment bank must be increased. all the european funds available must be deployed. and finally, project bonds how long have we talked about them here in this house must see the light of day. second, pooling of the debt redemption fund is needed. let us pay less interest to the bond holders so that the new money becomes available for investment and for growth in europe. my conclusion of 9 may is clear: if we as the european union want to survive, we need federalism, european federalism. federalism is not something to be afraid of: federalism is the future of our continent and its future starts now on 9 may. (applause) i would like to thank you.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i will continue along the same lines as my previous colleagues. i'm feeling a little mixed up today. on the one hand, it is true, i recognize mrs kroes as a liberal, as i like them, a liberal who wants real competition in the market and who is against all abuse of a dominant position. it is not for nothing that you were commissioner of competition before. i would like to thank mrs niebler for her considerable efforts to improve the commission's proposal and also to tackle these monopolies. so we can be somewhat pleased that today we see prices for data roaming on the market that can be up to 10 000 times the cost. can you imagine that? 10,000 times the cost! these are obviously extreme examples but they are part of reality and we will bring this down, in the long run, to a ratio that will be roughly 50 times the cost price. so we can say: "praise jah, you people! we're going from a ratio of 10,000 to a ratio of 50, which is a good thing!" that said, tell me in what truly competitive market do we see profit margins of this order? how is it possible that in an economy which is, in principle, a large market economy - "social market economy", yes, but still a market economy - we can still find margins of this order? in french, we call it racket! the word is not french, but you understand what we're talking about. the regulation we put in place actually keeps this racket going because, as we have seen in the past, all real prices converge towards the ceiling we set. this means that there is no real competition. i know that the commission has made a great deal of effort to ensure that there are structural measures which bring about genuine competition, but i agree with mr goebbels: how is it possible that these four large groups which are de facto present throughout the internal market - we call it an internal market - behave as if we were in twenty-seven hermetically separated national markets. this is obviously unacceptable. that is the source of my bitterness about the text we are voting on tomorrow. we voted against it in committee to encourage angelika to go further. however, it must be admitted that, while the text which will be adopted represents significant progress, it is still far, far from being a success in terms of consumer protection. i hope, therefore, that, as jens rohde said, we will not have to re-establish new standards in terms of roaming price ceilings in four years' time. it's not normal. what i want to see is real competition. we saw what happened with free in france. it's a national market effort. we need a lot more competition. the racket of the telecommunications and mobile telephone operators is a racket which must be stopped, as all rackets in a self-respecting economy.
president, commissioner, yesterday one of the main points in the belgian press was that young people in belgium send an average of 71 text messages a day. that's a lot, even for a frequent text-messenger like myself, but it does indicate what the world of young people is like. there's an insane amount of texting, just like you see a lot of people on the train downloading data and reading newspapers. it's just become our world. we don't just make phone calls, we text and we use a lot of data traffic. in this respect, it is particularly noteworthy that we have not yet found a solution to the high prices, the high national prices, especially in my country. secondly, from a european perspective it is totally unacceptable that we have not yet found a solution to these roaming charges. this is bizarre - and mr goebbels has shown this very well - because there is no good reason why telephone services from antwerp to paris should be so much more expensive than from marseille to paris. we all know that has to do with some of the big corporations that make insane profits off of it. so we are taking a step forward and, as a modern social democrat, i do not really care whether the cat is gray or black, as long as it catches mice, as long as the problem is solved. we want competition. we want an open market. if that doesn't work, we'll put a price cap on it. we are doing that today and that will at least ensure that prices are reduced by the summer and that they are put into a somewhat more normal perspective. in the long term, this parliament, and certainly this part of it, wants those roaming charges to be abolished in full and in time. we 've agreed to 2016 and you and your services especially - because it goes to the next legislature - will be addressed . national tariffs must also be drastically reduced. because picking up data traffic, calling and texting is a right and our consumers should not pay too much for it.
in writing. for too long, the real competition, which is beneficial to consumers, has been to absent subscribers! the european parliament is coming to the rescue as of 1 july. on the one hand, the reduction in roaming costs is a great thing for the citizen, but that is not all. european consumers will be able to purchase specific packages for their own communication or for mobile internet roaming, possibly from another operator. citizens who go on holiday to europe will no longer have to pay their phone bill on their return. all bonuses equally for all border citizens. and for maximum convenience, the consumer will be able to use this service without having to change numbers. finally, to avoid unpleasant surprises for consumers, operators will be obliged to send a message to the user with all the costs of the country where he arrives, and wherever he is in the world. and if we find that the operators are not playing the game in this area as in others, we will re-cover in 2014-2015.
mr president, unless we make a radical change, we shall be able to have many more debates here on lampedusa and mass immigration to europe. as long as the extremely lax asylum and immigration policies of the european union and most of the european member states continue, tens of thousands of people will be encouraged to cross each year to lampedusa, to pantelleria, to malta, to the canary islands and so on, with all the human tragedies that will result. the traffickers will be happy to have it and they will be grateful to the politically correct bleeding hearts in the commission and the european parliament. gentle healers make stinking wounds. it is therefore in everyone's interest that people who do not qualify for refugee status are promptly and effectively returned to their country of origin and that they realise that their journey was pointless. but that message must also be communicated very clearly. the eu must finally get its external borders under control, otherwise there is no other option than to simply abolish the whole idea of the schengen area and open internal borders.
the resolution before us, mr president, is a very technical debate, but we must think it through and not rush into it. i myself have a background in biotechnology and i understand that there is a necessary balance to be struck between the protection of intellectual property rights and the possibility for breeders to develop new varieties and also to protect them with breeder rights. however, this resolution focuses on some of these discussions. the 1998 patents directive excludes plant and animal varieties and essential biological processes from patenting. however, there is considerable disagreement on the interpretation of this principle and the highest court of the european patent office has also concluded in previous decisions that it was impossible to give a clear interpretation. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the fact that the commission has indicated that it wants to come up with a new and transparent proposal is an important signal. the resolution excludes not only the classical and conventional breeding methods and their products from patentability, but also new techniques as such, such as assisted selection and other innovative technologies, which are not patentable. this is a potential brake on innovation in the european union. another problem is the broad exception for plant breeders' rights proposed in the resolution. this breeder's exemption already exists today in the breeder's legislation, but is limited by the concept of essentially derived varieties. in the case of patent law, too, this exception exists only in a few countries and then only in a very limited way and only for the development of new plant varieties, not for the commercialisation of these varieties. the resolution does not take these facts into account at all. the amendments concerning stem cell research are also unacceptable to us and are separate from the rest of this resolution. the resolution before us contains too many factual errors and takes a different direction in the debate from ours. we need to strike a balance between protecting intellectual property, safeguarding and encouraging innovation and the possibility for growers to develop new varieties. we therefore want to amend the resolution on important points and cannot support it in its present form. europe has in the past driven a large part of the plant biotechnology industry out of europe through wrong and ideologically inspired regulation. let us not make the same mistake with this resolution.
monica (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the european commission (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the european parliament (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the council (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the european commission (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the european parliament (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the council (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the european commission (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the european parliament (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the council (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the european commission (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the european parliament (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the council (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the european commission (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the european parliament (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the council (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the european commission (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the european parliament (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the council (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the council (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the european parliament (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the council (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the european commission (com (2011) 7707 final report) to the european parliament (com (2011) 77074) to the council (com (2011) 77074) the european parliament (com (2011) 77074) the european parliament (com (2011) 77074) the council (com (2011) 77074) the european parliament (com (2011) 77074) the council (com (2011) 77074) the european parliament and the council the council the european parliament the council the european parliament the european parliament the council the european parliament the council the european parliament the council the european parliament the council the european parliament the european i would like to welcome the president of the european court of auditors, mr vítor da silva caldeira.
i am not going to go into the details of the report, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of putting forward this report. the discharge of the council and iter on the one hand, and the agency for medicinal products for human use, the european food safety authority and the environment agency on the other. i would like to ask the council once again to be reasonable and to give in to the wishes of the discharge authority. we want nothing less than an understanding of the accounts. the council's expenditure is fundamentally different from that of 40 years ago. as regards iter, i call for my amendment to be adopted, which aims to re-evaluate the iter project and to have a clear view of future funding needs. then the agencies. there is a fundamental distinction between the ema and the efsa on the one hand and the environment agency on the other. the ema and the efsa have been under fire for years, and we at the environment agency would like to put the dots on the i. as regards the ema and the efsa, i would like to draw attention to the financing of both agencies. ema is already 73% funded by fees paid by the pharmaceutical industry. the efsa, the food safety authority, has not yet done so, but it is on the agenda. and that is dangerous. good rules are needed, otherwise at least the perception of possible influence on the results of product evaluation will arise. the committee on budgetary control calls for attention to be paid to combating conflicts of interest and the revolving door policy. as regards the agency for medicinal products, we have the former director who, while still director, set up a consultancy firm, now works there and advises the pharmaceutical industry. that is a reprehensible practice. with regard to the efsa: i visited the food safety authority in parma last week with a delegation from the environment committee. the positive is the will to transparency, the will to change. it also shows that the action of parliament and of individual members of this parliament is really working. the work of the rapporteur, the work of a colleague like josé bové, is remarkable and very useful. for example, efsa was far too slow to recognize that there was something wrong with a former employee switching to a company like syngenta. we call for special attention to be paid to the links between members of the efsa board of directors, scientific experts and ilsi, a notorious lobbying organisation, funded by food giants such as mcdonalds, coca-cola, nestlé, basf, danone, kraft, monzanto, syngenta and unilever. that's the problem. it is good that the chairman of the board resigned the day before yesterday because she had and has too close ties with ilsi. she's been working for this organization since yesterday. scientific research by efsa should not rely solely on research and data from industry. independent experts and independent research should also be included. we need to monitor the links between scientific experts and the biotech industry, the food industry and lobby groups. we are not giving a discharge now, because we want to draw up a concrete action plan so that we can also give a discharge to the efsa in october. as regards the court of auditors, i would urge that the report on possible conflicts of interest in the ema and efsa agencies be published as a matter of urgency. finally, the environment agency, very briefly. the usefulness of that agency is not in question. what is at issue are a number of past practices: the director's links with an ngo, possible problems with public procurement. i call for close cooperation between parliament and the environment agency to clarify these matters so that we can give discharge in october. i thank you, mr president, for the few seconds you have given me.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, my group requests postponement of the vote on this resolution. it is a resolution which is not only very complicated but which was added at the end – indeed, at the very last minute – and i think that not only my group but also other groups had insufficient time to prepare on this very complex and technical issue. my request is simply to put this vote on the agenda for the may ii part session. i am not asking that it be scheduled ad calendas graecas. may ii means only a two-week difference, but it will give us an opportunity for serious discussion in the groups.
in writing. regional airports and air services are not only essential as transport hubs, helping to facilitate the smooth functioning of the european single market by transporting citizens and goods between regions, but they also have a crucial function as drivers of economic growth. in this respect, i welcome the vote on this report, which clearly calls for a balance with international airports and a strengthening of the role of regional airports. in this connection, i would like to highlight some of the strong demands in the text: improving connectivity with other modes of transport; banning the 'single baggage rule', which has a negative influence on the commercial activities of airports; improving the networking of regional airports, which must offer an alternative in the event of congestion in the connecting platforms. efficiency, accessibility and cost-effectiveness must be the main priorities of regional airports, and they must not become the plaything of local politics.
in writing. - i am in favour of the intention to draw up a resolution on regional airports, but it would have to be coherent and contain solutions for regional airports. unfortunately, this is not the case in the motion for a resolution which is now before us, which is why i did not vote in favour of this resolution. regional airports are of great importance for territorial cohesion and economic and social development in the regions. they are important as transport hubs and contribute to economic growth. the measures must be specifically tailored to them. while a definition of regional airports should be drawn up, it should not exclude airports whose main catchment area is above a capital city, as called for in this resolution, as this would mean excluding many existing regional airports from the scope. in addition, air freight is particularly important for regional airports. this has been overlooked in this resolution, which, with a few exceptions, is more concerned with passenger numbers and passenger concerns. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's airports are not subject to the same rules as those applied to airports in the united kingdom. the economic burden must be balanced against long-term profitability, as regional airports are often not profitable at the outset but can be financially self-sustaining in the long term and thus represent a significant added value for the whole region.
in writing. i am in favour of a single seat and that it should eventually be in brussels. i abstained on amendment no 6! if it is just a poll, no problem, i am 'for' everything being centralised in brussels. but is a vote just a poll and should this very important question be raised by way of an amendment? i cannot vote in favour of this without being able to vote on the consequences of such a decision. that would be like buying a cat in a bag, "buying a pig in a poke". what will happen to the distribution of the institutions following the transfer of strasbourg to brussels or the domino game which could prove financially painful if bad decisions were taken? i also don't want it to be a disaster for belgium or anyone else. we must think about the consequences for direct and indirect employment upstream, not downstream when it is too late! we are in the same situation here. when all the consequences for employment, the consequences for brussels and the real financial consequences are planned in the same vote, then we can have a real discussion and above all a real vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report and also supported an amendment calling on the court of auditors to draw up a special report on the implementation of parliament's budget with regard to efficiency, effectiveness and savings, and to indicate where sound financial management could be further improved.
in writing. i welcome the vote on this report because the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european union ensures that the budget is used in a sound way vis-à-vis the taxpayers. in times of economic crisis, when austerity is required of the member states, we must be particularly vigilant in ensuring that the union uses its financial resources with caution in order to limit waste and fraud as much as possible.
in writing. the european parliament has decided not to grant discharge to the european food safety authority (efsa), whose costs are considered excessive and for which conflicts of interest have been established. as a member of the parliament's committee on the environment and public health, i have seen firsthand how rightly efsa has been in the news with the resignation of its chairwoman, diana banati, who has taken over the leadership of a major food industry lobby. this has been the subject of much criticism, especially since ms banati's links with the industry have been known for a long time. asked on thursday about the matter, the european commission said it was "regrettin' that mrs banati is going straight from" the food safety agency to the lobby. although this passage is "not illegal as such", it is still contrary to the agency's spirit of independence! today's vote in parliament is therefore a very important signal that conflicts of interest with industry are no longer acceptable!
in writing. - we have today approved the new roaming ceilings. that's good news for those of you who are going abroad this summer. from 1 july, not only will rates for texting and calling continue to fall, but anyone who wants to surf abroad with their smartphone or laptop will no longer have to worry about having to pay an astronomical amount for their mobile phone after the holidays. in a europe without frontiers there is no place for tariffs which differ so much at home and abroad. i hope that the structural measures we are deciding today will lead to customer-friendly packages so that we will soon no longer have to impose price ceilings.
in writing. until now, mobile phone charges abroad have been significantly higher than domestic charges. sometimes we were witness to real scams! the new eu regulation adopted today puts an end to this totally unfair pricing. it introduces new limits for voice calls, sms and, for the first time, data downloads. the reduction of the ceilings is planned in three stages: for example, an sms will cost 9 cents on 1 july 2012, 7 cents in 2013 and 5 cents in 2014. so this is very good news for users. the new ceilings will come into effect on 1 july 2012 and will save consumers from finding very annoying mobile phone bills when they return from their summer holidays!
in writing. - i welcome this report for two reasons. firstly, this further reduction of the tariff ceilings is absolutely necessary because the prices of suppliers have still not been reduced sufficiently and competition is still being impeded. the elimination of monopolies in the roaming market and the facilitation of access to networks for smaller providers will allow fair prices for eu citizens and further promote the single market. secondly, it finally addresses the problem of involuntary roaming, which occurs mainly in border areas when the mobile signal of the domestic operator is too weak and therefore the foreign signal is used. border residents are surprised to receive their bill and to be charged for roaming, even though they have not left their home country - this must be stopped as soon as possible, and this report is a first step in that direction.
in writing. the aim of the roaming regulation (3) is to continue to cap roaming prices, to facilitate access to the wholesale market for new alternative operators, to allow consumers to choose freely another operator for roaming services independently of their national operator from 2014. with the advancement of new technologies, communications from our mobile phone are everywhere. in a europe without frontiers, we must avoid any surprise of excessive charges to the citizen. the latter must be able to use his mobile phone, with the operator of his choice, in a member state other than that of his residence. the objective of this structural process is to achieve naturally low roaming prices through effective competition between operators.
in writing. vote on "phone roaming" this afternoon, and great news for consumers' wallets, who will see their mobile phone rates abroad fall again. since roaming charges are not the main factor in consumers' choice of operator, operators are happy to accept them and charge often prohibitive rates, particularly in belgium. this is why the public sector is fully justified in placing a ceiling on these amounts within the limits of what is reasonable for voice calls and sms, but also for data roaming. for example, the maximum rates for sms abroad will be divided by 5 in five years, from eur 0.29 before 2009 to eur 0.11 in 2009 and gradually reach the ceiling of eur 0.06 in 2014, which is less than the cost of an sms for a user in belgium! the data transfer will be capped at €0.70 in july 2012, €0.45 in july 2013 and €0.20 in july 2014! the opportunity to recall that mobile phone rates in belgium are the highest in europe and to recall the need for the government to quickly remedy this anomaly...
in writing. in the age of crossborder communications, these additional costs imposed on european consumers became totally unjustified. citizens who go on holiday to europe will no longer have to break their bank to pay their telephone bill on their return. all bonuses equally for all border citizens. and for maximum convenience, the consumer will be able to use this service without having to change numbers. finally, to avoid unpleasant surprises for consumers, operators will be obliged to send a message to the user with all the costs of the country where he arrives, and wherever he is in the world. today, the european citizen is paying too much for his communications. my ultimate goal is for the consumer to finally pay a fair price. by 2016, a study will be carried out to analyse the behaviour of operators as a result of this new regulation. if we find that the price grid is still exaggerated or that the difference between the national and european levels is too great, we will re-introduce a new amendment procedure. for too long, the real competition, which is profitable for consumers, has been for absent subscribers! the european parliament comes to the rescue.
in writing. through new technologies, defamation crosses borders all too easily. so which law should we apply? what country? it is important to establish clear rules within the union in order to strike a balance between freedom of expression and the right to privacy. the creation of a single body will make it possible to decide which country has jurisdiction in the event of international disputes. in a hyper-connected world, in a world where the impact of information is multiplied tenfold, it was necessary for the eu to have such an authority. respect for the right to privacy and the right to the image of individuals within the european union must be guaranteed. the exercise of fundamental freedoms and rights must respect democratic values.
in writing. i welcome the vote on the resolution on the eu's trade strategy with the countries of the southern mediterranean. the text is very balanced and provides a good in-depth analysis of the current situation following the arab spring. i think it offers good prospects in the medium and long term. it is not just a trade strategy, but a question of developing our trade with our neighbours and of directing it in such a way that the eu can support the democratic transition of these countries. it is essential that we play a role in this area so that the people can experience a significant improvement in their rights and living conditions. that is why i thought it important to draw the attention of the inta committee to certain aspects, such as the greater involvement of civil society in the forthcoming partnerships. it would also be appropriate for the ecb to support more strongly the development of smes in the southern mediterranean countries. these should be at the heart of their growth. i would like to conclude with a point which i consider to be fundamental: the mobility and exchange of students from both sides of the atlantic. we should adopt major programmes to promote them, because the future of our countries depends on a greater understanding of each other.
in writing. i voted with 191 meps against the resolution on the patenting of essentially biological processes. indeed, behind this legal jargon lies one of the most important battles of the moment: what place is given to therapeutic freedom in an open and modern society? it is also right to question the motives of the signatories of the resolution, who brought it to the plenary "almost clandestinely", when the only legitimate respect for the variety of species, in this case broccoli and tomato, is at stake. these sympathetic claims are a thinly veiled challenge to a whole other dimension: the future of scientific research in europe. the anti-natural coalition of the christian democrats, socialists and greens has also come out with the adoption of amendments which glorify the very worrying decision of the european judges of 18 october 2011 excluding any possibility of patentability on the human embryo, even when these cells are used to treat neurological diseases. this resurgence of scientific obscurantism is cause for concern. liberals, progressives and humanists must now unite to ensure that the ethics of hope, which is demanded by the majority of patients and researchers, is triumphant in the 8th research programme.
in writing. the situation in somalia, both in terms of security and food, makes it one of the countries with the most difficult living conditions for the population in the world. piracy, partly due to this situation, has increased in recent years in this important global shipping route. the european operation atalanta has recently been extended by the council, which has also widened its scope. i think there can be no military solution to the crisis in somalia and piracy in the waters of the horn of africa/somalia. i therefore join the european parliament in calling on the council and the commission, through this resolution, to review their political strategy on somalia and to end the eu navfor atalanta operation, which cannot be considered a success given the increasing number of attacks. i therefore call on the commission and the council to support the efforts of the united nations to promote the process of reconciliation between the parties to the civil war in somalia. it is also essential to ensure access to humanitarian aid in the affected areas, the most important of which is to improve the humanitarian situation of the population.
the point is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 22 may 2012.
the agenda calls for the report by emine bozkurt on women in turkey by 2020 [2011/2066(ini) ] (a7-0138/2012).
the point is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 22 may 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by ms maría irigoyen pérez on the strategy to strengthen the rights of vulnerable consumers [2011/2272(ini) ] (a7-0155/2012).
the point is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 22 may 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, it is clear that in the present crisis the role of smes is crucial in boosting employment and combating unemployment, particularly youth unemployment. i therefore believe, as do many colleagues, that their access to the structural funds should be simplified and extended, but also encouraged through training and support in the procedures for access to these funds. i also recognize that the legal framework in which they operate must be adapted to the means they have to meet their obligations, and this is where the definition of an sme is important, because it will determine the law applicable to the company or not. the current definition would cover more than 67% of workers in the union. it is therefore an important part of our economy and of the labour market. as is often the case in our legislative decisions, a balance must be struck. the legal framework for smes must combine the objective of efficiency for their development with the objective of adequate protection of workers' rights and the general interest. but an unbalanced reduction in the administrative burden on smes may involve a risk, for example, in terms of health and safety at work. workers cannot be subject to different risks, in particular concerning measures to improve workers' health and safety at their workplace. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health and safety at work is not seen as an administrative burden, or to reduce the accounting and financial obligations of certain smes, which, in my view, is a matter of concern for the workers' representatives. how can workers be involved in the decision-making processes of companies if they do not have the information on the basis of which decisions on restructuring, for example, are taken? a minimum of transparency towards workers and third parties is a necessity. so in the hunt for excessive administrative burdens for smes, let us not lose sight of the objective of these burdens and let us not discriminate against the workers of these enterprises.
i have abstained on this report, although i naturally agree with most of the recommendations calling for equal rights and equal opportunities for women in turkey. then why didn't i vote? firstly, because it is strange to me that this report does not address the heart of the problem, namely the rise in turkey of a very radical islam, a kind of islam that has actually remained stuck in the middle ages and where women are by definition considered and treated as inferior beings. it is equally unacceptable to me that in this report, as in many others, we do not have the courage to impose strict conditions on the flow of billions of european subsidies that have been going to turkey for years, for example on human rights and freedom of expression. finally, we should have the courage to state clearly and unequivocally that turkey is not a european country, has never been a european country, has no european culture and that, therefore, potential accession to the european union must be rejected.
i have abstained on the bozkurt report because i think that there are some positive and some negative elements in it. it is important that we as the european parliament stand up for the rights of women, both in europe and outside europe, including in an asian and islamic country like turkey, where so-called 'murders' are taking place, where forced marriages are commonplace. it is good that the report mentions this, even if it does so in a rather hesitant way. why is there not a clear discussion of the increasing islamization of turkish society? we are talking about a deep cultural undercurrent that cannot be tackled or countered with regulatory initiatives. it is clear that such a country does not belong in the european union, and therefore it is rather extravagant and strange that the report advocates the so-called 'european perspective for turkey'.
in writing. i welcome the vote on this report which emphasises respect for fundamental rights in the implementation of the european internal security strategy (iss). this european strategy, which was presented by the commission in november 2010, includes a series of initiatives on terrorism, cybercrime and border management. each aspect of these initiatives should fully respect european and international human rights standards. today we have outlined the priorities which should be pursued by the european strategy. the fight against terrorism and organised crime, including mafias, white collar crime, tax fraud and corruption, should therefore remain the 'key priority', with particular attention to freezing the assets of terrorism suspects. member states should also, in parallel, introduce effective legislation to assist victims of terrorism and are also required to strengthen the prevention of terrorist acts, such as the early detection of radicalisation.
in writing. the fight against terrorism and organised crime is, and must remain, a key priority of the internal security strategy (iss). however, the fight against corruption is also essential. the union must not only know how to react, but also how to prevent and interpret. a common threat assessment system should therefore be developed to enable early detection of signs of violent radicalisation or threats. a comprehensive approach is essential to achieve an effective security policy within the european union. the judicial systems of the member states should be able to cooperate optimally, including with the assistance of europol and eurojust. there is a need for synergies between the internal and external aspects of security. particular attention should be paid to security and border management. full respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights is an integral part of and must remain inseparable from this internal security strategy of the union. a clear division of tasks between the union and national levels is essential. parliament must also be involved in the process of formulating the union's security policies.
in writing. the borsellino report contains many worthy recommendations for strengthening internal security in our european union. but i think it is a bit of a wash with the faucet open as long as we stick to the ideological grind of 'open borders'. why should the reintroduction of border controls be rejected by definition when there are so many problems of illegality and crime? and how is it possible that in may 2012, after the elections in greece and france, which were largely about the border problem and the schengen problems, we approve such a report without talking about it? all of this seems to me to be a denial of very real problems. we are now experiencing firsthand what gentle healers do in these stinking wounds.
in writing. in voting for this report, we defended strong criteria for the implementation of the new european criminal legislation, between respect for the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity and absolute respect for the principle of the presumption of innocence. our aim was to send a message about the action the commission intends to take in this criminal area. any initiative by the european executive will now have to ensure that the rights of suspects/convicted persons are respected, with the commission considering proposals concerning the protection of the functioning of financial markets, the protection of the eu's financial interests, the protection of the euro against counterfeiting or serious breaches of data protection rules.
in writing. the lisbon treaty provides the basis for new european provisions in criminal matters. however, this is still a very sensitive area. therefore, clear and transparent rules on how and when to use european criminal law should be established. those rules must fully respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. it is crucial that any european criminal law legislation can guarantee the rights protected by the charter of fundamental rights and the european convention on human rights, while respecting the different legal systems and traditions of each member state. it was necessary to set up an interinstitutional working group in which parliament would participate in defining the scope and application of appropriate criminal sanctions at european level. in this context, the information service will be a useful tool for the work of members, thus ensuring the quality of parliament's work as a co-legislator.
in writing. in voting on this report, we called on the european commission and encouraged the 27 to 'carefully and continuously analyse social and consumer situations and behaviours which may lead to the vulnerability of certain groups or individuals, for example by analysing consumer complaints'. we also called on them to tackle vulnerability through specific measures, which, if necessary, will protect all consumers 'regardless of their abilities and at any stage of their lives'. we stressed the need to increase consumer awareness of product safety, particularly targeting children and pregnant women, and asked the commission to carry out a detailed analysis of the impact of misleading and aggressive advertising, particularly on children and adolescents. the eu and its member states are urged to invest more in consumer information and awareness campaigns, as many consumers' vulnerability stems from their lack of assurance, their insufficient understanding of the information they receive or the choices available to them, and their poor knowledge of the claims and compensation systems available to them!
in writing. − many of the eu parliament's situations concerned consumer protection. all consumers are particularly vulnerable, although many of the differences mentioned are not comprehensible. of course, all the proposals made special reference to minors and people with special needs. the aim must be to increase transparency and better define responsibility for the distribution, sale or supply of products or services, in the interests of all consumers and thus also of those most in need of protection.
in writing. while the single market must ensure a high level of protection for all consumers, it must pay particular attention to vulnerable consumers in order to take account of their specific needs. all consumers are likely to become vulnerable consumers at some point in their lives. the diversity of vulnerability situations, however, makes it difficult to adopt a uniform approach and general measures. this vulnerability requires special protection and a special strategy. the capacity of vulnerable people to make optimal decisions in an autonomous manner needs to be strengthened, information and education needs to be improved and they need to have access to the same goods and services as all consumers. particular attention should be paid to persons with disabilities and to children and adolescents who need to be made aware of the risks of aggressive or misleading advertising. they are also particularly vulnerable to the use of new communication technologies such as smartphones, online games and social networks. the elderly and the vulnerable who suffer from the digital divide are also included. in all these situations, flexible legislation is needed to adapt to the different cases of vulnerability.
in writing. the year 2012 marks the 20th anniversary of the single market. it is an opportunity to recall that citizens and businesses are the first beneficiaries of a fully operational and properly functioning single market. this own-initiative report aims to promote a coordinated and cooperative approach to improving the functioning of the single market through better transposition and application of the single market rules. the report focuses mainly on the development of a stronger regulatory framework for the internal market and on bringing the internal market closer to businesses and citizens through a strengthening of existing tools.
in writing. on 9 may, the commission registered its first european citizens' initiative: a petition entitled 'fraternity 2020', which i myself signed in order to give 'a boost' to this youth-oriented initiative. what could be more relevant than to focus on future generations and to strengthen the european exchange programmes which have proved their worth, such as leonardo, erasmus and the european voluntary service. the gurmai report voted on this afternoon does not deal with the issues that the citizens want to take back, but more specifically with the procedure and the role that the european parliament will play in promoting this tool of direct democracy. it wisely proposes to hold public hearings on the most promising citizen initiatives. in view of the six petitions already registered in the race for the million signatures, i simply hope that the european parliament will make it a point to support only those petitions of general interest, those which unite and not divide. the 'uno di noi' initiative, whose objecti­ve is to ban all forms of research on embryonic stem cells, is therefore out. it is obvious that liberal and humanist vigilance is required on this kind of subject!
in writing. - the so-called 'european citizens' initiative' is little more than a layer of pseudo-democratic veneer and has little to do with real democratic participation as it exists in switzerland, for example. how is it possible that we allow a body of politically appointed high officials like the commission to decide which cases are to be dealt with and which are not? how can we call for a 'call for tenders' when essential issues - such as turkey's potential accession to the european union - cannot even be put on the agenda? the fact that the european parliament does not condemn this farce, this well-understood farmer's fraud, is yet another missed opportunity.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the summit tomorrow is the 18th special summit which has been organised since the start of the crisis in december 2009 – the 18th, and every time those organising these summits say ‘yes, this is a final summit, it is an important summit, it is a summit where we shall tackle the real origins of this crisis’. only two months ago, you remember president, in this room, there were a number of eu leaders who said that the crisis was behind us – that it was over – and they were wrong. they were dramatically wrong because this euro crisis started with greece, a country that has an economy representing only 2% of european gdp, but today we are facing another crisis with spain, which is the fourth economy of the eurozone, and with italy, the third economy of the eurozone. together they add up to something as big as the german economy, and these two economies, these two countries, are paying interest rates of more than 6% and we have spreads today of more than 500 basic points. that is today! so let us be clear: not only is this crisis not over, but it is not about greece. it is not a crisis about portugal; it is not a crisis about ireland; it is not about italy or about spain. it is, in my opinion, not even an economic crisis or, indeed, a financial crisis. it is simply a political crisis that we face today in europe, because our leaders today are unable to take the right decision at the right time. they are unable to create what we need, which is an economic and fiscal union alongside the monetary union, and the fact that the current situation is so dramatic is their responsibility. they have, in fact, transformed what was a small financial crisis in december 2009, involving just 2% of european gdp, into a crisis of unforeseen magnitude today. that is the main topic for a nato summit. the euro crisis is a nato summit topic today, and the other leaders of the world are pointing the finger at europe. why? because three things are necessary but our leaders are not capable of deciding on them. first of all we need a real economic and fiscal union. secondly we need to mutualise the debt with a redemption fund as quickly as possible if we want interest rates to go down for countries like spain and italy. thirdly, we need a growth pact to relaunch the european economy. my plea today is not to the council or to the member states, whose interests the council chiefly defends. my plea is to the commission: it has the right of initiative. the ball is in the court of the commission. mr obama is waiting for it; we are waiting for it; even mr cameron is waiting for it. what are you waiting for? that is my question today. my proposal is double. firstly, i ask that the commission should put on the council table a proposal for a redemption fund because that will have a positive effect on the markets, and it will be impossible for even ms merkel to deny it or refuse it. secondly, i am asking for a growth package to be put on the table. we know the various elements of that: increase the capital of the european investment bank; use the unspent money of the european funds; and launch project bonds – and that brings me to my final point. let us be blunt: they told us that tomorrow they would announce project bonds as one of the instruments for economic growth – a proposal worth eur 230 million. that is the proposal which is on the table today. but we need billions, commissioner, not millions, and we need not a temporary solution, as they are discussing, but a permanent solution for growth in europe. so my plea to the commission is this: use the right of initiative that only you have, and put on the table tomorrow a real proposal for project bonds, a real proposal for a redemption fund and a real proposal for a real growth package for europe. (applause)
blue-card question. – mr callanan, i have a hard time taking lectures on competitiveness from the uk, and especially from british conservatives. if i look at the pile of debt that exists in europe, i see that british debts – public and private debt combined – amount to 500% of gdp. right? this is the result of deregulation and basically of the recipes that you are lecturing all of us to adopt. the result is that the british taxpayer was taxed to the tune of several hundreds of billions of pounds to rescue a financial sector gone adrift through your deregulation. so, i am sorry but i have had enough of your lectures.
mr president, the invitation from herman van rompuy to the informal meeting tomorrow, a letter of three pages, has a very succinct sentence at the very bottom, and i quote: "in addition, i propose that at the end of our dinner we discuss recent developments in the eurozone". end of quote. it would almost be funny if the situation wasn't so serious. there's an elephant in the dining room, but if we all pretend together that the elephant isn't there, then maybe it will go away, or at least we'll think it's gone. how can we talk about investment, economic growth and employment without at the same time looking at these issues in the light of the euro crisis, which hangs like a sword of damocles over the prosperity of the euro countries? we have heard some very strange statements in recent weeks, for example from a european commissioner who said that a greek exit from the euro zone would be, i quote, "the end of civilization in that country", nothing more and nothing less. and it is precisely this kind of self-delusion that makes it impossible to come up with real solutions. these solutions, which are not a matter of blind flight, such as direct european taxes, common eurobonds, a so-called european redemption fund, will place even more burdens on the net payers and will only encourage irresponsible behaviour by some net recipient countries. the result will be that the economic problems will only increase in this way.
mr president, when nigel farage says something here, it can make people smile, it is generally well said, but it does not have much of a consequence. but when it is a colleague of mr rehn, namely karel de gucht, european commissioner, or a governor of the european central bank, like mr coene, president of the national bank of belgium, who begins to ramble in public about, seemingly out of nowhere, that greece could leave the euro and that this poses no more problems than that, i believe it is more serious because these people bear an overwhelming responsibility in what happened last week in greece, that is to say the beginning of a banking panic. i believe that when you are a european policy maker, you do not behave casually, as if you were at a coffee shop. (applause) i would like to thank the second thing that concerns me, as it does many of us today, is spain. let's get this straight. of course, this summit meeting tomorrow in brussels can be interesting, but if it does not provide a credible response to what we are putting in place to prevent a financial collapse in spain or italy, we are missing the urgency of the moment. we have few options: either ask the ecb to buy gold, which it cannot do because of the european treaties, or go back to the solution advocated in its day by none other than mr sarkozy, which would be to transform the european stability mechanism into a bank and allow it to lend to the member states or recapitalize the banking sector. i think that's a sensible solution, and it's time we looked at it again. finally, on the question of growth, i would rather talk about investment. if we are to do what we did yesterday in spain, by building 40 airports, or today in greece, by laying down new motorways, i think we are going the wrong way. if we do not put in place an investment programme that makes europe a world champion in energy efficiency, resource efficiency, we are missing the only real opportunity for european economic leadership in the 21st century. so that's what, and that's what only, should motivate us. it's not just investments in concrete and brick. it is investments in education and research, investments in health, which are all factors of competitiveness, to use a term you like to use. so i think that's what this is about. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". it is obvious that investment cannot be financed perpetually by increasing debt. and we are among those who say that we must reduce our corporate debt. that's not up for discussion. so a form of debt brake, absolutely, i agree completely, but we cannot pretend that the only debt that was on future generations was financial debt. we have accumulated a considerable social and environmental debt and so, if we are all prepared to say that we are in favour of a debt brake mechanism on these three levels, then you will have us on board without any restrictions.
mr president, what i like most about the french president is his name. mr hollande turns the french expression le beurre et l’argent du beurre into government policy, and that is why there is no growth. mr hollande reduces the pension age to 60 while people in holland see their pension age increase to 67. hollande demands total solidarity from holland. growth is like love. everybody is in favour. even mr schulz would be. ‘all you need is love’, and all we need is growth, but how to get it? new bridges and motorways do not generate growth alone. no country built more than spain; its unemployment is at 25%. mr obama spend usd 800 billion on a stimulus package, the only thing he stimulated was the national debt. growth is generated by competitiveness, by entrepreneurship, by risk capital and by a low tax burden. precisely the things mr hollande dislikes. therefore he will not have his growth; he will bring about la portugalisation de l’europe. let me finally congratulate the german social democrats, mr bullmann and his friends, with their fellow party member mr thilo sarrazin and his book on the euro. i am going to read it, i hope so will you.
mr president, listening to all these speeches, here and elsewhere, on growth, one might wonder whether there is not, at last, an awareness that the obsession with brutal budgetary austerity will not bring europe out of the crisis. the informal council tomorrow must be an opportunity not to be missed, an opportunity to reorient european policy in the direction long desired by certain heads of government, now joined by the new french president. we need fiscal austerity, debt control, but with a pace of adjustment that does not throw our economies and our people into chaos. the capacity of the eib and the ecb to act needs to be strengthened. we need a stimulus through targeted investment spending, through national budgets, but also from the strengthened european budget, through household spending, by giving more resources to those who spend, a guarantee of employment and training for young people, and higher social minimums. it is through greater solidarity that we will emerge from the crisis.
in writing. a greek exit from the eurozone is not an option. the dangers of a total socioeconomic escalation are far too great. grexit could lead to unprecedented chaos in greece, with labile or extremist parties taking power. this could destabilise the eu's south-eastern flank and eventually lead to armed conflict. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. greece accounts for barely 3% of eu gdp. so the greek question is by definition manageable. the eu must take over the management of greek debt at a faster pace, as we propose with the debt redemption fund. this gives the people affected (greeks, but also spaniards, portuguese, etc.) a new perspective and a guarantee that the eu will not abandon them. there's no other way. the leaders of europe, the eu commissioners in particular, must stop trumpeting about a 'grexit'. they'll have to go another way. a path that does bring back hope and perspective.
madam president, as the commissioner has said, belgium is appalled by the murder of a young man who was kidnapped and beaten to death on 22 april because of his sexual orientation. this murder is a tragic example of what homophobia can lead to. this is a dramatic example that shows that while homophobia is still largely underestimated, it is very real. and the sad reality of homophobic violence is not unique to belgium. homosexuals are still subject to discrimination and harassment, and even physical attacks, in most member states. in belgium, the government has expressed its willingness to implement a national action plan against homophobia, in order to systematically combat violence against lgbt people. the union, which is proud to stand for individual freedom and respect for the principles of tolerance and non-discrimination, must, like belgium, fight for a european action plan to combat homophobia. a first step in this direction would be the adoption in the council of the horizontal anti-discrimination directive, as advocated in my report on social inclusion.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. - president. - europe and china are of course very important trading partners. china has an increasing impact on the global economy today, and so it also has a huge responsibility to uphold social standards. respect for human and social rights is also essential in the context of cooperation between europe and china. the committee on employment welcomes the efforts made in this area by the chinese central and also local governments. but we point out that sustainable financing of a stable social security and health system, which benefits all provinces of the country equally, is one of the greatest challenges facing the chinese government in the near future. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of workers from harmful exposure to asbestos. it is not up to us to lecture china all the time, but we can help by sharing experience and working methods, setting up new systems. we also point out the responsibility of western companies operating in china. finally, we ask the commission to implement an integrated european policy in the south-east asian region and to launch the investment strategy with china as soon as possible.
mr president, i think that this report is very timely, firstly because, as has been said, commissioner de gucht is going to meet the chinese next week, but also because we in the european parliament have organised a high-level forum with the chinese with all the parties and so this report can be discussed. and i think that's a good report. i cannot say that i would sign every word of it, but i think it is a good report which has emphasized the essential points: so, as everyone has said, the question of reciprocity is extremely important, with fair competition and clear rules; there is also all that has been said about intellectual property rights, counterfeiting and piracy and here i sign with both hands , including the firm request to the chinese to introduce international rules into their legislation and to check their implementation; finally, there is another important element, namely to invite european companies which have succeeded in entering the chinese market to set an example in social and environmental standards - all this is important - and then to ask the commission to coordinate bilateral policies towards china better. what i like about this report - and i say this because we are going to meet the chinese - is that it is a respectful report. it is a report that is frank, that is direct, that is respectful, and i think that is a language that our chinese friends can understand, and even ask for. i would like to remind you that this is a great country in every sense of the word, with almost one and a half billion inhabitants, which has managed to lift a third of its population out of poverty in a very short time and which today must make efforts - and i insist, and i say this with my colleagues - but with great respect both in terms of social standards and human rights. china knows that. it has included some of these aspects in its five-year plan, and we will be here to discuss all these topics without any taboos.
mr president, madam minister, commissioner, there is a coincidence in the timing: we are discussing this tax today, at the very time when an informal summit on all the issues relating to the recovery of europe is to take place. i really believe that this is no coincidence and that the financial transaction tax is not only a fair contribution from a sector which has been largely responsible for the crisis we are experiencing today, but also a resource of its own for the european union, a resource, a recipe for financing this famous recovery that we all hope for. i think, therefore, that this own resource and the battle for own resources are fundamental. we must not separate the issue of the financial transaction tax from that of own resources. we need this resource, and perhaps others, to finance the recovery projects. we know how austerity, and austerity alone, leads to exasperation and sometimes even to votes and political situations that are truly dead ends. so i think today we have to move forward. the commission's proposal is a good one. it is not without its own objections, including the one just mentioned on the question of the place of the transaction. i hope, therefore, that we can take it forward, including in the council, which is a heavy burden for you.
mr president, as has already been stressed in this debate, the introduction of a financial transaction tax only makes sense if it has a european dimension, although it should in fact have a global dimension. it is therefore logical that the commission, with the support of this parliament, should want to make it a european tax. the next logical step would therefore be to make this tax part of the european revenue, thus giving the budget a more solid base than that of a normal budget. it has been repeatedly stressed here that the tax should contribute to growth. the introduction of the financial transaction tax as the union's own revenue - which, in order to be its own revenue, meets all the criteria set out in the lamassoure report and by the commission - would support the european budget. and the european budget is a growth budget. it would thus be an instrument for growth and at the same time would lighten the burden on national budgets, since it would lead to a reduction in national contributions to the european budget. so we have here a typical instrument which can support the dual objective of fiscal consolidation and growth and employment at the same time.
in writing. the podimata report on the common system for taxing financial transactions is a real success for the european socialists and democrats, for whom taxation is a key instrument in the response to the crisis. the resolution adopted finally gives a concrete and fair answer to finance, which until now has not been affected by any regulation, despite being directly responsible for it. the 0.1% tax rate for shares and bonds and the 0.01% for derivatives, which is favoured by the majority of european citizens, provide europe with an effective control instrument and a tool to combat tax evasion. the tax will also be applied, according to the principles of the place of issue and residence, to financial institutions and non-european securities. i am critical of the exemption for pension funds, because they are the true tigers of the financial markets and, as they carry out high-risk speculative operations, should be subject to the same controls.
mr president, can you stop for 30 seconds so we can discuss this? we have no common voting list at all, which is a small problem. just thirty seconds...
in writing. the purpose of this report is to conclude a protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement with mozambique. it comprises: a financial contribution the overall financial contribution of the protocol is set at eur 2,94 million for the entire period (3 years), and the annual financial contribution to be allocated from the union budget is therefore eur 980 000/year; fisheries: the fishing opportunities available to the european tuna fleet will be made available to 43 tuna seiners and 32 longliners, for a total of 75 vessels. this protocol will cover a period of 3 years from the adoption of the council decision on the signing and provisional application of the protocol and after the expiry of the protocol in force on 31 december 2011 (i.e. in principle from 1 january 2012 to 31 december 2014).
in writing. i welcome today's vote. the risky and sometimes unconscious behaviour of the financial sector has greatly damaged the global economy. the taxpayers, because of the bailout of the banks, had to bear considerable costs to save the financial sector. today, when the member states are in the process of cleaning up their public finances, it was not only high time, but also quite legitimate, that the financial sector should take its share of the blame! the introduction of a financial transaction tax (ftt) will ensure that the financial sector finally shares equally in the cost of the current crisis, and we have been waiting for this vote for a long time! i also hope that today's vote will help to increase the pressure on ecofin, which will take the final decision next month. i would like to take this opportunity to invite the finance ministers of the 27 member states to decide in favour of the establishment of a ftt. this would be a strong signal in favour of the introduction of such a tax at world level - and to say that james tobin's proposal dates back almost 40 years!
in writing. − the transaction tax is an important signal to the banking sector and the citizens of europe. the financial crisis was largely caused by opaque and excessive financial transactions. the banking sector must not only be regulated and controlled more strictly, but it must also contribute to the refinancing of public budgets, because the latter, and thus the taxpayers' money, have been used as never before to help the banks out of their precarious situation.
in writing. we voted in favour of the podimata report, which proposes the introduction of a financial transaction tax. this is the fourth time in this parliament that we, on behalf of the reform movement, have supported the introduction of such a tax instrument. a decision that has matured since 2008, which has a dual objective: to correct the abuses of financial markets, and to collect financial resources for common european objectives (general budget of the european union and more specific purpose, such as development aid). we do not underestimate the difficulties involved in implementing this tax at the european union level alone. it is also essential that the political decision to introduce it be preceded by precise rules on the tax bases, rates and scope. it is obvious that small consumers and pensioners should not be penalized by any additional tax. more generally, the introduction of a ftt is an opportunity for member states to reduce their national contribution to the union budget by up to 50% and to rethink an outdated financing system. it is not enough for a "vanguard" of member states to take responsibility and lead by example.
in writing. - today, the house has delivered a positive opinion on the proposal for a financial transaction tax, which i very much welcome. this is the kind of tax my party has long advocated. of course we must realize that we have only an advisory role and that it is the council which decides by unanimity. and unfortunately we are hearing that the discussions in the council are not going as smoothly as i would like. this is yet another example of the fact that the unanimity rule makes decision-making in the eu difficult and that it is therefore a difficult task to find fiscal instruments that will help the single market and the eu as a whole to move forward or improve the quality of transactions on financial markets. i hope, however, that the council will take its responsibility, both in this ftt case and in the ccctb - the proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base for which i had the honour of being rapporteur. preferably 27, because only then can both tax instruments have their full effect. if necessary, through enhanced cooperation if there is really no other way.
in writing. i welcome the vote of the european parliament resolution calling on the commission to take action to counter 'unfair competition' by chinese companies, whether in china or in the eu. in this resolution, i and my colleagues stress the difficulties facing european companies in accessing the chinese market and the invasion of the eu by goods produced in conditions which do not comply with european rules. the eu must restore fair trade relations between our continent and the rest of the world if it is to remain competitive on the world stage. the same rules should apply to all. the resolution also calls on the commission to develop a european instrument, if possible as early as 2012, to ensure reciprocity in the area of the opening up of public procurement.
in writing. trade between the eu member states and china is an essential instrument of development for both the eu and china. however, there remains a clear trade imbalance in favour of china. it is therefore imperative to achieve a new partnership based on reciprocity of rules, trade balance and transparency of trade relations. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. consumer protection and human rights, as well as respect for wto rules and intellectual property, are the conditions for fair competition with the union. we must not fight against chinese exports but fight for a balanced partnership with china which will allow a return to growth in europe and will contribute to the advancement of democratic freedoms in china.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the european union has made a great deal of effort for sudan and south sudan. it has heavily funded south sudan's path to independence, supporting the 2005 comprehensive peace agreement. it was either that or it was war, we knew that very well. but at that time the problems were not yet solved. no problem was resolved: not citizenship, not currency, not the question of debt, and, above all, the question of the distribution of oil between the two countries, sudan and south sudan. and it explodes in our faces! but what is really striking us, and what worries me even more, is that over the last year, china has been the world's biggest oil producer, because internationally, it controls the entire oil supply chain, from the production to the refining, and it buys the oil. it seems that the european union, which has done so much, has suddenly disappeared from the scene. it's a little awkward, though. so i welcome resolution 2046, which is a huge step forward and we will be able to follow it, but i have three wishes. the first is that the european parliament, finally, is following up on election missions in a country like this, which we knew was going to be fragile, sending missions, following up and receiving south sudanese here. the second wish is that the european union, which is doing so much, has done so much and is still doing so much, thanks in particular to our special representative, should enjoy excellent visibility in the eyes of all. secondly, i would like the european union's position, which is a balanced position between north and south, to remain, despite the icc and bashir. finally, i would like to see priority given to the humanitarian emergency, particularly in relation to the blue nile and south kordofan. what is happening there is unimaginable, and we have not been able, until now, to gain access to these areas that experience daily tragedies.
in writing. we can no longer ignore it: in addition to an economic, a financial and a climate crisis, we are headed for a resource crisis. the raw materials that we used to have in abundance and cheaply and on which we have organized our consumer society are rapidly becoming scarcer and more expensive. i therefore welcome the report by mr gerbrandy, which sets out the problems very clearly and suggests ways of tackling this crisis. in particular, i fully support the proposals calling for a better functioning internal market to encourage reuse and recycling, for the elimination of environmentally harmful subsidies, for the use of price instruments to make the use of recycled materials more cost-effective in the production of new products, for the establishment of firm agreements and the establishment of measurable parameters for resource efficiency and for an ambitious revision of the ecodesign directive. this is the only way to make europe more efficient in its use of raw materials. that's good for the environment, but it's also vital for the survival of our economy. an economy that urgently needs a lasting adjustment.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many of us are saying this again tonight, but it is necessary: the situation of young europeans is disastrous. the young are paying the unfair price of the crisis. young people are turning their backs more and more on the european project. we cannot accept that we are talking about a generation sacrificed, a generation that has been left unemployed or in precarious contracts. a europe that invests in its young people is a europe that revives growth, that gives hope to a generation - hope in the european model, in the values of solidarity. it is a europe that fights against social exclusion and poverty. so let us work together to make this 'youth guarantee' system viable so that it becomes a reality throughout europe. commissioner, several avenues for financing such a guarantee have been suggested, with the esf, through the social programme for change and innovation, with or through other initiatives which have been mentioned by my colleagues. in conclusion, let us take concrete action, and quickly, and mobilize the necessary funds.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report. in 1966, in herstal, the town where i am mayor, a strike broke out that was to become historic: that of 3,000 women workers at the national arms factory - a strike that lasted eleven weeks. the workers were simply demanding the application of the treaty of rome, which provided for equal pay for men and women for equal work. this is the famous principle of equal pay for equal work. the formula was then used by civil society for the first time. forty-six years later, the debate is still alive. at present, women continue to earn 16 to 17% less than men in the european union, a figure that was recently confirmed by the oecd. this situation is all the more unacceptable since there is a legal framework which expressly incorporates the principle of equal pay, given the increased risks of poverty which this situation creates. strengthening pay transparency, expanding career prospects for women, promoting their participation in decision-making at all levels in the economic sector, and also encouraging companies that take measures to promote equal pay are some of the ways in which the pay gap, which is also found at the time of retirement, could be tackled. these are the themes which i have emphasized in my amendments and which i am pleased to see in the report. i hope that with this report and the initiatives that the commission will take to strengthen the legislative framework - particularly as regards the importance of collective bargaining and the system of sanctions - it will no longer be necessary to resort to social confrontations, as in 1966 in herstal, to advance this cause in europe.
written declaration no 0004/2012, tabled by mary honeyball, véronique de keyser, seán kelly, bill newton dunn and marie-christine vergiat, on the continuation and strengthening of support for vaccination campaigns in developing countries, has received the signatures of the majority of members of parliament and will therefore, in accordance with rule 123 (3) and (4), be circulated to the addressees and published in the minutes of this sitting with the names of the signatories.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
this closes the voting.
that's right.
in writing. − i am very pleased that today, with a large majority, we are calling on all policy-makers who are going to the european football championship in ukraine to denounce the political situation on the spot. we ask them to publicly express their concern about the political situation in ukraine and to take the opportunity to visit political prisoners where possible. the trial of yulia tymoshenko has been postponed again until the end of june, after the conclusion of the european football championship in ukraine and poland. the ukrainian government wants to keep the trial out of the international press spotlight. but it's accomplishing the exact opposite of what it's intended to. i realize you're pretty good at keeping sports and politics separate, but in this case, we can't just look the other way. on june 13th, the dutch play the germans in kharkiv. the stadium in kharkiv is two kilometers from the prison where yulia tymoshenko is being held. then you can't just pretend to have a bloody nose as a politician and even as a player.
in writing. i welcome the vote on the resolution on the political situation in ukraine. ukraine is of paramount importance to the eu. it is essential that the european parliament encourages the eu's immediate neighbours to integrate the eu acquis in the field of human rights, freedom of the press and democracy. it is therefore the duty of parliament to express concern and condemn the abuses that are taking place in ukraine at the moment, particularly with regard to the situation of yulia tymoshenko. i therefore call for a necessary reform of the legal and judicial systems of ukraine, so that they can operate independently of any political influence. it is essential that anyone detained for political reasons be released immediately. in addition, they must receive adequate medical assistance to ensure their health. with regard to the forthcoming european football championship, i hereby invite all officials wishing to attend a match in ukraine to do so in private and to denounce, as far as possible, the political situation in the country.
in writing. i warmly welcome the resolution adopted by the european parliament, which strongly condemns all discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity and strongly deplores the fact that the fundamental rights of lgbt people are not always fully recognised in the european union. i therefore call on the member states and the commission to condemn strongly homophobic hate speech or incitement to hatred and violence. i call on the commission, through this resolution, to ensure that the annual report on the application of the charter of fundamental rights includes a strategy to strengthen the protection of fundamental rights in the union, including comprehensive and comprehensive information on the impact of homophobia in the member states and proposals for solutions and measures to eliminate it.
in writing. the right to be different is a fundamental expression of human rights. the sexual difference between consenting adults, the love between two men or two women or between a man and a woman, is definitely a part of the reserved intimacy to which every human being has a sacred right. european countries, whether or not they are members of the european union, must ensure that lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people are protected from hate speech and homophobic violence, and guarantee same-sex partners the same respect as the rest of society. i condemn any discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity and i strongly deplore that the fundamental rights of lgbt people are not always fully recognised in the european union. the member states of the european union should be exemplary in the application and protection of fundamental rights in europe. i am also very concerned about certain laws or decisions that are used to arrest or fine heterosexual citizens, who express support, tolerance or acceptance of lgbt people, and that these laws legitimize homophobia and sometimes violence.
in writing. on 22 april, ihsane jarfi, a 32-year-old man, was beaten to death in a car by four men as he left a gay bar in the city of liège. a tragic sign of a society where violence and intolerance are commonplace, ishane jarfi is the victim of the first homophobic murder in belgium. that is the significance of our vote this afternoon by a very large majority. it is clear that homophobia, an intolerable discrimination which is on the increase, must be condemned. it should be remembered that homosexuality is above all a right to live like "everyone else", that it is not a simple orientation of sexual life choice, that it is a sexual identity in its own right. some religious leaders need to be reminded that the priority is to protect the right of each person to be who they are, not to return homosexuality to the underground. we need to rethink our education systems, including education in respect, tolerance and knowledge of others. it is crucial to introduce lessons on "common values, rights and duties" in school curricula, and this from an early age, if the fight against homophobia is to be successful in the future.
in writing. - it is remarkable that this resolution does not mention the problem of violence against homosexuals which is emerging in many european countries these days. that violence is mostly the work of muslim youths, and so it's obviously not politically correct to denounce and accuse that? that is one reason for abstaining on this resolution, but there are others. we are going to go very far in this respect in abandoning the principle of subsidiarity. i think it is best for peoples and member states to decide for themselves whether or not they want to introduce same-sex marriage and whether or not they want to recognise such marriages in other member states. it is not a question of discrimination. so for the love of god, stop with this european meddling and this pollution of concepts.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report. the initiative 'a resource-efficient europe' is one of the seven flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to foster smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. in addition, this flagship initiative aims to establish a policy framework to support the transition to a resource-efficient and low-carbon economy, which will help: boost economic performance while using fewer resources; seek and create new opportunities for economic growth; to step up innovation and enhance the union's competitiveness; to ensure security of supply of essential resources; to combat climate change and to limit the impact of resource use on the environment.
in writing. − the idea that we not only need to be resource-conscious, but also that we need to promote renewable energy in particular, seems to be supported by almost all political parties. however, the implementation in the various countries is far from this 'wish'. the different majorities in european governments are all facing the same challenge: to promote growth, to protect the environment and not to weaken their own country by the measures they take; environmental dumping is becoming the new challenge, which is even more formidable at the global level than at the eu level. this is reason enough to stop dealing with these issues with declarations of intent in europe and to take clear decisions.
in writing. the economic crisis currently affecting the european union shows that a change in our growth model is necessary. our industries are increasingly confronted with rising commodity prices. a transition to a resource efficient economy is becoming inevitable and necessary. to improve the use of their resources, member states must remove any obstacles to the proper functioning of the european waste recycling and reuse market. promoting research and technological innovation in areas such as waste collection and sorting could indeed be a way of maximising our resources. gradually phasing out certain inefficient subsidies and replacing them with smart environmental taxation will help boost the eu's competitiveness. resource efficiency action should be applied mainly in three key areas: food, housing and mobility. however, the parliament's ambition is to integrate the concept of resource efficiency into all other eu policies.
in writing. by adopting the gerbrandy report on better use of natural resources this afternoon, the european parliament has sent a clear message: the scarcity of resources is a reality, not a fatality! the causes of this are as follows: the intensive use of resources in agricultural policy, fisheries policy and industrial policy, as well as speculation in commodity markets and the rapid growth in world consumption. a figure sums up the situation well: the real price of basic commodities has increased by 147% since the beginning of the century. the fight against waste must therefore be one of the union's objectives in the years ahead, particularly in the key areas of food, housing and mobility. as rapporteur in 2005 on legislation on the eco-design of energy-using products, i know how much action upstream is the best way to protect our resources. another key to success is innovation. how can we justify, for example, that the standstill of technological products contributes to 1% of global energy expenditure? to encourage and create the conditions for industry to participate more and better in the conservation of resources.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution which calls on member states to introduce national plans for young people and urges them to take practical and concrete measures at national level to ensure that young people have decent employment or are in education or training again within four months of leaving school. i believe that there is an urgent need for economic and labour market strategies and policies to create more and better jobs for young people, thus avoiding the trap of precariousness for young people in a succession of temporary jobs and unpaid traineeships which lead to no increase in wages, no improvement in working conditions, and no more stable forms of employment.
in writing. in the european union, nearly 5.5 million young people are unemployed. more than one in five people under 25 are unable to find a job. the unemployment rate among young people is 21%, and the situation is not improving. concrete action is therefore needed to tackle the problem of youth unemployment. the member states must act on the drop-out rate of young people and promote the development of their skills in the light of the needs of our enterprises. it is indeed becoming urgent to make the labour market more accessible to young people so that they can access their first job quickly. investing in a young people guarantee is one way to do this. but first, we must use the funds already committed wisely and put them to good use. of the total of €347 billion for the period 2007-2013, €82 billion from the european structural funds had not yet been allocated in january this year. it is imperative that these funds be used to train young people so that the european union can be a beacon of hope and a future for them.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report! the latest studies show that, across the european union, women receive on average 16.4% less than men and that the pay gap between women and men varies from 4.4 to 27.6% depending on the member state. and it is clear that despite the huge arsenal of legislation in place for almost 40 years and the actions and resources being used to try to reduce the gap, progress remains extremely slow (the disparity at union level was 17.7% in 2006, 17.6% in 2007, 17.4% in 2008, 16.9% in 2009 and 16.4% in 2010). in the bauer report voted on today, parliament calls on the member states to implement and apply directive 2006/54/ec in a consistent manner and to encourage the private and public sectors to play a more active role in closing the gender pay gap and to allow partners to negotiate gender equality plans at company, national and european level.
in writing. equal pay for men and women for equal work is still to be achieved. this is a key objective of gender equality in the general sense, but it can only be achieved if all member states make every effort to achieve it. it is essential that the commission can strengthen existing legislation with appropriate sanctions against those who fail to do so. women in the union currently earn 16.4% less than men. this gap is unacceptable and cannot continue to widen.
in writing. - first of all, the principle: we are naturally in favour of equal pay for equal work for men and women. and that women, given their actual role in child rearing, deserve extra social protection is equally self-evident to me. that's it. i would like to stress that the principle of subsidiarity must also be respected in the field of labour law and social security, and we must not shift more and more powers to the european union. this report is again full of proposals which do not add any substance but cost a handful of taxpayers' money. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european union. so i abstained from the vote.
author. - mr president, i will say, like the honourable member who preceded me, that my group is a little surprised, not because venezuela is the subject of an emergency resolution - we have had many on venezuela - but because it concerns the fact that venezuela is considering withdrawing from this inter-american commission on human rights. so there are a lot of emergencies in the world, and that puzzles us a little, especially since the decision whether to be on this committee or not is still up to the nations. i would remind you that neither the united states nor canada wanted to be part of this inter-american commission on human rights, and i do not think that this has caused any uproar in this house. now, what does venezuela have against this commission? for having a political bias, for having questioned him more in the last few months than she had done before, in thirty years, when the situation, according to venezuela, has not deteriorated. our position is very clear. we support the inter-american commission on human rights, we want to strengthen it, and my group is extremely attentive to what is happening in venezuela. but this, given all that is going on in the world today, really seems to us to be a drift - if i may put it this way - from our session on human rights on thursday afternoon.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, may i ask mrs weber whether venezuela has withdrawn from the un human rights council in geneva or whether, on the contrary, it has complied with most of the injunctions of that council, when it periodically assesses the human rights situation? mrs weber, you have indicated that whenever someone wishes to leave international human rights bodies, this automatically gives rise to an emergency resolution. can i ask you to recall what was venezuela's position at the un human rights security council in geneva, during the periodic assessment of the human rights situation, and what action it took on the remarks made to it?
author. - mr president, about ten days ago, when i was watching euronews, i saw a wonderful programme about azerbaijan, about the eurovision song contest. not a word about human rights! we just showed the crystal palace. i thought it was an ad, but it wasn't a euronews show. that is why this resolution is extremely important today. i am not at all in favour of a boycott of eurovision - that would be very difficult, by the way - but we had the same debate among ourselves about the olympic games in china. and we thought this was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, because 600 million people are going to be watching this show on saturday. this is a unique opportunity to show that, besides gas, besides oil, besides money, there is another aspect in azerbaijan which is extremely problematic - to say the least - namely human rights. another thing: thousands of apartment and house owners were evicted for the construction of the eurovision buildings, without much compensation. i've had enough of this! and that is why i am particularly sensitive to the fact that our friends in the epp group have finally supported this resolution. it is absolutely essential. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i do not want to "unveil the crown", as we say, but i can tell you, mr president, that the human rights issue has not been ignored in the groups. there was, of course, realpolitik, with the energy context, our crisis, what azerbaijan could represent in terms of pipelines that would allow us to bypass russia, etc. you know the problem as well as i do. then there is the argument that if we only made agreements with countries that were genuinely democratic, we might be a little bit out of business. but i can tell you that the issue of human rights has not only been raised, but it remains a real obsession for us. and i believe that one day we will have to combine - and that is really our ambition here in the european parliament - the question of trade with that of democracy. and it's a balancing act every time.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, good evening, a free trade agreement - we all agree - can be a boon to the economy and also to the well-being of the people on both sides of the agreement. but there can also be serious shadow aspects, and there can be sectors, also in europe, commissioner, which suffer heavily from such agreements. that was the case and is the case today with the free trade agreement we concluded with south korea. the agreement is having a serious impact on the european automobile industry. the fact that european car manufacturers cannot sell their cars in south korea is not due to a lack of innovation or a lack of competitiveness. on the contrary, it has everything to do with the persistence of non-tariff barriers to trade in south korea, with a manifest lack of a level playing field. the deterrent through the so-called safe guard clauses does not seem to be working in this case either. we cannot afford a repetition of this, a repetition of a similar scenario in the case of japan. mr lange has made it very clear - and i agree with him 100% - that the japanese, like the south koreans, are extremely adept at creating, maintaining and perpetuating such non-tariff rules. in particular, technical standardization, where they are on a very different wavelength and much less voluntarist than we in the european union, is crucial. there are also other non-tariff barriers, for example of a fiscal nature, of an environmental nature, and so on. we must make that very clear in the context of the scope before we start negotiations. i hope you're willing to admit that. i think we can say that the european car industry must not again be the victim of a global deal - in this case with tokyo - a deal which is of course a give and take. we are faced today in europe with a real overcapacity in the automobile industry, with possible additional restructuring and additional problems which will arise as a result of this unbalanced deal with japan and which we can of course miss today. in short, commissioner, a future fta with japan can only be concluded if we have tough safeguards, tough safeguard clauses, and if there is a level playing field in the industrial sectors, particularly in the automotive sector. this is also stated in the cars 21 report, which the commission agreed with the car manufacturers very recently last week. i suggest we implement this agreement meticulously in that respect.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 13 june 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for debate on the commission's statement on public consultations and their availability in all the union's languages.
it is only natural and obvious, mr president, that the documents for public consultation should be available in all the official languages of the european union. it should not be necessary to have the commission make a statement on this and to have a debate on it here in parliament, but commissioner de gucht now says that the commission does not have sufficient resources to translate all the relevant documents into all the official languages. i am afraid that this is a euphemism, because the necessary documents are usually only available in one language. this is not an acceptable situation, all the more so because the commission should use the instrument of public consultation to fine-tune the regulatory process and at the same time to narrow the gap between citizens and the official europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the subject. the rule should therefore be that all public documents of the european union should be available in all the official languages, and budgetary arguments are not acceptable in my view. if we look at the budget of the european union, we see that there are more than enough items to save and cut. and the cost of relevant key documents, such as those for public consultations, represents only a fraction of what could be saved on other budget lines.
the motions for resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure will be announced at a later date. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 14 june 2012 at 12 noon.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues (rule 150).
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, next thursday – in two days’ time – we will celebrate schengen’s 27th birthday. so let me thank the minister very much for the gift. it is a shame that we are having this debate today. in fact it is a disgrace. certainly it is a disgrace, mr minister when, a few minutes before starting this debate, you publish a press statement in danish – and we have some danish members who will be able to read that – saying that this agreement is good for europe and that it has been the outcome of a very deep dialogue with the eu commission and with the eu parliament. that is what it says in the statement released by your services this morning, just a few minutes ago. well, mr minister, we are no longer living in the middle ages. in the middle ages there was a dialogue between the king and the parliament, but today we live in the 21st century. it is not based on dialogue but on codecision in a modern society and in a modern parliament. so we do not need your dialogue. what we need is for you to recognise the powers of the european parliament. in fact, colleagues, this dispute is not about the power of the european parliament. it is, in fact, a question of an attempt by the council to renationalise schengen by doing two things: first of all changing the legal basis so that this parliament lies outside the decision-making process and secondly – and more importantly – by clearly stating that implementation of the new acquis will be delegated to the council and not to the commission. so this is not an attack against parliament but, more importantly, but an attack against the commission, against the communitarian method, and against the fact that schengen is a full part of european union policies. what is an even bigger scandal is that the united kingdom, which is not in schengen and has an opt-out, will be treated better than parliament. under article 70, the uk will continue to be present at the negotiations –without having a say, apparently, but it will be present – but this parliament will not. so we have to take clear action today. firstly, i think we need to go to court. secondly, why is it necessary to pay for all this? if they want to renationalise, let them renationalise, for example, and then pay for the schengen acquis themselves. instead it is the european union which has to do it. thirdly, minister, why are we continuing with you on justice and home affairs? why continue with the dublin ii report on asylum? we have a trialogue on 19 june. why is it necessary to go on with it? why continue with the díaz de mera report on the visa safeguard clause? we have two trialogues in the next two weeks. why are we continuing with this? why are we continuing with the weber report on the reintroduction of border controls if we have no say on the coelho report? why should we continue in any way with you, the danish presidency? why are we not suspending all talks on justice and home affairs until the new presidency is in place? (applause)
in writing. the council's decision to exclude the european parliament from the reform of the schengen agreement opens the way to a violation of the fundamental rights of european citizens. the fact that parliament is not consulted on the schengen evaluation mechanisms means that it is not given democratic control over decisions which may even lead to the temporary reintroduction of passport controls. and this is unacceptable. the council should review its decision because it infringes the principles and fundamental freedoms of the european union, in particular the free movement of persons. i therefore fully support the proposals which have been put forward to give parliament a strong response to this. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the council's position is not compromised. in the difficult times the eu is now going through, what is needed is more solidarity and more trust, a european approach and european solutions. the european union must not be allowed to undermine the european institutions, to put national interests first and to give priority to the wishes of the large member states.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am grateful for this opportunity to participate in this debate on the two proposals so fluently expressed by the rapporteurs, which are intended to strengthen economic governance of the euro area. the purpose of the discussion this morning and, of course, of the vote tomorrow, is to establish parliament’s position in view of upcoming trialogues. i would like to thank in particular ms ferreira and mr gauzès for their dedicated work; we have talked a number of times about their work on these issues and their contribution to establishing parliament’s positions on the text put forward by the commission. the council is keenly awaiting the outcome of your deliberations and looks forward to a constructive trialogue. you will be aware that the danish presidency steered discussions in the council to a rapid conclusion, so that already by 21 february we were able to adopt a general approach in council on both these proposals. the general approach of the council is to close the original proposals of the commission which we believe to be an important contribution to ensuring sound and sustainable public finance in the euro area and thereby also to growth and employment, with those two things being two sides of the same coin. the proposed regulation on the strengthening of economic and budgetary surveillance of member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability will ensure that surveillance of those member states under a financial assistance programme or, of course, facing threats of financial instability, is robust, follows clear procedures and is embedded in eu law. the proposed regulation on common provisions for monitoring and assessing draft budgetary plans and ensuring the correction of excessive deficits of the member states in the euro area will require these countries to present their draft budgetary plans, which will enable the commission to assess whether the budgetary plans are in accordance with budgetary objectives. the regulation also proposes closer monitoring and reporting requirements for euro area countries in an excessive deficit procedure. i should add that i remain confident that we will reach an agreement which is acceptable to the council and parliament in the end. the two proposals will make an important contribution to further strengthening of the economic governance framework within the euro area and we are ready to start a trialogue as soon as parliament is ready. however, i would like to recall, and i should of course do that very briefly, the context in which we are discussing these two proposals. we are all only too well aware of the persistent financial and economic crisis which continues to impact across europe, and also beyond european borders, despite the reins applied and measures taken after 2010. but having said that, i still think it is important to realise that much has been achieved. we have strengthened economic governance and policy coordination within the framework of the european semester. the 'six-pack' – and i consider this a major achievement by the council and parliament, with very close cooperation on very difficult files – has strengthened the rules of the stability and growth pact and created a new macroeconomic imbalances procedure. we have set up rescue mechanisms such as the efsm, the efs and the esm, and used these facilities to support vulnerable member states. we have strengthened financial supervision through a european systemic risk board and strengthened the role of the european supervisory authorities. as an absolutely crucial part of the eu crisis management strategy, the council and parliament are taking major steps on stronger financial regulations. we have agreed, or are in the process of agreeing, on a number of financial regulation files, including new capital requirements of banks, rules on markets for financial derivatives, rules on short selling and credit default swaps, hedge funds and credit rating agencies. further proposals which will contribute to better regulation of the financial markets are in the pipeline, such as the proposal for an eu framework for bank recovery and resolutions. finally, and hand in hand with our efforts on stronger economic governance and financial regulation, we are working on promoting stronger growth and job creation, with this being done through reforms, initiatives at both national level and european level. however, it is clear that further work is required. the current economic problems have revealed the need for an ever closer policy coordination and decisive action from the council and parliament. mr president, it is against this background that honourable members will be discussing today the 'two-pack' proposals which, although only a part of the overall picture, will nevertheless play a key role in the overall strengthening of the coordination of economic policies. much is at stake, and i therefore have strong hopes that, following your debate today and your vote tomorrow, we can make rapid progress towards reaching an overall agreement. i can assure you of the danish presidency’s commitment to this dossier. i also know that, as we are almost at the end of our presidency term, the incoming cyprus presidency is equally determined to adopt these proposals as quickly as possible. i look forward very much to your discussion and thank you for your attention.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, let me first of all thank the rapporteurs, mr gauzès and ms ferreira, for their very important work and the presidency and minister margrethe vestager for their excellent and very effective cooperation on these important files. i also want to thank the committee on economic and monetary affairs for a very substantive and, may i say, constructive economic dialogue yesterday evening in which we discussed the european semester as well as our strategy for sustainable growth and job creation, and also discussed issues like the recent decision of the euro area to provide a credit line for the restructuring of the spanish banking sector. we will continue this discussion tomorrow, both in the morning and afternoon, so today we will focus on the two-pack, which is a very important discussion and decision indeed. let me say a few words about the context of this debate. at the summit later this month – as president barroso will explain in more detail tomorrow – the heads of state or government will discuss the next phase of deepening the economic union. they will discuss possibilities such as a growth compact, a financial union and a fiscal union. so we are, yet again, witnessing a potentially defining moment for europe’s deeper integration. and once again, this commission and this parliament have a special and joint responsibility – a unique responsibility – to prove that the community method can be and will be at the centre of the next chapter in the making of europe. i have little doubt that the treaty on stability, coordination and governance will be ratified by at least 12 euro area member states and will thus enter into force. the legislation which is the subject of our debate today has a profound significance in relation to that treaty. that is why it is so important. the first draft regulation, which is the subject of mr gauzès’s report, aims at providing more robust and coherent ways of dealing with vulnerable member states and member states under a programme, including enhanced economic and budgetary surveillance. i fully agree with mr gauzès that prevention is always much better than correction and this regulation was needed in the past two and a half years, even before that. the second draft regulation, which is dealt with in ms ferriera’s report, aims at establishing a common timeline and common rules to allow for real active prior or ex-ante monitoring and assessment of the national budgets of euro area member states. this regulation was needed during the past 12 years because, once again, prevention is always better than correction, as we have learned the hard way. these proposals, submitted to you on 23 november by the commission, decisively informed and shaped the subsequent discussions that led to the new fiscal compact treaty. moreover, the authors of the new treaty explicitly required that certain provisions of the treaty should be achieved through the eu’s normal secondary legislation. they welcomed these specific legislative proposals and clearly saw them as an essential supplement to the treaty itself. and, of course, the authors of the treaty set out the goal that all provisions of the treaty should be incorporated into the legal framework of the eu by 2018 at the latest. so the adoption of this legislation is a vital first step in ensuring that the articulation between the fiscal compact treaty and the eu treaties is done correctly and will set a positive precedent for the future. this means that, as co-legislator, you have a choice: either to move forward in a timely way or to delay and create a legal grey area. if the treaty enters into force before this two-pack, we will be confronted with very difficult legal challenges. what concerns me most is the political signal that such a scenario would send: no legal acrobatics would enable us to hide the fact that we had failed to live up to our political responsibilities, because member states would be subject to intergovernmental treaty obligations which had not been translated into eu secondary legislation as planned. frankly, this would be very bad for the credibility of both the eu treaty and the community method. we have to acknowledge that, in this respect, the council has moved quickly. it agreed its mandate to negotiate on these texts within weeks of the signature of the treaty in february. as a former member of this house, i understand and deeply respect the principles of democratic scrutiny, which means that this house cannot always be as agile as the council. but i think – and i say this with respect – that after almost seven months for discussion, this should now be the moment to move forward from discussion to negotiation and then to decision. the council’s negotiating mandate will surely provide us with challenges in the negotiations. i have studied mr gauzès’s and ms ferreira’s reports. it is already clear that the mandate that you will give to the economic affairs committee will also provide us with some challenges. however, my team and i are ready to roll up our sleeves, get down to serious work with this house and the council, and get this legislation enacted so that we can move forward. it is in our joint interest not to be institutionally overtaken by yet another intergovernmental agreement. (applause)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment, i should like to point out first of all that, despite my opposition to the philosophy of economic governance and austerity aimed at drastically reducing the deficits and debts of the member states, my group and i have not followed the procedure of directly rejecting these texts. we took the opportunity and thought that the parliamentary input would improve the text. we have been able, for example, in this committee which is sensitive to solidarity, to introduce the clause on respect for collective agreements, to reject the macroeconomic conditionality for access to the structural funds, to give a greater role to parliament, to give greater importance to the role of national budgets in achieving the objectives of the 2020 strategy for growth and employment. these points were to some extent taken up by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, but in general, and particularly for those matters which were not within the committee's competence, and despite all the efforts of our rapporteur, elisa ferreira, whom i commend, i must tell you that i am not satisfied. this package strengthens economic surveillance, which my group had already opposed when it voted for the six-pack. this procedure is rigid and applies gross and uniform revenue to the member states, irrespective of the structure of their debt and its origin. after the meetings this weekend to release aid to spain, we cannot say that we need the same recipes for everyone. the ferreira report makes good progress towards new approaches to governance, but even with the amendment proposed by our rapporteur, i am still concerned that the expenditure which is useful for growth and employment will be sacrificed in an attempt to satisfy the markets. in the current context in the council - where growth through recovery and investment is finally being discussed again, alongside budgetary austerity - it will not help to calm down the markets and ensure growth to make the processes out of step with a new political situation a legal matter.
it is true that, despite the dozens of measures taken in recent years, emu is still lagging behind. monetary integration is complete, but the economic infrastructure, including the banking system and fiscal union, is still too fragmented. this week, however, we can take another step in the right direction with the adoption of the two-pack, the proposals of which have just been explained by the rapporteurs gauzès and ferreira. we have worked very hard with the ppe, mr president, to ensure that two reports are actually on the table here. i hope that this time all the groups will take their responsibility. in the ferrera report we have ensured that the essence of the commission proposal is preserved, that the link between financial stability and growth and jobs is made - a one-to-one story - that national parliaments are better respected and that the independence of the budgetary institutions of the member states is guaranteed. we have also incorporated a number of key issues from the budgetary treaty into this piece of community legislation, in particular those on the binding numerical budgetary rules and an automatic correction mechanism in national law and also the concept of economic partnership programmes for countries in an excessive deficit procedure. what we have not accepted and will not accept is an attempt to weaken the growth and stability pact. we cannot support this because we do not believe that we can solve the debt problem by creating more debt, and we do not want to be complicit in choices that burden the next generation and undermine the urgently needed restoration of confidence in the short term. we need that confidence, for example, for further budgetary integration, which we in the ppe are also open to. open to a thorough debate on forms of joint debt issuance such as eurobonds or a redemption fund. but we are dealing with such a large amount of money and such a deep reintegration that we have to make sure that the right conditions and the right timing are in place. we cannot therefore simply, as it were, smuggle a whole new chapter on this subject into the articles of this regulation. we do support the review clause, which provides the necessary flexibility and which we have amended in the committee on economic and monetary affairs precisely for this purpose. finally, as regards economic growth, we too want to raise the necessary funds. but to create in this legislative text, in a hurry, a fund the size of the entire current annual budget of the european union, without even saying where the funds come from, is unbelievable. the ppe group will remain consistent and will vote tomorrow in the same way as it did earlier in the committee on economic affairs.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the aim of the ‘two-pack’ is to transpose the fiscal treaty into secondary law, but instead of reinforcing the logic of the treaty the ‘two-pack’ reports water it down. first there is the gauzès report. after the negotiating process, i am sorry to find only a watered-down version of the ‘golden rule’ that puts the essence of the fiscal treaty on a slippery slope. i am happy that another suggestion by mr gauzès was retained. he proposes that a member state at risk of default or suspension of payments should be placed under legal protection. unfortunately he did not go one step further by adding that if a member state is unwilling to surrender its sovereignty in this way it should be given the option of leaving the eurozone. i was criticised as being irresponsible for tabling an amendment in this sense, but i believe it is the other way round: it is irresponsible not to consider the possibility of a country leaving the eurozone. mr president, you can choose to ignore reality but reality will not ignore you. following the greek elections this weekend the facts will come to haunt us all. the report by ms ferreira goes far beyond the aim of the ‘two-pack’. she confuses eu legislation with the manifesto of her socialist party. the rapporteur ties budgetary surveillance to a range of other issues such as eurobonds, a european redemption fund, a european debt authority, a financial transaction tax and a common consolidated corporate tax base. this is a christmas tree out of season. during negotiations mr gauzès ceded too much to the left, more than many members of the ppe regarded desirable. in voting, the left mainly abstained regardless. ms ferreira’s report only achieved a small majority. in fact more members voted against or abstained than voted in favour. parliament has produced a wish-list about which it is itself divided. it will not stand in council and rightly so. the ecr will abstain on gauzès and vote against ferreira.
"blue card" question. what is it? president. - i have a question for mr madlener. he also spoke about keeping to agreements, including the 3% agreement. now his own party in the dutch coalition had the chance to stick to these agreements, but his party leader decided to walk away and leave prime minister rutte with the trouble and the problems. now i wonder: does he not set a bad example by accusing others of running away and not keeping their appointments? shouldn't his party leader be the first to do so?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, these two texts are necessary. they provide a legal basis for work which the commission is already carrying out when it is part of the troika in the countries which are, as we say, 'under programme' or when it interacts with the member states in the context of their budgetary procedure. i think it is better to operate within a legal framework than outside it, and in that sense these are two necessary texts. secondly, i must stress that the rapporteurs have really worked in a spirit of unity and i hope that this will be demonstrated by a massive vote tomorrow. i should now like to reply, perhaps in particular, to marianne thyssen. yes, it is true that we need sustainable public finances. we cannot build a future on deficits and debt. it's very clear. this must be unambiguous. that's what we said in the six-pack, that's what we say in the two-pack, but it can't be the alpha and omega of politics. in other words, we also need, in addition to, not in place of, of course, a form of debt mutualisation that allows us to have interest rates that make debt sustainable. we also need, and this is even more important, fiscal convergence to ensure that we not only have sustainable expenditure but that we have revenue that is capable of financing that expenditure. finally, we must invest, invest and invest again to enable our economy to be redeployed. that is what we wanted to introduce in the two-pack. of course, paris was not built in a day, but nevertheless, we cannot continue to say that discipline is for now and everything else will follow later. we must now put in place the rules of budgetary discipline, and we have been doing so for a year now. we must start today to put in place a debt pooling. we must start today to implement fiscal convergence. yesterday was the day we should have started investing in our future. so we cannot say yes to discipline all the time and everything else will follow. we are not trying to sneak this in! these measures have been needed for two years and we have not yet started to implement them. so i'd like to get started. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i would like to remind you that today the net contributor countries - and in this case my country is one of them - "borrow" money, not "give" it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. their interest rates are negative. the advantage for germany today is estimated by the bremer landesbank to be between 45 and 65 billion euros. these are immediate benefits, whereas the cost to germany would only become a cost if some of the loans we make were not repaid. so stop saying that we are bleeding ourselves to death for all these people from southern europe. at the moment, it is an operation which is profitable for the net contributor countries.
in writing. despite the significant progress achieved by the socialists as a result of the parliamentary work in the employment and economic affairs committees (a greater emphasis on the achievement of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, a roadmap for the implementation of eurobonds, or the necessary respect for social dialogue and collective agreements), this text remains contrary to our wish for a europe of solidarity. we want to send a strong signal and we will vote no if the right wing does not humanize its approach.
in writing. the affirmative vote was a foregone conclusion. the commission's proposal for new means upstream is fully in line with the joint declaration on payment appropriations adopted in november 2011. it was mentioned that the council and the european parliament would decide on any draft amending budget as soon as possible in order to avoid any shortfall in payment appropriations.
in writing. the essence of europe must be solidarity. it was appropriate to accept the request from italy for assistance from the fund following the floods that affected the regions of liguria and tuscany in october 2011. the disaster caused severe damage to homes, businesses and farms, and disrupted major transport networks and basic public infrastructure. the total direct damage caused by the floods is estimated at more than 700 million euros. the floods have been classified as a natural disaster and therefore fall within the scope of the solidarity fund.
in writing. in recent years, latin america has enjoyed one of the highest growth rates. however, it is necessary to maintain development aid funds in this region. one in three people still live below the poverty line. some latin american countries are among the most unequal in economic and social terms, with the highest levels of violence and high crime rates. to combat poverty, cooperation must be refocused on the areas where it is most useful. and in view of the economic and social heterogeneity of the countries in the region, differentiated cooperation must be maintained. development aid can only be reduced gradually so that these countries strengthen their rule of law and further reduce the risks of extreme poverty. latin america shares certain values with the european union. the two regions have common interests and so it is together that we must meet the current challenges facing our societies, which are more interdependent than ever.
in writing. the commission has also been active in the development of the new partnership with latin america, with a view to promoting the development of the region. aid to middle-income countries is being gradually reduced and the criteria for aid are becoming more objective. the degree of inequality will also be taken into account. the gini coefficient will also be taken into account. the gdp is indeed an inadequate measure. the ep rightly calls for greater social cohesion, redistribution of resources through sound fiscal policies and the autonomy of parliaments, regional authorities and civil society to design development strategies. it is also good that the civil society is being asked to play a strong role in the fight against inequality. there is also the importance of monitoring the use of financial resources. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels. finally, our suggestions to address impunity and to support the work of the inter-american system of human rights politically and financially, so that violence against women can be addressed, were adopted.
in writing. my support for this text is obvious. indeed, it seems to me that we have a real role to play in respecting international commitments on human rights, food security and environmental sustainability. the european union is working to develop relations and build partnerships with third countries, supporting the sustainable economic, social and environmental development of developing countries with the key aim of eradicating poverty. the european union's policies play a fundamental role in the achievement of the millennium development goals.
in writing. − following on from the european year of volunteering (2011), this own-initiative report is another step towards promoting volunteering at european level. the activities of voluntary organisations provide essential support for the social, intergenerational and environmental needs of today's society. it is therefore an active support for society, which it is essential to promote. voluntary organisations, especially those wishing to operate across borders, face major challenges today, including administrative ones. i therefore welcome the fact that this owninitiative report calls for simplification of administrative procedures and tax relief for organisations involved in voluntary activities. the creation of a centralised eu portal for volunteering with a dedicated section on cross-border activities and a european statute for these associations will also facilitate and promote cross-border work by voluntary organisations.
in writing. encouraging and recognising volunteering as essential for the training of our young people is the message of the scurria report, which was voted on this afternoon by the european parliament. unlike paid traineeships and work experience, voluntary work often remains virtually unknown given the heavy legal constraints faced by professionals in the sector. volunteering is a unique opportunity for our young people, who are studying or starting their professional careers, and it is not well supervised, often stigmatised or neglected. parliament calls in particular for the development of skills linked to volunteering, for its better integration into the study programme via the european credit system 'ects' and for its better public funding. to recognize volunteering as a real passport to future employment.
in writing. we live in a time of crisis and even though we should be more united than ever, individualism prevails. we have just spent a whole year promoting volunteering because there is no greater act than that. it remains essential to continue to draw a clear and unambiguous distinction between the value of voluntary work and for-profit activities. it is also necessary to emphasise the role of volunteering in promoting, in the union and elsewhere, the principles of european identity and the common values of solidarity and social cohesion. i therefore wholeheartedly support this resolution.
in writing. today, the dependence on information infrastructures has increased exponentially. the internet and digital systems are boosting our productivity, encouraging innovation, stimulating growth and quality jobs. but alongside these innovative technologies, cyberattacks are becoming more frequent and increasing the vulnerability of our computer networks. these attacks are particularly serious when they affect institutional infrastructures or those of our companies. the fight against this scourge, which crosses our borders, can only be achieved through a strengthening and better coordination of national measures. developing an effective european cybersecurity strategy is essential to ensure secure information sharing within the european union. however, the eu is not alone in being subject to these attacks, and it is therefore important to develop a globally coordinated strategy to combat future threats.
in writing. i voted in favour of my colleague, mr kalfin's text, because it is a step in the right direction. the internet has become one of the cornerstones of the world. but like any stone, some facets could become harmful and a source of danger for businesses as well as individuals. of course, cyber-attacks should be prevented. no one wants to have intruders visiting their home or business. the european texts must also be updated as quickly as technology, and this can only be achieved with a high degree of cooperation between the various member states.
in writing. the european union already imports more than 60% of its gas and more than 80% of its oil. and as the edith herczog report points out, this dependence of the union on energy imports is likely to increase over the next ten years. faced with this reality, europe needs to develop a strategy of cooperation across eu borders to secure its energy supply. if the union as a whole, which is a major energy buyer, defends a common position on this matter, it will be able to assert its interests in its negotiations with the neighbouring countries. to strengthen their geopolitical independence and energy security, member states must promote the existence of a genuine internal energy market, capable of withstanding external pressures. energy security also requires diversification of suppliers. to diversify its energy sources, the eu must ensure the continuity of the infrastructure construction defined in its energy strategy 2020 . it will thus gradually benefit from more strategic energy cooperation with third countries, notably through the nabucco project and the africa-eu energy partnership.
the agenda calls for the debate on the recommendation by mr josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the recommendation on the european union special representative for human rights (2012/2088(ini)) (a7-0174/2012).
as mrs sinclaire's question was not a question directed at mr howitt, but rather a statement, mr dartmouth, i ask you to answer mr tavares in particular.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the annual report on human rights. i would also like to remind you that there will be no request for speeches in this debate.
mr president, there will be an eu special representative for human rights, another new post with its own staff, its own budget, and so on. another new figure to speak for the european union abroad. what the european union needs is credibility, credibility that can be obtained by being consistent. for example, how is it possible to negotiate the accession of a country like turkey, which is committing widespread human rights violations? how is it that a partnership and cooperation agreement is being concluded with a country like vietnam, a communist country where the human rights situation is precarious and where there is no serious discussion of human rights? the same applies to our relations with china. and what is the european union doing for the farmers of south africa? i have the unfortunate impression that the european union is blind in one eye.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i join both my colleague salafranca and mrs ashton in saying how powerless and horrified we feel by the images coming from syria. however, i do not entirely agree with ignacio salafranca's idea of a military presence today. or at least we should agree on what we would call a military presence, since there are now observers whose mandate could possibly be extended. but i think the temptation of military intervention in this region of the world -- with lebanon next door, half of which supports bashar al-assad, iran next door, iraq next door, and the destabilization and terrorism that would inevitably creep into the region -- is so great that we really have a dilemma. at the moment, apart from the extremely significant political pressure, apart from a humanitarian pressure that is making some progress today, i believe that the impact of military intervention would be much more disastrous in my opinion. that's why i'd like to ask you a few questions, mrs. ashton. part of the solution, part of the problem is with the russians. there was the eu/russia summit: what was the russian response? they made a proposal for an international conference on syria including iran: what is your reaction to that? what did they say about guns and russia? that is still an important part of our concern, as far as syria is concerned. at the moment, apart from an improved annan plan with temporary setbacks and a transfer of power, even leaving bashar al-assad in the shadows, i personally fear a war of proximity, as it were, that is to say foreign interventions fighting in a sectarian war. and i would add that, alas, if bashar al-assad is illegitimate in our eyes because of the crimes he has committed and for which he will be held accountable, he is not yet illegitimate for at least 50% of his population, if not more. today we should be wary of support for bashar al-assad, whether it be out of conviction or out of fear of chaos and sectarian war. as for israel and palestine, i think i have outlived my time. we shall deal with this question at another time, and we shall return to the settlements.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we completely share the high representative’s indignation and horror at what is ongoing in syria, and all the frustrations at the difficulties we encounter. the sensitivities, or rather the temperaments, of some of my colleagues in my group might be different, some more inclined to intervene more quickly, others more aware of – well everybody is aware of – all the complexities of the situation, but according to our temperaments some might or might not demand quicker interventions. my personal hopes are, high representative, that the course you have chosen brings improvements and contributes to halting the horrors which are ongoing and that we finally see the departure of a leader who certainly, morally, has become completely illegitimate. i would like to say a few things now about the arab spring, or what we call the arab spring. of course, no two situations are alike and the situation in each of those countries is different. myself, being a special friend of, or having a special tender feeling for morocco, i am sometimes a little bit concerned that it might be overlooked because everything is going too smoothly, so to say, and that would be a pity. but that is not the most important thing right now. right now what i would like to warn against is excessive pessimism. the elections might not have given all the results we would have hoped for, but at least in most of the countries where they took place they have taken place in rather satisfactory circumstances, although there are question marks about the way things have gone in algeria. i believe that the people in those countries deserve our continuing support, and one of the worst things we could do is turn our backs on them because they have not one hundred percent voted the way we would have ideally liked them to do. finally, on the middle east, there are two short things i would like to say: first of all it should be clear to everybody that my entire political group is excessively committed to the possibility for israel to develop in a secure way. at the same time, we are just as committed to seeing a two-state solution and very worried at seeing how this is becoming, on the ground, more and more difficult.
president. - many colleagues have already focused on syria, and rightly so. i fully support that, but i want to say something about the middle east. the european union has indeed been the largest donor to the palestinians for many years, but we have seen our efforts repeatedly thwarted by israeli actions. i am also pleased, as is mr oomen-ruijten, with the latest conclusions of the foreign affairs council on the middle east, which really puts the finger on the wound, given the thorny reaction of israel afterwards, which means that a delicate thread has been struck. these are, of course, words that are beautiful on paper, but my question remains: what does the eu need to do to really care about the peace process? in this connection, i have a very specific question about the quartet: what do you think of the proposal made at the time by the arab league to include them in the quartet, and in particular to make it a quintet? i know that the united states is blocking it, but what does the eu say about it? maybe that can give us some new momentum! and, better still, perhaps the un security council should be put back in charge of the peace process directly, since blair's mediation mission has not done much to stir things up.
mr president, the tragic figures have just been recalled, syria is witnessing a martyr and barbarism is being invited to the table by a regime clinging to power. bashar al-assad is now using children as human shields. this is stated in a report published this morning by the united nations. in the face of this, words and statements are no longer enough. our diplomacy has clearly failed. we must go further, we must go differently, with an international intervention force, more than likely, so that all these innocent victims have not perished in vain, and that the syrian regime is one day judged for its crimes, so that the european union admits that at present there is no compromise possible with the moscow-damascus-tehran axis. i agree with the question put by mr millán mon, madam commissioner: what means do we have, what means are there to make it bend, so that the european union finally invests even more in preventive diplomacy and exercises all its influence to limit the risks of spread in the region - and i am thinking, of course, of lebanon? mrs de keyser has already mentioned this and i fully share her concern.
president, mrs ashton, the debate today is rightly mainly about the terrible situation in syria, but i would like to ask you to pay attention to egypt. we have been to the area with a delegation a few weeks ago and have experienced the enormous complexity of the situation there. you know that next weekend the egyptians will be able to choose in a second round of the presidential elections between two extremes: the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission on the basis of the proposals contained in the report. that is, of course, frustrating and a very difficult dilemma for all those who hoped for real change. meanwhile, the state treasury is empty and there is no clarity about the real power of the future president, because there is no new constitution yet. all this shows that the transition process is difficult. many look to egypt and wonder if it will really work. perhaps the improvement of the economic situation for the modal egyptian is very much in favour or against, because they are with many who are waiting for an improvement in their situation. i would like to know, mrs ashton, how you view the situation in egypt and the further developments there, especially in view of the scepticism of quite a few political actors towards the more for more principle.
for the greens/efa group mr president, it is obvious, mrs ashton, that on 28 november the congolese government was not elected. in relation to what you have just said, i make three concrete proposals for our long-term commitment. the first concerns the notorious case of the assassination of mr chebeya, the human rights defender. i think an appeal is absolutely necessary in this case. i think that we must clarify the possible responsibilities of the police and that the release of thierry michel's film on this issue is a guarantee that can help to make this clarification possible. secondly, mrs ashton, freedom of the press. many intimidations and arrests of journalists have taken place since november 28. this has to be noted and said, it's very important. the last thing you mentioned is insecurity in the east. what's happening is very disturbing. the violence continues, the mutiny, which you mentioned, involving mr ntanganda is extremely worrying and has made the situation worse. it is also believed that rwandan nationals with heavy weapons are operating in the area. in this context, i go a little further than you: i think that not only must things be said, but the rwandan authorities must also be questioned. yes or no, is there any passive or active involvement of rwanda in the presence of nationals with heavy weapons when there is an embargo on these weapons in congo? i think that we must act here too, not only to wish for peace in this region but, above all, to check whether the rwandan authorities are involved. we cannot remain silent about this. these are three things i propose you to implement fairly quickly, independently - i wish it as you do - of our long-term commitment to the congolese people who have been waiting for these elections for so long and who are now so disappointed and in such great difficulty.
mr president, the chebeya case has shocked the international community as much as the human rights defenders in the democratic republic of congo. it has become, in a way, the barometer of the democratic health of the country. so where are we after the high-profile trial in 2011? as mrs vergiat said, murderers have names, faces, but some still get away with it. general numbi was never prosecuted. the body of fidel bazana, the driver of chebeya, was never found. the widow shebaia's appeal was rejected, but after a year i have just been informed today that a date seems to have been set for the appeal to be heard. the film by director thierry michel, dedicated to the chebeya case, was supposed to be released in july in kinshasa, but a letter asking for the film to be banned was sent by the ministry of justice to the president of the republic, the security service and the attorney general. the courage of the international humanist federation, the carter centre in kinshasa, the wallonia-brussels centre and the many parishes and churches that have decided to defy the bans and hold private screenings is to be commended. i shall be attending myself at the beginning of july. the congolese elections - as has been said - were marred by irregularities. it is now up to the congolese authorities to prove to us that despite these irregularities, the project of a truly democratic republic of congo still stands. the chebeya case shows us the way forward.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i think that joseph daul has stolen my text because i have little to say now, after his speech. no, really, for the first time i have almost nothing to add... (mr daul exclaims: 'we are going to merge the groups') i don't know if we should merge, we'll take back the epp from you, it seems like a good idea. let us be clear, the council has just agreed on a €100 billion bailout for the spanish banks, and what is the consequence? let us face it, because it is alarming: it is that the markets do not believe us. on monday, yesterday, the spreads had gone up dramatically to more than 500 basis points, even nearly 600 basis points for spain; almost 500 basis points also for italy. we have to ask what is happening. are they mad or are we mad? are we seeing things properly? well, i think we all know the answer in this house - maybe not the ecr and maybe not ukip, but i think everyone else can see that unless we find a structural and a global solution to the crisis we will simply continue to fight fires as we are doing now. because that's what we're doing, fire-fighting, and fighting one fire after the other. greece first, then ireland, then portugal, then spain, and tomorrow, you may be sure, italy. not setting up a systemic answer, a structural solution to the crisis and not building a real firewall that can resist. what do we need? we know we need. three things: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and whether he is aware that the council has already made a number of proposals to the council, and whether it is not aware that the council has already made a number of proposals to the council. the second thing we know also: a fiscal union including a redemption fund - the one we will vote on today in the two-pack - so there is no need for an initiative from the council or the commission about that. they simply need to respond to the legislative proposal of the parliament in the coming days and weeks. finally we know what we really need, which is a political union with a real economic government. so my plea to you, mr barroso, is to say that speeches here, speeches in the council and recommendations from the commission are all very well, but what we need now are legislative proposals from your side put directly on the table of the council and parliament on a banking union, on a fiscal union and on a political union. there is no need to wait for an agreement between france and germany and italy and spain. you have the right of initiative; you can make things happen and move forward. put your proposals on the table on a redemption fund, and put your proposals on the table for a real banking union. do it now, in the next few weeks, because i am not sure that on 28 and 29 june our leaders in the council will agree on a banking union and can agree on a redemption fund. finally, on the multiannual financial framework (mff) and own resources, i regret one thing, which is that neither the council nor the commission have said a word, a single phrase, on something that is the most crucial element of this multiannual financial framework which is, finally, to return to the initial idea of the founding fathers and to make a direct link between the citizens and the european union. there is no real democracy in europe if you only have a parliament with no say in the resources of its institutions. in every parliament, in every country, in every democratic country in the world, the parliament has a direct say over the resources of the country, over the resources of the state. so that is what we need most now in these discussions and in this debate, and i can tell you that there will be no consent from our group to the multiannual financial framework if there are no own resources in this multiannual financial framework. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149 (8))
blue-card answer. – i am more of the opinion of david cameron. two or three days ago he said something like: ‘oh, the eurozone needs to solve its problems. we need a real union and real union of the eurozone. we need an economic union in the eurozone; we need a fiscal union in the eurozone; we need a political union in the eurozone!’ that is what david cameron said. he is now the best of federalists – outside the eurozone, naturally! he stays outside, but he has a message to give us. what is barack obama saying? ‘oh, the europeans have to solve their problems. they have to create a union.’ the problem is not europe in this crisis, the problem is that there is not enough europe – that is the real problem of the crisis today. (applause)we shall only overcome that problem if we finally regain the courage to use the words and the message of monnet and of schuman, who worked for a real federal europe. ‘federal europe’ is not a buzzword, federal europe is the solution. (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also good that the negotiating box is now being used by the european council, where growth, but also the european semester and therefore budgetary consolidation at the level of the member states, are being discussed. the proposal on the table allows, thanks to own resources, to reduce the contributions of the member states and thus to make room in their own budget and with the own resources of the european union for a growth budget, which is essential for the european budget. the time has come to establish the basic principles that will ensure both growth and budgetary orthodoxy. the budget can make a vital contribution to this. i hope that the european council will also be the occasion to send a structural signal to the euro and the eurozone. we do indeed need a banking union, we need a political union and we must take structural measures if we are to be credible.
mr president, commissioner, minister, of course we need an ambitious mff, a solid budget and own resources, but i understand that you are preparing to reintroduce into the budget amounts which have hitherto been outside the budget. i'll take that. why not? why not? it's actually a pretty good idea. but if you do not raise the ceilings in proportion to what you have reintroduced in the budget, that is a double cut which can be expected, because the council, today, mr minister, cannot say what its negative priorities are. the sure report asked him, he can't tell them. so i warn you: today, with the sure report we voted for, we cannot simultaneously want a 2020 strategy, the new powers of the lisbon treaty and a lower budget with a double cut. otherwise, the 2020 strategy will be like the lisbon strategy: a bitter failure. personally, i have no desire to assume that strategy 2020 has failed miserably. i would therefore caution against this. this is very important.
in writing. mr president, we are not going to solve the crisis in europe by greece leaving the euro zone. such a scenario will only lead to socioeconomic disaster and a severe loss of prosperity for all europeans. the european union is not a single currency, but a single currency. in short, it's not an option. the only way out of this crisis is the way forward. only by deepening european cooperation can we emerge stronger from this crisis. the european council in madrid in december last year called for the creation of a european union-wide debt management system. or to put it another way: economic growth and sound finances are two sides of the same coin. 'we have three months left,' says christine lagarde of the imf, 'to save the euro.' i assume she knows what she's talking about. three months is more than enough time to do what needs to be done. it is a matter of political courage. the european parliament is setting out some clear signs here today. the heads of state or government should take up their responsibilities and carry them out at the summit on 28 june 2012.
in writing. the european budget is of paramount importance as a powerful investment instrument, a vehicle for cohesion and solidarity between states, a budget that is always in balance, a source of savings for national budgets through the mutualisation of expenditure. a budget financed largely from own resources is needed. the ftt and the vat reform must increase the european budget, reduce the contributions of the states and give europe budgetary sovereignty. the guidelines set out by the former sure committee must be followed, including the increase of at least 5% and the creation of transition regions for the structural funds. the council's 'negotiating box' cannot diminish the european parliament's negotiating capacity. it must be able to play its role as a co-legislator as provided for in the treaties. i shall pay particular attention to the inclusion in this document of the regions in transition (to ensure cohesion throughout the european territory), the egf (to help redundant workers to find a job) and the edp. i hope that the belgian government will defend these theses in the council, because it is a question of defining the budgetary context of the union for the next seven years and therefore a key moment for the european project.
in writing. the european parliament gave its backing to the draft regulation proposed in spring 2011 by the commission to update the eu's generalised system of preferences (gsp) to reflect changes in the structure of world trade. the next gsp, which will come into force on 1 january 2014, will no longer grant tariff preferences to high and middle income countries per capita on the world bank's list. exports to the eu from countries whose per capita income has exceeded usd 4 000 for the last four years will no longer benefit from reduced or zero duties, such as oil-producing and oil-exporting countries (saudi arabia, kuwait, qatar, etc.). the update reduces the number of countries with preferential access to eu markets from 176 to 75. i welcome the vote on this report, which i think is fair: the next gsp will exclude high-income countries in order to devote more attention to the poorest countries. these are the countries we must help first!
in writing. − this report and the whole theme make it clear that a coordinated financial and economic policy is of paramount importance to the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the council's proposals are implemented. we need to make it clear to eu citizens that it is important for all of us to respect the clear rules of budgetary discipline, but also to take growth-friendly initiatives.
in writing. how to vote yes to a text that does not even try to solve the banking hemorrhage and the financing of the debt. europe will never recover without it. the text does indeed contain some progress, such as the part on eurobonds, and this is mainly due to the fight we european socialists have waged. however, i have seen during the debates that the philosophy of blind rigor, of 'everything in finance' and of an almost dehumanized economy is still firmly entrenched in the minds of many of my colleagues from other political quarters. how much time and how many wasted lives will it take before some people take responsibility and agree to effectively combat speculation, to introduce a tax on financial transactions and a rating agency that is not controlled by multinationals, and to protect pension funds?
in writing. - the ppe is satisfied that the two-pack has been approved. we hope to start negotiations with the council as soon as possible in order to complete the dossier before the summer. my group is also pleased that essential elements of the budgetary treaty have been incorporated into the two-pack and that the growth and stability pact remains in full force. budgetary vigilance remains necessary. to restore confidence, but also to avoid putting off today's bills until tomorrow. parliament is not only voting today on strengthening budgetary coordination, but it is also sending a signal that it is time to make progress on budgetary integration. a thorough debate on the feasibility, timing and terms of debt-collective instruments - eurobonds, temporary redemption funds or variants thereof - is in order. we are open to this debate if it is conducted in a serious manner and if the proposals do not create more problems than they solve. the keyword for the months and years ahead remains confidence, the bridge between savings and growth. to insist on a european strategy of confidence, committed to sound public finances, a sound banking system, economic growth and jobs and a socially just society: that's the best way out of the crisis.
in writing. today, the european parliament said it was not ready to approve the next regulation on the multiannual financial framework (2014-2020) without a political agreement on the reform of the own resources system that would end existing rebates and other correction mechanisms, and lead to greater transparency, fairness and sustainability . this is, in essence, the warning we gave to the council when we adopted a resolution on the eu's multiannual financial framework and own resources. and i fully support this message! i also reiterated my call for a robust eu budget for the period 2014-2020. the union's budget is an investment budget with a strong leverage effect, with 94% of its appropriations devoted to stimulating economic growth and employment and to strengthening the union's role as a global player. the union budget plays and must continue to play a strategic role alongside the fiscal consolidation measures currently imposed on national budgets.
in writing. i abstained because, although the idea is attractive, many of the conditions for such an agreement are not met. this type of agreement is nothing more or less than granting transnationals the right to go to these countries to seize large public contracts, natural resources, and this on very advantageous terms for them, without ever worrying about the future of the planet and its inhabitants. colombia is 5 million hectares of land taken by the military forces and 4 million displaced peasants. 60% of the representatives of the workers murdered in the world are in this country. our farmers are subject to very strict conditions of breeding and production. whether it is traceability, working conditions for staff, hygiene rules or quality controls. obviously, this involves a cost. the mass arrival of cheaper products, with very little guarantee of quality or ethics, is likely to seriously disrupt the market and jeopardise the future of many operators. why promote the benefit of a few over the common good?
in writing. on wednesday 13 june, we adopted our recommendations to the council on the eu special representative for human rights. in particular, i stress the importance of increasing its visibility, effectiveness, coherence and accountability in relation to european human rights policy. to this end, i consider it essential that this representative has a strong, independent and flexible mandate, with responsibilities covering the strengthening of democracy, the rule of law and institution building, international justice and international humanitarian rules. i would like this representative to work closely with the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, the european external action service and eu delegations, as well as international organisations, ngos and human rights experts. i also express my wish to play his role in the appointment procedure and the monitoring of the entire mandate of the representative.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, as did the vast majority of my colleagues. voting against means preventing the eu special representative for human rights from enhancing the visibility and coherence of the eu's human rights policy as a fundamental element of its common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and from contributing to raising the profile of the european union's human rights in the world. that would be simply scandalous and a political, even human, attitude scandalous!!!
in writing. i am delighted that the resolution on the un arms trade treaty was adopted by a very large majority. although not binding, it is a strong signal from the eu to its member states to adopt a strong common position at the international conference to be held at un headquarters in new york from 2 to 27 july. after four years of negotiations on this treaty, it is time to get it done! we call for the new international treaty to be based on standards that are as clear, as strict and as high as possible; strengthen accountability and its enforcement be open and transparent , with enforcement monitoring and reporting mechanisms; it must also propose a strict assessment of the country to which a sale is ultimately destined, i.e. an assessment that makes the conclusion of a contract subject to several criteria (economic, social, democratic and humanitarian standards).
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the road towards a true economic and fiscal union to complement our monetary union is, of course, full of hurdles. the new legislation in force on economic governance, reinforced today with the voting of the ‘two-pack’ in parliament, has given new tools to the commission to ensure that member states choose the right part of a growth-friendly fiscal consolidation, but also stick to their country-specific recommendations. as a liberal, i truly believe that reforms of our economy and social system, such as labour market reforms and pension reforms, should be at the heart of regaining competitiveness in the eurozone. but unfortunately in the past months we have seen that some member states have overly contradicted the country-specific recommendations. let us take the example of france. it has stated that it will undo the pension reforms and lower the retirement age. this is completely against the spirit of the recommendations given to france to ensure that all workers stay in employment longer. also in my own country, belgium, wage-setting hampers regaining competitiveness, but socialist members of governments have openly said that they will not address this problem. this is a perfect example of how countries choose not to show solidarity with other countries within the eurozone. as long as member states keep looking to other member states to enlarge the competitiveness of the union and are not able or willing to implement or reform in their own country, the fundamental economic crisis in europe will not end. we must ensure that member states finally take ownership of the european semester and implement the structural reforms needed. we must ensure that, instead of blaming the european union for everything that goes wrong, member states are made responsible and more accountable for their policies. the commission will have to ensure that member states put into practice what they preach, but how will it make sure that member states within the council show the necessary solidarity with each other and commit to the fiscal consolidation and structural reforms as requested through the european semester or enable the european union to be the frontrunner in attracting private investment to regain competitiveness and growth? true solidarity implies responsibility from all member states. member states should stop hiding behind europe, but instead use the full potential that europe has to get out of this crisis.
for the greens/efa group madam president, this resolution, which i hope we will vote unanimously on tomorrow, because it is so obvious, is part of a strategy, a strategy of an international call for the banning of genital mutilation at the united nations level. it is very important that we can support this international strategy with our resolution. a number of women have been involved for years, such as chantal compaoré, the first lady of burkina faso, in making this call internationally. other european countries, as has been said, have long since endorsed this ban. we must therefore be able to move this matter forward and our resolution can contribute to this at the un general assembly. above all, we must realize that the ban is an extremely important step, politically, in terms of signals, but that it obviously does not exempt us from working in all ways with women's groups, with women who use these practices - because it is not at all a man's practice, it is, alas, a woman's practice - we must be able to support programmes in prevention, in support. if there is a general ban, adopted by the united nations, there will be, as with other issues, such as anti-personnel mines or others, a follow-up, accompanying strategy. this is very important if we are to eventually eradicate this scourge for all women on the planet.
madam president, i would first like to pay tribute to all the young girls, all the mutilated women, who have dared to bear witness to their suffering. it's important that we know what genital mutilation really is. we always think of clitoral excision, but there's also infibulation. let me tell you, the labia majora are also removed, the vulva is sutured with sewing thread or acacia thorns until the healing occurs covering the vagina and urethra. to allow the evacuation of urine, menstrual bleeding, and vaginal secretions, a small reed rod is inserted during suture. it'll leave a tiny hole for the scar to heal. and according to one witness, the worst of it is the bleeding and the urination. to urinate, it takes an hour, sometimes two. later, when these girls have their period, they will have to insert a small stick into the vagina to open a passageway that will allow the blood to drain. the girls squat and contract their bladder to urinate. they roll on the floor and it's very painful. i met gynecologists in brussels who discovered women giving birth while they were in the infibrillator and the husband did not want to allow the infibrillator to be removed. this is our home. this ownership of men over their wives, and more specifically over their sex, is not muslim. it is a thousand-year-old custom that also corresponds, in our christian tradition, to the chastity belt with which the crusaders girded their wives before going to deliver jerusalem from the hands of the infidels. but it is still, and still, centuries later, the same struggle for women's freedom. and even today, the same religious obscurantism in cruel patriarchal systems perpetuates before our eyes these forms of torture, which must be removed from all taboos, and i thank the commission for addressing this issue.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, too many girls and women are still being subjected to female genital mutilation today. the number of girls who have been mutilated is currently estimated at 140 million worldwide, and about 3 million girls are still at risk of being mutilated every year. such mutilations, usually performed on children and adolescents between the ages of four and fourteen, are also performed on infants under one year of age in some african countries. it is high time that the fundamental rights of women, as well as those of children, are respected in all countries of the world and not only in europe, where we are particularly concerned and where - as michael cashman said, before me - about 500 000 women have been subjected to this mutilation. it is not only the physical health but also the mental health of all those whose dignity is being attacked. no reason given by mutilationists can justify such barbarism against women. it deprives them of their basic right to control their bodies. finally, europe must therefore do everything in its power to help all countries to combat this form of abuse and, in particular, to support the efforts of the associations which fight against these practices, as my colleagues nicole kiil-nielsen and jiménez-becerril barrio have already mentioned.
madam president, commissioner, one can wonder about the apparent inertia of the public authorities in this matter. in such a situation, victims have a right to expect real accountability and real solutions. it is true that the actions of the monitoring committee set up by the health authorities are far from without blame. i also note that the issue of overcharging the surgeons responsible for removing defective prostheses has not been really addressed, which is also unacceptable. gilles pargneaux recalled the alarming figures for the victims of this criminal action by the pip company. following up on my question of 13 january, you replied that the inclusion in the legislation on medical devices of injected or implanted products intended exclusively for aesthetic purposes was one of the options proposed by the commission in a public consultation launched in 2008. i would like to know, commissioner, in the context of this draft revision of the legislation on medical devices, whether you would like to - if you intend to - extend the scope of this legislation to the cosmetic products in question. how soon can we expect to have this legislation?
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, i would also like to welcome the danish presidency, but perhaps it is the day after the defeat, i do not know, we will do without it. first of all, it is important, and i would like to thank in particular mrs de lange, mr sârbu, mr girling and mr liotard, mr carl schlyter, and mr rossi, who during this long work were the rapporteurs for their respective political groups and who have proved that we are obviously stronger together than when parliament is divided on certain issues. this is of course in the best interests of the citizens, the families and the vulnerable groups who are the first to be affected by the future food regulations. the text we are debating now and voting on in three hours is essential for newborns, young children under three and those with long-term illnesses who have specific nutritional needs. to put it simply, this refers to food intended for particular audiences, which cover about 2% of the vast food market. i shall not go into the genesis of this legislation at great length, except to say that the commission has done well, after 35 years of applying the legislation on dietetic food, which was later extended, of course, to other types of products, to undertake the complete renewal of this particular legal arsenal, and for good reason. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not used in the same way as the foodstuffs of other member states. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, by its unanimous vote on my draft report on 29 february, sent a clear signal, which i will summarize as follows: the approach of the commission to simplify this legislation and abolish the concept of dietetic food, which i have just mentioned, is the right one. we supported her. it is also crucial to maintain a tailor-made legislative framework for three types of food: food for infants and young children - liquid and solid - and food - as i said - for the sick. so many subgroups of captive populations, so to speak, who cannot exercise this free choice, hence the crucial importance for us of maintaining strict rules on labelling and composition. thirdly, we wanted to extend this scope to other vulnerable groups of the population, who are equally fragile, without, of course, wanting to make any gradation here. in this case, people who are overweight and who are on a drastic diet of less than 1,200 calories a day and people who are gluten intolerant, those who suffer from what is called celiac disease. about 2% of the european population suffer from this disease and they support us very strongly in our desire to maintain a specific legal framework for these so-called gluten-free products. i remind you, this legislation is designed to protect the most fragile, the most vulnerable among us, it's essential. we also wanted to - and i cannot go into all of them here, but it is important - think about our most dynamic companies in europe, those smes which are at the heart of innovation and job creation in our european territory. whether they are italian or german and active in gluten-free products, belgian random , active in food supplements, the least that can be said is that smes and they have come very close to us, of course, throughout the work were concerned about the commission's plan to overturn the current legislation in the 2006 claims regulation. i can easily understand them and i will use one argument, but one that is very strong: the cost they have to face to produce a sound scientific dossier to present to efsa, between eur 500 000 and eur 1 million on average. how do you expect to achieve healthy and fair competition in these circumstances? the priority given to access to the internal market for smes must therefore be transversal in all our legislation. of course, we're bringing it up here. i would like to conclude by giving a short message to the fictitious rapporteurs. you will understand that as rapporteur i have to stick to the overall compromise which was finalised in committee. i do not wish to reopen new fronts or to reopen fronts that have been cut in committee. although i may personally sympathize with some of the amendments tabled in plenary, particularly perhaps the 84th on the question of pesticides, i shall stick to our agreement, to our compromises. it is covered by our amendment no 63 and above all a word is a word and i will stick to it. i thank you and would be glad to hear from the following speakers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have welcomed the report by mrs ries, and therefore the proposal for a regulation amending and supplementing the rules on food for infants and children and food for special medical purposes, because this text is intended to help europe achieve a clearer and more coherent legal framework. first of all, i would like to emphasize the obligation to provide complete, objective information on food products. a very sensitive case is that of advertising for infant formulae for infants aged 0 to 6 months and for babies aged 6 months to 2 years. the facts show that advertising practices tend to disturb parents by using marketing strategies rather than providing them with scientific and factual information that enables consumers to make a clear distinction in order to avoid any risk of confusion. this lack of clarity is a danger to the health of our children, a danger which must be avoided through stricter controls. finally, i think that the report could have provided for more effective evaluation mechanisms. this assessment should not be made a priori by considering only the consumers to whom the products are intended but on the basis of a careful and comprehensive assessment of all the components of the product in question.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, a few concluding remarks indeed. i would like to thank all the speakers who have expressed what i would call general support for the overall compromises we have reached in committee. there were, of course, and i heard them, as did the commission, the colours, the tones, the priorities that we know and which vary according to groups and individuals. here, important topics were raised: gluten-free foods - the commissioner has just come back to this, and i will come back to it - labelling and advertising, the question of the added value of infant formulae, the famous gums - mrs de lange spoke about this, mr schlyter also. we know their concerns, which are also mine. we'll get back to you. the question of pesticides was also discussed at length, particularly by mrs klaß: it is - as the commissioner has just mentioned - the cornerstone of the overall, horizontal legislation on which we all worked together a few months ago, and which we have focused on here, on the even more ambitious, more precise and more specific needs of the populations concerned. but we did it together precisely to ensure that the texts were consistent with the transversal legislation. just a word on something that was not mentioned, perhaps because the danish presidency is not here, namely the lack of agreement at first reading. the failure of this attempt is also partly the fault of the presidency, but also perhaps because the fast track procedure is showing its limits. it is a path that has been used far too often since the beginning of this mandate, since 2009, and where parliament and parliament's ambitions have not always met, in my opinion. i therefore continue to believe that our decision to go to the vote and indeed to go back for a second reading - which i hope will be swift - is still the right one. i conclude with the two major differences with the commission, which i can see from listening to the commissioner. the gluten-free issue. there are many of us here - and the majority - who think that the reference in the legislation to 'food information to consumer' will not be sufficient. this goes beyond labelling and labelling issues. in our view, article 36 of the regulation on consumer information on foodstuffs is not sufficient in terms of quality, safety and composition. but we'll get back to that. as regards the question of delegated acts - you mentioned it at the very beginning, commissioner - we as parliament continue to want to be effectively involved in any decision, for example, through our right to scrutiny, concerning the amendment of the famous union list. we are therefore holding firm on the question of delegated acts, but these are open works. i hope we can return there very soon with our cypriot friends.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, you mentioned three concerns. the first is the accelerated liberalization of the sector. who are you talking to? the accelerated and unbridled liberalization of the market is creating deregulation in all markets, which is causing hyper-volatility in prices, which is the greatest insecurity for the agricultural world. the increase in flexibility of 1% per year did not help because, in an unfavourable market environment - i remember what happened in the autumn of 2009 - it caused the most serious crisis the sector has experienced in the last 25 years. the second is the territorial balance. we need to insure it, and we don't have that right now. you're talking about restructuring measures. restructuring means the disappearance of production in less productive areas. but it is the opposite. we must put our words into action and maintain production even where the regions are less favourable. thirdly, the current market situation. it's turning around, and it's not necessarily because of seasonal peaks, it's clearly increased volatility in the milk market. i wanted to ask you a question, commissioner. we're talking about soft landing for the current system. should we also be interested in a soft take off, and should the commission ensure that the new system which we have tried to put in place and which will soon succeed the previous one is also safe for all european milk producers?
question for the council mr wojciechowski, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make a point of speaking for europe in a broader sense, because i was against the liberalization and abolition of quotas, as were many others. who wanted it? perhaps mrs fischer boel was an ultra-liberal in the commission. the tone has changed there, thankfully. but it was the majority of the member states, that is to say the governments, that is to say the national politicians, who wanted it. we must also be able to say at some point that europe is not responsible for everything. do you agree with me that national politicians are largely responsible for the current situation in europe, particularly in the dairy sector?
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report by a very large majority, which is ambitious in providing for stricter labelling of baby milk and food for special medical purposes. the text adopted will constitute parliament's position on this matter in its forthcoming negotiations with the council of ministers. the changes were proposed because of problems faced by both consumers and the authorities. for example, parliament believes that the labelling of all milk-based products for babies up to 12 months of age should not include any representation of infants and no image which could 'idealize' the use of the product. the commission should also review the current complex legal situation on milk for children aged 12 to 36 months and propose new rules if necessary. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. it was also recommended that the commission prepare a study to address the lack of specific rules on lactose intolerance.
in writing. i welcomed the proposal for a regulation however, i have reservations about this report. first of all, i would like to emphasize the obligation to provide objective and complete information on food products. a very sensitive case is that of advertising for infant formulae for infants from 0 to 6 months and for babies from 6 months to 2 years. the facts show that advertising practices tend to disturb parents by using marketing strategies rather than providing scientific and factual information that enables consumers to make a clear distinction in order to avoid any risk of confusion. there's a danger to our children's health. finally, i think that the ries report should provide for more effective evaluation mechanisms. this assessment should not be made a priori, considering only the consumers for whom the product is intended, but on the basis of a careful and comprehensive assessment of all the components of the product concerned. the regulation which parliament is to adopt should take greater account of consumer protection and health and of marketing strategies put in place by the food industry.
in writing. for better understanding and participation of the european citizen, the principle of multilingualism within the european institutions must remain a reality, despite the budgetary expenditure that this entails. this resolution will ensure that every citizen of the union has the right to address the institutions in the official eu language of his or her choice. it is important that public consultations be conducted without any linguistic discrimination.
in writing. in a resolution adopted on 14 june, i asked the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, together with my fellow meps, to appoint a special coordinator whose mandate would be to report regularly on tibet in order to advance respect for the fundamental rights of the tibetan people , in particular their right to preserve and develop their distinct identity and religious, cultural and linguistic expressions . it seems to me important that this coordinator should also support constructive dialogue in the negotiations between the chinese government and the dalai lama's envoys, and provide assistance to tibetan refugees, particularly in nepal and india. i also invite catherine ashton to discuss the human rights situation in tibet at the eu-china meetings. in this resolution we also call on the chinese authorities to grant genuine autonomy to the historical territory of tibet and urge them to respect the freedom of expression, association and belief of tibetans and their linguistic and cultural freedoms.
in writing. it was important that the single market act include a programme that takes into account social and consumer protection, which is reflected in the inclusion of a social clause in all internal market legislation, legislation on services of general economic interest, a legislative programme to strengthen workers' rights. it is a workable solution, the result of a tough negotiation. it is only a step and there is still a long way to go, but it is encouraging.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this non-legislative resolution, which largely focuses on the measures promoted by the european commission to promote economic growth and job creation. in line with the employment package presented by the commission in mid-april, parliament wanted to encourage investment in the green economy, health and new technologies sectors, while welcoming proposals on the introduction of decent minimum wages to combat poverty and social dumping and the creation of a european youth guarantee. i think that the measures proposed by the european commission to stimulate employment are in the right direction, but i would have liked to see more substantial measures adopted, such as the amendments advocating solidarity in taxation systems in order to preserve the financial basis of social protection schemes, or those encouraging coordination of collective bargaining at european level or rebalancing of taxation!
in writing. − many are now convinced that in times of crisis the difficult balance between austerity and growth promotion must be found. the way to get there is very different. the single market offers a unique opportunity, of course, if member states see growth 'together and not just at home'. research, sustainable development, services sector here are some of the niches to find to create jobs. but this will only work if the necessary resources are available. against this background, the multiannual perspective is of particular importance for the eu budget, as it can free up the necessary resources, for example in cohesion policy, mobility and research, to support 'growth that creates jobs'.
in writing. with the european union experiencing record unemployment and the economic outlook for the coming months not looking promising, a rebalancing between the current austerity measures and investment for jobs must be found. it is imperative to boost the labour market through structural reform. economic and employment policies must focus on creating conditions favourable to job creation and encouraging demand for labour. the employment package contains key areas (such as youth employment and unemployment, education, training, skills development, retraining of workers, etc.) which require concrete measures to create the conditions for a competitive european economy, based on real performance and not on endless large public borrowing. the priorities are therefore to facilitate business creation and to identify and overcome obstacles for potential entrepreneurs.
in writing. without job creation, there will never be recovery. but the crisis must not be used as an excuse for precarious employment. so while i agree with a good deal of the text, and parliament's rejection of amendments nos 8, 9, 10 and 11 (which were rejected overwhelmingly by the right and the conservatives) thus casting dangerous doubt on its will to maintain a system of social protection and labour protection, i cannot, as i had originally intended, take the liberty of endorsing this text.
in writing. i am very proud, as a member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, of the joint resolution adopted by a large majority to end fgm. this resolution is intended to send a strong signal to this effect, especially to the united nations, but also to the member states and the european commission. the ep wants the perpetrators to be punished. every year 3 million girls worldwide are at risk of fgm, including 180 000 in europe. these are intolerable figures for a traditional practice which, i insist, has nothing to do with religion. we therefore call on the forthcoming united nations general assembly to adopt a resolution calling for an end to genital mutilation worldwide, by harmonizing worldwide measures and by drawing up recommendations and guidelines. the united nations, like civil society, should also allocate financial resources to this cause and carry out targeted programmes. as for the member states, i believe that they should all ratify and apply the relevant international instruments.
in writing. my full support for this resolution, particularly as a member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. there is nothing in islam that requires these practices. these are ancient practices, cultural rather than religious. in addition to the sanctions, which are essential for zero tolerance of these barbaric practices, proactive education and training strategies must be developed at local level, including for mothers who perpetuate the abuse they have experienced in their daughters.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution as it calls for stronger controls on medical devices, particularly breast implants, to avoid a repeat of the pip scandal. these proposals should feed into the debate on the review of medical device legislation due to take place in the autumn. the pip scandal has highlighted a malfunction at european and national level, including a lack of cooperation between the authorities concerned and a lack of traceability of the raw materials used for medical devices. we therefore called on the european commission to provide for a system of pre-market authorization for certain products, including breast implants, and asked for the introduction of an implant recipient passport, including the product code, its specific characteristics and potential harmful effects, as well as an inventory of breast implants in each member state. we also wanted to see the creation of a system of collective redress to help consumers obtain compensation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions.
in writing. the government's deliberate or inadvertent inaction in this matter is questionable. in such a situation, victims have a right to expect real accountability and real solutions. the actions of the monitoring committee set up by the health authorities are far from without reproach. i also note that the issue of overcharging surgeons for the removal of defective prostheses has not been really addressed, which is also unacceptable. do i need to remind you that 8,000 women have had their prostheses removed, but that there are 22,000 women who still wear them... it is unworthy of pip to use this illegal homemade gel to fill its prostheses as a replacement for a certified medical gel, and it is equally unworthy to boast that the so-called 95% of prostheses are safe... finally, the health impact of pips is not limited to isolated cases of inflammation. some pathologies developed by wearers of pip prostheses (other than cancers) cannot but be linked to the products contained in these prostheses.
author. - mr president, 17 million people are affected by famine and drought in the sahel, 8 million of whom are in a situation of near desperation. to date, the commission has released €123 million in humanitarian aid to tackle the food crisis in 2012 and €164 million in development aid. the famine is compounded by the growth of criminal and terrorist gangs, which derive their funds from drug trafficking from guinea-bissau to somalia, with cocaine from latin america and heroin from afghanistan. the military intervention in libya has precipitated instability in the region by displacing refugees in all neighboring countries and allowing libyan militias and weapons to destabilize the whole. mali was the first to pay for the libyan operation, but nigeria, niger, burkina faso, senegal and mauritania were not spared. what more can europe do than it is doing? at the last meeting of the acp and the european union in horsens we heard absolutely heartbreaking speeches from our friends in mali, niger and so on. we would say, "but what more do you want us to do?" they were crying out for a pesd mission which is planned, which must come, which is prepared but which should come much sooner to stabilise the region militarily. i am not in favour of military interventions, but the esdp is absolutely essential, otherwise these countries will consider themselves the harkis of europe, the ones who were abandoned during the libyan intervention.
author. - mr president, only half of iran's population is persian. the other half are different ethnicities. the united nations committee against racial discrimination has already pointed out, in august 2010, the phenomena of exclusion of these minorities and they are numerous. i will quote them all: there are arabs, azeri, turks, baluchis, kurds and turkmen, mainly. our resolution deals mainly with a small group of ahwazi arabs. so this is a very small part of the larger problem of ethnic minorities in iran. the group is called "april 15 youth". it's from 2005. he has a demonstration every year in april. in 2011, these protests reportedly left 15 dead and injured. it was reported on facebook and twitter. this year there has been another death and injury and those mentioned in the resolution are 6 ahwazi mainly, who are in prison. i said, "who are in prison and should be tried". information is very difficult to collect on these cases because it's circulating on social media, but still, i think in point 3, the fact that you name them and say they have to have a fair trial is something very important.
i would also like to start by thanking mrs serracchiani, the rapporteur, for the excellent result that is on the table and that has been achieved after a great deal of toil and struggle. of course, i would also like to thank all those who have contributed to this, especially the shadow rapporteurs. this agreement refines and strengthens the rules of the game of 2001, and this was necessary because there was a lot of uncertainty, too much room for manoeuvre at the level of the member states. this has led to confusion and thus to a railway market which is not really functioning optimally. at the same time, i must say that there are a number of particularly important hot-button issues which we have not tackled this time. i am thinking, for example, of the liberalisation of national passenger transport, the split or not of the infrastructure manager and the operators, the strengthening of the european railway agency. these are very important issues which we are postponing until next year. i think that is very good because it requires a good debate and we must look carefully at all the implications of such a reform. i am thinking, for example, of the implications for public services and also for the social aspect of the railway landscape. that said, this package, as it is being put to the vote tomorrow, will help to strengthen the functioning of the market and in particular that of freight transport, which has been fully liberalized. the commission will be able to provide more clarity on the way in which complaints are handled. there will also be more transparency in the financial flows, in the way the infrastructure managers are to be financed. incentives are provided to reduce noise pollution and to enhance interoperability. i would therefore ask you to support this package and not to adopt any further amendments. i'd like to leave it at that. i thank the rapporteur again. good luck with that. (the president declared the request for a 'blue card' question to be answered) (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" is the answer. i thank my colleague for the question. first of all, we must distinguish between freight and passenger transport. the liberalization of freight transport has not been successful, precisely because the rules are not sufficiently clear. that's what we're trying to figure out right now. but at the same time, of course, we have much more important issues to deal with. i am thinking of the technical interoperability which now prevents us from being able to organise cross-border freight transport with any real ease. i would just like to say this about passenger transport. that's not the issue at all. we as a group have also contributed to this. that is a debate we are going to have next year and you can be sure that my group will see to it that the rights of workers are safeguarded and that the quality of service, the public service in particular, is maintained.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. thank you to all those who have helped us to achieve this result. i am always surprised when people talk about the liberalization of the railways. we've been fighting for it for ten years, but we don't have it, nowhere. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is the result. what we want is a railway that is more efficient, a railway that opens up because we know that the railway in europe has a very different future than it has at the moment. we've been trying to do that for ten years. what are the countries doing? they make up their own rules every year. a train from brussels to germany has to change the voltage four times. the trains have to follow local, regional rules, up to 3,000 units. and then you wonder why the road is so efficient. we want an efficient railway not only to preserve jobs, but to create jobs. we want to. and they should tell the citizens and the unions that too. we've been focusing on the important thing, which is a strong regulator. the powerful regulator is supposed to eliminate the distortion that still exists today. why should we discuss large structures when we don't even have an authority that can say: this company should have proper access to the market which is not the case in many countries today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and you have to respect the people who say that in my region it's different, even technically different at the moment. could you not give a signal that the fourth package could tackle this problem technologically and find a solution there? that would reassure many today, and tomorrow you might say that the single european railway market is coming, perhaps a little faster than some people think. this would be a good sign, especially for cooperation between parliament and the commission, because we must convince the council together. that will be the most important task.
mr president, since parliament and the council have agreed fairly quickly to postpone any changes to the vertical separation between infrastructure managers and railway undertakings to the forthcoming fourth railway package and have also considerably mitigated the commission's proposals on the separation of stations and maintenance workshops, i could have expressed my satisfaction with this matter to you today. unfortunately, i have recently discovered that the commission took advantage of this revision, in breach of the relevant rules, to amend article 7 (1) and (2) of the treaty, which deal with the so-called essential functions, without explanation. if passed, this amendment to existing legislation will make the alternative to the full separation model that the commission has long favoured less coherent and less efficient. what's the alternative? it is designed to allow member states, while isolating essential functions, to maintain a certain degree of integration in order to achieve better operational performance for passengers and for goods. at a time when britain is beginning to look back on its choices, at a time when it is becoming clear that complete separation is not the way forward, i do not see why we should rush into this one-size-fits-all model today. i will therefore not be able to support the proposal for a directive on the revision of the first railway package, although i am in favour of strong regulation and transparency of financial flows.
i am also very pleased that some positive things have changed in this rearrangement and that a deal has actually been struck. i am particularly pleased with the increased transparency in financial flows for holding companies and also the evolution towards a more european-oriented regulator by better coordinating national regulators is an important step forward. but the fact remains that the council, the various member states, continue to protect their own national monopolies in the first place. as long as we cannot really speak of a single market, as long as these monopolies are protected, there will never be better service for companies, there will never be more reliability for the customers who use rail transport in europe and we will never be able to realise the economic added value of this railway package. so this fourth railway package announced by the commission will have to include these elements, will have to provide a more open transport fleet, will also have to liberalise passenger transport and will also have to achieve the complete separation between infrastructure and operations in rail transport. i hope the commission can show that ambition too.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, tachographs play an important dual role for road transport: a social and a safety role. they make sure that the rules on driving time and rest periods are properly enforced. this is vital since the rules address the fatigue of drivers, which is one of the main causes of accidents involving heavy-duty vehicles. tacographs also help ensure that the rules cannot be abused, resulting in distortion of competition between road transport operators. driving-time rules are now observed better since digital tachographs were introduced in 2006. operators also have less paperwork than they did with the analogue tachograph, but reports indicate that levels of fraud and the administrative costs of using tachographs are still high. last year the commission proposed ways to tackle these two problems. this would be done by introducing a new ‘smart tachograph’ using satellite navigation and radio communication functions, accompanied by better rules on inspections, workshops, training of enforcement officers and sanctions. i am very glad that the report from the committee on transport and tourism prepared by ms ţicău supports and reinforces the commission proposal. the commission welcomes more than half of the 120 amendments adopted by the transport committee, as they clarify or strengthen its original proposal. they include, for instance, the amendments to strengthen the sanctions regime, to improve training of enforcers and to clarify the rules on the tachonet it system and on the liability of employers. the commission can also accept in principle another quarter of the amendments. the most important of these are on the merger of driver cards with the driving licence, asking for a more detailed analysis before the implementation of such a merger; and, secondly, on moving definitions from the current annex into the main body of the legislation. i would, however, caution against applying full codecision to non-essential elements which may need regular updates, and requiring member states to equip all their control authorities with the devices needed to read the information transmitted by the new radio communication function of the smart tachograph. this is good but costly, and i would recommend a step-by-step approach. there remain 13 amendments that are of concern to the commission. the most important are the amendments numbered 116 to 120, which would result in changes to the existing social rules and legislation on driving times – regulation 561/2006. these amendments would create a derogation for craftsmen driving within a radius of 150 km of their base. this is a substantial increase from the 100 km set down in the commission’s proposal and it would negatively affect road safety. in practice it would encourage many drivers to drive six hours or more on a daily basis without any control on their driving time.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. these social rules are very much needed to ensure that road safety is guaranteed, but also to create a level playing field and fair competition between companies. to achieve that, more control is needed. technology is helping us do that. it is evolving very rapidly and the new digital tachograph which we are now going to describe in legislation will enable remote control which will of course be much more controllable than today. today the truck has to be pulled over before a check can be made. that alone would be an incredible advance. but there are of course other aspects which the rapporteur has mentioned in her report and which we must support. first of all, we must open the debate on the scope of the directive. we want to move towards a situation where all professional drivers are checked and the proposal to go from 3.5 tonnes to 2.8 tonnes is a step in the right direction. on the other hand, we must be more flexible with regard to the exceptions. i agree that it is not the plumber or the electrician who should be checked. that must be clearly defined and the limit of 100 km seems to me to be very reasonable. i'm gonna leave it at that. thank you and good luck to the rapporteur.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their work. it's a technically difficult dossier. i would also have liked to have had a little more time for debate and discussion. the tachograph simply measures the driving and resting times of the truck driver. so it was a first important priority for me to say who it should apply to. and i think that leaving it up to the member states to decide which craft is excluded and under what conditions was not the best solution. i'm from a border area. with this system, the roofing contractor will have to drive with a tachograph in one state, not one or two kilometres further, and a few kilometres further on. the one who drives 100 miles to do his job and has a ticket writer can't come home at night. and that is why i believe that european legislation must also take account of people's everyday lives. the scheme is intended to apply to professional drivers. all non-professional drivers are to be excluded. the second is the deadlines. we currently have two models of tachograph and are now proposing a third. i therefore suggested that we first set a deadline for the application of one model and then that the commission may adjust the deadlines for a second model. the past has often shown that when we wait for technology, we sometimes set too tight deadlines. it's supposed to be a little easier to solve. the last point is the international area. i know it's about social conditions, working conditions. but what do the citizens expect from our legislation? not that we're saying it's not time to change something. if, as in my region, people spend nights and weekends in their lorries for weeks on end and then perhaps go home, and if these people are employed because they are paid about a third of the wage that is normally paid in the region, then this is not the european transport area that we wanted! we wanted better quality, we wanted better pay and better conditions. i think it is time to change that, even though it was not the aim of this directive to deal with these aspects. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the amendments we have proposed, madam president, relate firstly to the fact that we simply want to take the craft workers out of the scope and thus include them in article 3 and secondly to the 2.8 tonnes: we are well aware that certain operators have set up their fleets in such a way that they prefer to use those who do not need a driver's recorder in their trucks for their professional drivers. so when it comes to safety for professional drivers, i have no problem with the 2.8 tonnes. but if it is a question of avoiding harassment of the craftsman, then you can also support my amendment, which simply takes it out altogether. i would prefer not to limit the mileage at all, but that would come at a later stage. we have done something for safety, for flexibility, but also for the european transport area as a whole.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues (rule 150).
that item is closed.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by marit paulsen, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the strategy for the protection and welfare of animals for the period 2012-2015 (2012/2043(ini)) (a7-0216/2012).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by dieter-lebrecht koch and olga sehnalová, of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the committee on transport and tourism, on the ecall system: a new '112' service for citizens [2012/2056(ini) ] (a7-0205/2012).
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let us first of all welcome a number of decisions that have been taken by the european council. first of all, i think we should welcome the growth package that has finally been decided and the necessary provision for tightening the budget in the union. there is also the decision on a single banking supervisor. i should say: finally a decision. you will remember that two years ago the member states and the council refused to go in that direction, as parliament requested at that time. the commission advised caution and said that we could do it later. well, it is later now and i think it is a good decision. the only thing we should ask is that, if we create this new agency, we do not split it across three member states. it has to be a real single supervisor with powers to close down banks in any member state, and with no exception. mr van rompuy, i will not discuss the third decision: more flexibility for the efsf and the esm. apparently a number of member states today have another opinion – mainly finland. my question to you is what has been really decided now? is finland’s opinion and statement the right one? is it necessary to have unanimity or not? i think this is a key question. why is it a key question? because already today, if you look at the markets, you can see the effect of this attitude. the spanish spreads had gone up again to 491 by mid-morning – that is almost 500 basic points – so we are not out of this crisis. the main thing that we did in this european council was to successfully borrow time again. how much i do not know. is it days, is it weeks, is it months? but we must use this time in a good way. why? not like previous occasions, not like in december 2011 for example, when the european central bank performed two operations and injected eur 1 trillion into the banking system. some of us thought that the crisis was behind us, that the crisis was over. well i think that we wasted time at the beginning of this year. apart from the fiscal compact no structural solution was found to the crisis at that time. so my message today is that we should not waste time again. is it really necessary to wait for an interim report in october and then for a final report by the end of the year? this is not an interim crisis. we need fundamental action now. i think it is better not to wait until october and then wait until the end of the year to take action. we need to use the positive spillover from friday’s decisions to launch directly the economic and political union we desperately need so we can show the outside world – our friends in the g8 and the g20 and the markets – that we have learned our lesson. so action is needed and, mr barroso, action means concrete legislation. my plea to you is very clear. we now have a window of opportunity only of a few weeks, not more than that – and if finland continues in this way, it will even be destroyed within a few hours. we must come forward, before september, with a concrete legislative package. i agree with mr daul that we have until september to do that and to put a legislative package on the table with three elements: firstly, a real banking union – not only supervision but also a deposit guarantee scheme and a joint resolution fund; secondly, a real integrated budgetary framework, including eurobills and a redemption fund – this crisis is not over if there is not at least the beginning of a redemption fund and a partial mutualisation of the debt; and, finally, democratic transparency and accountability. so, mr barroso, use your right of initiative. do not wait until the end of the year. put this legislative package on the table for the council and for parliament. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, mr daul, i would simply like to make it clear that it cannot be said that spain and italy are not making efforts. they do. but the problem is very simple. mr monti may take any measure and set up any economy, but half of his effort is eaten up by the bondholders and by interest rates which are and will continue to be around 6 or 7%. (applause) i would like to thank this problem will only be solved if the council recognizes the need for partial debt mutualisation through eurobonds and the debt amortisation fund, as stated in mr van rompuy's note and as yet not accepted by the council, and if the commission tabled a draft to that effect. i do not see any head of government who is capable and has the courage to say 'no' to such a proposal once the commission has put it before us and it has a beneficial effect on interest rates and markets.
mr president, welcome to the blackmail zone, better known as the eurozone, but officially now a no-growth zone. the latest european summit was appalling. what we saw was, as the german press wrote, a brutal act of blackmail. apparently european integration is all about money while prostituting the word ‘solidarity’. what we perceived was mr monti acting as a mob leader to get at easy money. blackmailing germany is not difficult. just refer to the past and their knees will weaken. the esm treaty was changed, although many national parliaments had ratified it. so what is now applicable law? we simply do not know. the esm treaty is not a treaty, but is it a piece of paper, perhaps waiting for the shredder, or is it, mr van rompuy, a piece of scrap paper? are you the scrap-paper president? mr monti made a fatal mistake. he galvanised the sentiment of resentment in northern europe. people feel fooled, robbed and they will resist. look at finland and holland. in mediterranean europe we spread the feeling that there is access to more money, so the pressure for reform will drop and people will ask: why should we suffer if fresh money is on the way? there is only one solution and it is regaining competitiveness. there is no substitute for it and no short cut to a transfer union. the more you push for a transfer union, the sooner the euro will break up. finally, where are our colleagues from the german christian democrats? i see hardly anyone from the cdu/csu. mr pöttering has already disappeared. where are they? they should defend their country, but they are absent. the german press will know. they will write it about it so that everybody knows in germany.
i got three points. i should like to begin by congratulating the president of the european council, together with the president of the commission of the eurogroup and the president of the european central bank, on the vision paper on economic and monetary union which they have prepared together for this summit. the fact that this note opts for a full banking union, a budgetary union and an economic union is excellent, because it shows that you are working together towards a lasting solution and it is only that way that can remove the centrifugal force that has been putting too much pressure on our system for years. secondly, i would also like to congratulate the president of the european council - but he will be told - on the concrete results of the summit. because that is what has made this summit the summit of renewed ambition, ambition which can lay a new foundation of confidence. the country-specific recommendations, the pact for job growth and, above all, a single supervisory framework and the decision to break the vicious circle between banking problems and national budgets, give hope. i hope, mr president, that we can now work with the same ambition, conviction and speed on a road map towards a genuine economic and monetary union and a strong european union, because we both need that. thirdly, i have noticed - and some have already mentioned this - that the president-in-office of the council is very concerned about democratic legitimacy. i thank you, mr president, for your comments on this matter and i have nothing further to add. the president will be aware that we are a loyal partner and a good ally in the process of building a strong europe, solid and responsible from within and strong from without, to defend our values globally.
in writing. the most important element in president van rompuy's report is probably found in paragraph 4: we will only be able to make the eu stronger if we have the support of the people. today, that support is crumbling in high-speed rail. that's why shock therapy is necessary. the most efficient answer we can give to this is the direct election of the president of the european commission. that would be a big step forward. because from stockholm to nicosia the europeans will be able to choose the president of europe themselves. let's go for this. and preferably as early as 2014. it would unleash a lot of emotions, positive and no doubt negative as well. but it certainly won't leave the people indifferent. and that is essential in a democracy.
in writing. as long as no harm to the interests of the union is detected and as long as this change of status meets the needs and specificities of the territory of saint-barthélemy, the links with the european union remain intact: there is no reason to reject the rapporteur's text. in addition, this change in status will enable saint barthélemy to strengthen its relations with regional actors, in particular the overseas countries and territories, the acp countries and the outermost regions of the caribbean, and thus contribute to a better dissemination of the european model and values.
in writing. this new directive, the result of two years of difficult negotiations with the member states, aims to create a 'global and integrated' european railway area, whether in freight or in international passenger transport. the aim is to increase the share of rail in freight transport and to bring down prices for passengers. the new rules require that transmission operators and network operators must keep separate accounts to ensure that any transfers of public funds between the two entities, even if they are within a holding company, are transparent and thus avoid putting any private operators at a disadvantage. all operators, public or private, will have to benefit from the same tariffs and access conditions for a given network, whether it be railways and service facilities (maintenance workshops, stations). finally, the allocation of railway sleepers to operators will include incentives to upgrade bonus/malus equipment to reduce noise and to equip trains with the european control system for maximum safety. the text does not concern internal links within the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the legislative resolution to revise the tachograph legislation in depth, in order to prevent fraud, improve the working conditions of professional drivers and, consequently, ensure greater safety on the roads. this opens up the voice to electronic rather than manual use of the device, heralding the advent of the so-called "intelligent" tachograph by 2020. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. satellite technology will allow remote controls to be carried out and only suspicious trucks to be targeted. the smart tachograph is expected to save road transport companies the equivalent of 515 million in administrative costs per year.
in writing. although some of the aims of this text are interesting, it is not acceptable since its two essential amendments have been simply thrown out. we must represent the citizens as best we can: the rejection of this report was therefore obvious.
in writing. we had to vote for this text and for a sense of responsibility for our consumption pattern. it is now clear that a considerable number of water bodies in the union will not be in 'good condition' in 2015 due to long-standing or more recent problems. a directive dated 2000 provides a 'framework' for regulating water management and sets sustainability objectives to be achieved by 2015. the report seeks to analyse the current state of implementation of eu legislation, highlighting successes but also the main problems to be overcome to improve it. i am glad to see that many of my colleagues have responded positively to this text.
in writing. − road safety is one of the cornerstones of european transport policy. the in-vehicle ecall system can make an important contribution to reducing the number of road fatalities. this system automatically sends an alert to the rescue services as soon as the vehicle is involved in a serious accident. i am in favour of the ecall system, because it not only saves lives, but also reduces the severity of injuries caused by accidents by providing immediate assistance. especially when eu citizens travel to another country, they often do not know exactly where they are and do not always speak the language. this automatic signal from ecall is therefore particularly useful, as the information on the exact location of the vehicle is also received by the emergency services. ecall should require an eu-wide interoperable application. if each country provides its own system and can only communicate with its own vehicles, ecall cannot be fully exploited.
in writing. the affirmative vote was a foregone conclusion. we want all new cars sold in europe to have this feature by 2015. it would automatically trigger in the event of an accident, even if the driver is unconscious. it could also be operated manually. this could prove valuable, especially in rural areas. according to the figures, 2,500 lives could be saved every year. the french group psa has already taken the train.
in writing. the economic crisis in the european union, accompanied by low growth rates and high unemployment rates, has increased economic, social and investment disparities between member states. the regions lagging behind in development have and will continue to receive substantial eu funding to attract potential investors. but solidarity requires growth. social achievements are the result of a successful economy. social protection can only be the consequence of work and responsibility. investment must be at the heart of our european policies. we need an economic government that implements aggressive policies, producing investments that will have a future. the single market, a key driver of economic growth, must be completed, including through the full implementation of energy and services legislation. we must dare to restructure certain sectors. we must encourage more flexible use of the structural funds, encourage entrepreneurship and provide access to finance. we must resist the sirens of economic protectionism and the appeasement of a false sense of comfort. if we need competitiveness, we need solidarity.
in writing. to help democracy and prevent conflict in the union's neighbourhood. that is the main reason why i have agreed to this resolution. but we cannot accept anything: that is why, in order to create free trade areas in the long term, we require these countries to align their national legislation with the union's standards, allowing us to make 'specific recommendations' to each of them.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, i have a question for mr fjellner. i did not want to intervene at this stage of the debate. that is a question i might have wanted to ask the commissioner, mr de gucht. he will probably have the opportunity to answer me later, after the debate. but to invoke today the fact of waiting for the opinion of the court of justice is a delaying manoeuvre and, moreover, i would like to know whether you think it is normal that the commissioner has asked for the opinion of the court of justice after negotiating the treaty? is it right to ask at the end of the process whether the treaty is in conformity with other laws, particularly those on individual freedoms?
madam president, i would like to reassure mr caspary right away. no, the socialist and democratic group has never changed its position. i would like to remind you that at the beginning of this parliament, when one of our colleagues, kader arif, was coordinator in the committee on international trade, he led our group, with others, to table a resolution here warning against acta because we thought it had been badly negotiated, full of ambiguities, etc., which was defended today by david martin. this resolution was put to the vote in parliament and it was not passed, it is a non-resolution. he missed votes. the warning at the beginning of this parliament has never been heard in this parliament. what happened since then? civil society has been involved. we've had emails, email campaigns, discussions, forums, etc. and all of a sudden, our members who hadn't voted against acta at the beginning of this legislature are probably going to vote against acta today. that's interesting, though. we have had a similar case: software patenting, with the rocard report, i believe, two legislatures ago, was swept away by the power of civil society. when civil society gets involved, when direct democracy gets involved and is combined with parliamentary democracy, we have a very interesting equation that allows us to overcome problems. that is what is happening today and that is what is interesting, my dear friends. when the citizen understands, he moves. it's up to us to make him understand. now we are against counterfeiting. there is still a long way to go in this area, but i look forward to a rejection of acta tomorrow with an alliance between parliament and civil society. this will be marked with a white stone.
mr president, the reasons for rejecting this treaty are many and have been mentioned throughout the debate. moreover, if there is an international agreement on counterfeiting without china and without india, it is as if a maritime treaty could be signed between countries that have no access to the sea. finally, it is unacceptable to endorse a vague treaty whose authors deliberately denied all democratic organs at the beginning of the procedure. all these reasons make me wonder, too. why has the epp group, in particular this morning, through the votes of several of its members, again counted on a postponement of the vote on acta tomorrow? it's called a therapeutic perseverance. mr fjellner was an example of that today. the epp group replied to me on twitter this morning that it wants to hear the opinion of the court of justice. i replied - but i anticipated this earlier - that it was comical, strange, even puzzling that commissioner de gucht should have questioned the legality of the treaty he had signed by asking the court for its opinion a posteriori. that is why we shall vote against this treaty tomorrow, which is unfortunately the wrong answer to a good question, namely that of counterfeiting. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. while the main objective of acta, namely the protection of intellectual property rights, should be supported, the treaty is so vaguely worded that it allows for a wide range of interpretations. this threatens the freedom of ordinary internet users and does not sufficiently guarantee the protection of consumer privacy. moreover, the effectiveness of this convention is seriously in doubt, since the countries which produce the greatest number of counterfeit products have not signed it. my group believes that the commission should first come forward with a proposal for the revision of the e-commerce directives. we are also now working on a proposal ourselves which should create a new framework for enforceable intellectual property rights which can protect authors and artists, encourage innovation, but at the same time also be consumer-oriented and in line with civil liberties and privacy. i hope the commission will learn from this debacle. the european parliament has been a full-fledged co-legislator since the treaty of lisbon, including when it comes to international agreements. the commission is therefore right to ask the legislator for a negotiating mandate before starting negotiations. the time for turning parliament's arms is clearly over, after swift and now acta.
i am very grateful to you, mr president, commissioner, for the clarifications you have given us. i think you have tried to answer our questions very seriously and i was about to ask you whether the commission would undertake not to recognise, under article 9 of the ccaa, the appointment of an israeli authority which would not exclude the settlements from the territory for which that authority is competent. i think you have answered and you will be very vigilant about the appointment of this authority. i want to believe you on this and on all the others. i have two regrets, one is worry and one is bitterness. the first concerns the control mechanisms. if we, the european parliament, agree to the acaa, how will we be informed of the various checks that the commission will certainly carry out and how can we ensure that this is done? i do not have an answer to that, but i am sure that it will be brought up again in due course. the second thing is bitterness, even anger. i share the view of my colleague, mr moreira, and i think that in this case, which is certainly a pharmaceutical case, the question of human rights, the question of the political context, has not been raised or at least is not being raised here. it is huge. this famous human rights clause in our trade agreements, are we sure that it is being respected today? i have lost this battle, i admit it, and i will bow. i won't bring it up again. i am very sensitive to the agreements i have made with elmar brok on this and therefore i will vote what needs to be voted. but i still think it is crazy and insane in this european parliament that we can be concerned about what is happening in the settlement expansion, soon, and at the same time not bother to vote for a trade agreement which will certainly bring us a lot, as well as israel, but which, i fear, will bring nothing to the palestinians.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr fjellner tells us that it is medicines. at present, yes, and the occupied territories are not producing any at the moment. but we all know that what we're being asked to do in the ccaa is a certification framework, and today it's drugs. tomorrow other annexes may be opened for which parliament's assent will no longer be required. so we have to go further and it could indeed be other products that would be made in the colonies. is mr fjellner aware of this?
mr president, i should like to say a word about the procedure. i have been following this debate, commissioner, since it has been in the hands of our parliament, since march 2010. two and a half years, then, of postponements, delays, questions, games of ping-pong, in short, de facto, of blocking the agreement, including the last questions addressed to you. no drugs are produced in the territories and we know that. these are purely rhetorical questions. this parliamentary obstruction - one could even say it is a blunder - is unworthy of our parliament, which championed transparency on acta less than an hour ago and which has been heard demanding the same transparency from the council all the time, as was also expressed this morning. some people are waging a real shadow war against the acaa agreement here, in all opacity and behind the scenes. whatever some people may think of this agreement, i do not think it is their place to prevent others from speaking out on the matter as well. i hope, commissioner, that your very precise and detailed answers will have reassured the inta committee and our plenary that they are no longer hostages to this matter and that they can finally express themselves in spirit and conscience on this matter, whether they are for or against it. and this is about an agreement - it is worth recalling - which concerns the free trade of pharmaceutical products and therefore the health of the citizens of the world.
on behalf of the alde group we all know that cash is increasingly being replaced by electronic forms of payment in our society, and of course access to a basic bank account is essential. many things become a problem in our society if they are not accessible. receiving wages, paying pensions, paying energy bills, purchasing products or services all prove very difficult if one cannot have a basic bank account. access to this payment service is therefore crucial, especially for vulnerable and highly mobile consumers and people who are increasingly moving between different countries throughout the european union today. all too often, for example, erasmus students abroad, frontier workers and pensioners living part-time in another country are excluded from such essential and basic paid services. i am therefore glad that we are increasing the pressure on the member states with the european parliament. we also advocate that the consumer who does not obtain a bank account in a member state will have access to a basic banking service in the member state where he resides or exercises certain functions. i think it is also very important that if member states do not act, we should call for a binding european legislative proposal before january 2013. the european parliament is in fact following in part what the belgian government did some time ago, which has already provided a legislative framework since 2003 that has helped to make basic payment services available to more people. the information to be disseminated around these basic payment services is important. it needs to be transparent about how people can access it. the commission has announced that it will examine various systems, but of course the basic banking service must also be broad enough to be fully inclusive and to be able to make the most basic payments. i am glad that, if a legislative framework were to be established, both the member states and the european institutions would ensure that this basic service is not misused. access must be broad, but of course a basic payment service cannot unfairly compete with a regular banking service. i am therefore glad that the member states will soon be obliged to provide access to these basic banking services for everyone.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in europe - as has been said - 30 million citizens do not currently have a bank account. so let's be clear, banking exclusion causes and exacerbates the spiral of social exclusion. the consequences are extremely serious. the banks clearly have a share of responsibility in this situation. information and support from them are not effective enough. or rather, the banking system is extremely efficient for those who can afford it and extremely exclusive for all those who can't. the solution to be explored, i think, has certainly been mentioned: it is probably to oblige banks to open a personal account, which allows the most basic transactions to be carried out, such as receiving money, especially payments. there is also a need for education for people who do not have a bank account, who do not use it and who do not think they need it. it would not be pointless to try to change behaviour from this point of view.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome this debate tonight on access to basic banking services, services which must be provided at the lowest possible cost, or even free of charge, as a prerequisite for their accessibility. today, almost 30 million people in europe lack access to basic banking services. how can such persons be removed from the disfellowshiping? it was on the basis of this question that i introduced a recommendation on the subject in my report on the fight against poverty, adopted in 2011, which stressed that the inability of people in poverty to access basic banking services is a significant barrier to their reintegration into the labour market and society. an initiative is therefore essential to combat exclusion and to restore the confidence of our citizens. let us stop allowing the banks to contribute to social exclusion!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, before we talk about substance, we must talk about the technique and adapt the decision-making tool, because, as paolo de castro, george lyon and luis capoulas santos have said before me, the council tends to avoid delegated acts, which limits the power of parliament and is therefore contrary to the spirit of the lisbon treaty. following the vote in the committee on agriculture, rural development and fisheries, parliament's plenary must reaffirm the power that the treaty gives us, which is only fair when we talk about the only integrated policy of the european union for the last fifty years, since this is the anniversary this year, which still today mobilises almost 40% of the budget of the european union. by giving parliament more powers, the lisbon treaty creates a new balance in favour of democracy. we can no longer tolerate the 'obstruction' of the council - it must be called that - which seems to be retreating into its privileges of the 'old regime', before the treaty of lisbon. this cannot go on much longer and i welcome the position we are going to take in this parliament, but also the position you have taken, commissioner, because i think that politically, in this fight, you must clearly be on our side in the pure and simple application of the lisbon treaty.
mr president, i should like to say welcome to president christofias. president christofias, i will address you as one of the 27, the 27 members of the european council. when i listened to you and to mr van rompuy yesterday, and then when i looked at the day-to-day actions of the council, i had the impression that we have a case of split personality here at best, and at worst, a case of duplicity. for instance, when the council says: ‘we want a budget union’, it then fights tooth and nail against a serious budget with own resources for its own commission. when the council says: ‘we want a fiscal union’, i then see the council every day fighting tooth and nail against every form of tax harmonisation. the dogma of tax competition is still very much there, and at the same time the council still pays lip service to the fight against tax havens. last week i witnessed the council stubbornly refusing any serious restrictions on venture capital funds being domiciled or investing in tax havens – and that was last week. probably the fact that a number of member states are tax havens or harbour tax havens must have something to do with that. the situation is similar when the council stresses the need for more democracy and democratic accountability. look at mr von rompuy’s paper of last week, saying that we need to bridge the democratic gap in europe. yes, good – and you are all full of praise for parliament. but when i see your actions, every single action tries to circumvent the european parliament. when you set up a rescue fund, it is intergovernmental – parliament has nothing to do with that. when we work on economic governance, you produce a fiscal compact that circumvents the european parliament. when you want to set up a banking union, it is again done in a way that circumvents the powers of the european parliament. so my question to you is: which face of the council are we going to see in the next six months – dr jekyll or mr hyde?
i welcome the cyprus presidency of the european union, especially in view of the specific geographical and historical importance of cyprus. it is worth emphasizing here. cyprus is the only member state of the european union whose part of its territory is occupied by a military force of a candidate country, turkey. turkey refuses even to recognise the republic of cyprus and to fulfil its obligations under the customs union with the eu. ships and aircraft from cyprus are still being refused entry to turkish ports and airports, in contravention of the provisions of the ankara protocol. this is a serious scandal, not only on the part of turkey, but also on the part of the european union itself, which has always warned the citizens that it would stop the negotiations on turkey's accession. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the turkish authorities are able to comply with the obligations imposed on them. well, what else is there to do? the turkish prime minister has already said that he does not accept the cyprus presidency of the eu and that he would freeze the accession negotiations himself. if the eu does not take the initiative to put an end to this turkish brutality, it will only prove that the eu in its present form no longer has any credibility and no longer deserves any respect from the citizens.
for the epp group it is, of course, a very vain wish, but the commission should have shown great modesty in its work programme for 2013 in the first place, and even made a mea culpa here and there. the financial and economic crisis that is striking our continent in a very specific way, more than any other continent, is a reality that immediately puts to the waste all the fairy tales and all the hooray-sayings about - and i quote - "the organisation of the world's most efficient economy" or the land of milk and honey that the euro would create. the fact that the european commission is now suggesting that there should be a substantial increase in the eu budget in 2013 is unacceptable. we all know dozens or hundreds of examples of the total waste of taxpayers' money by the european institutions themselves, apart from the fact that european money is by definition always spent less well. we are talking about completely useless advisory bodies and agencies, about policy areas where europe does not really add value, about a subsidy policy full of abuses, about mega-funds, about foolish euro-friendly propaganda, and even about the gigantic waste of european development aid policy. let the commission finally come up with a work programme that gets to the heart of the matter and throws the ballast overboard and focuses solely on creating the conditions that will enable economic growth and strong competitiveness for our european companies.
mr president, i voted against the acta draft, as did the majority of my liberal and democratic colleagues here in the european parliament. this does not mean, of course, that the protection of intellectual property is not still a cornerstone of liberal doctrine, quite the contrary. but the main mistake of the initiators of acta was to think "global", when, obviously, we don't protect a song or a movie from illegal downloading in the same way that we protect citizens from, for example, counterfeit medicines. i would say that there are three lessons to be learned for tomorrow, because a global agreement against counterfeiting remains imperative in our eyes. to say no today, as we have done, is to hear the call of civil society and to demand more cooperation - this has been said and repeated - between the commission and parliament. to say no today is also to call for the european union to speak with one voice for fair remuneration for creators. it is worth noting that five member states, including germany and the netherlands, are not even signatories to the agreement. and finally, to say no today is to call for the most transparent and broadest possible negotiation with china and india, the countries most concerned in the world with counterfeit goods, a counterfeit - need i remind you? - which costs europe 100 000 jobs every year.
in writing. russia is, as i have already said, one of the most important partners of the european union in many respects. the numerous political and economic agreements signed with russia prove that the european union regards it as a key partner on the international scene. russia is the eu's third most important trading partner. we have just adopted three resolutions, all on trade agreements with russia, which are favourable to european union companies. the agreement is largely due to russia's soon-to-be-accession to the world trade organization, which will facilitate greater access to the russian market. by becoming a member of the wto, the russian federation will reduce its customs duties from an average of 9.5% at present to around 6% by 2015.
in writing. my vote on mr susta's text is a 'yes but'. the agreement should provide more favourable conditions for european union companies. it is part of a set of three trade agreements which do not preclude further commitments by the union and which should even improve the conditions of producers who depend on raw materials from russia. the trade in services agreement opens up new opportunities for eu shipping agencies looking to establish themselves in russia. it also grants preferential access to staff from european service companies who are going to work in russia with a view to setting up a business there. it provides for a minimum quota of 16 000 work permits per year for this purpose. but it is important that russia fulfils its commitments and ensures that workers' rights are respected: the credibility of the european union is at stake.
in writing. my vote on mr zalewski's text is a 'yes but'. the agreement should provide more favourable conditions for european union companies. it is part of a set of three trade agreements which do not preclude further commitments by the union and which should even improve the conditions of producers who depend on raw materials from russia. the agreement on automotive components protects european automotive parts manufacturers affected by russian measures which will remain in force even after russia's accession to the wto. these measures provide incentives for foreign car manufacturers to relocate to russia and could disadvantage russian imports of foreign automotive components. under the agreement, if european exports of automotive parts fell below the 3% threshold per annum, russia would reduce its import duties on these components by a proportionate amount. but it is important that russia fulfils its commitments and ensures that the rights of workers are respected. the credibility of the union is at stake.
in writing. my vote on the text of ines vaidere is a "yes but". the agreement should provide more favourable conditions for european union companies. it is part of a set of three trade agreements which do not preclude further commitments by the union and which should even improve the conditions of producers who depend on raw materials from russia. in its wto accession negotiations, russia agreed to binding export duties on 80% of the raw materials it exports. under the agreement, russia will consult and negotiate with the european union for at least two months before increasing its export duties on a number of products. the agreement provides the most favourable temporary solution for imports of raw materials which are in great need of the union's manufacturers. however, i am bitterly sorry that the commitments made by russia in this agreement are not strong enough. it is therefore necessary to replace it in the near future by a binding treaty on trade in raw materials.
in writing. - president, ladies and gentlemen, counterfeit products are terribly harmful to our economy. the european economy suffers 8 billion euros of damage every year. and it's a disease that unfortunately is increasing exponentially. we also need to stop the fight against piracy online, on the internet. unfortunately, there has been a lot of anxiety and confusion about this. many internet users fear that their internet may be shut down if they download a movie or a cd in the so-called informal circuit. that is not the point. but the perception is different. the fear is widespread, so we have to respond to it. i still do not understand why we are not waiting for the judgment of the highest court in europe to decide on this. this is a missed opportunity, unfortunately. we're throwing the kid and the bath water away. the biggest victim of this situation is the creative sector itself. we'll just leave him to his fate.
in writing. meps rejected the acta treaty by a majority of 478 votes to 39 at the strasbourg plenary session this afternoon. the death of this highly toxic, liberty-killing treaty is the victory of democracy over lobbying, of truth over manipulation. the final nail in the acta coffin is planted: "alea acta est!" signing an international agreement on counterfeiting without china or india was meaningless: it would be like signing a maritime agreement between countries with no access to the sea. finally, it was unacceptable to accept a vague treaty whose authors deliberately denied all democratic institutions and therefore also european citizens. in this sense, this dossier has had the merit of highlighting the european parliament's leading role in defending the interests of the citizen. but beware, acta, even though it brought the wrong answers, it asked the right questions. on the one hand, we must work now on a european legal reform to combat the scourge of counterfeiting, which is harmful to consumers, the economy and job creation. on the other hand, the legislation on intellectual property must be updated.
in writing. continuity of direct payments between the current cap and the reformed cap is a key element which has been achieved, among other things, thanks to the enormous work of the agri committee. for the transitional year 2013, we have introduced special provisions for specific cases, including for the new member states, and payments will therefore also be guaranteed. farmers will thus receive their payments on time, which is reassuring.
in writing. with a view to the trilogue with the council and the commission on the 2013 eu budget, we have, by this vote, given our negotiating team a mandate. normally, the council should have agreed on a common position, at least at technical level, before the trialogue on 9 july. but let me be clear, we are really outraged by the commission's proposal to freeze commitment appropriations in real terms in 2013 in order to solve the problem of the spiral of commitments still to be settled. the additional €360 million foreseen for the iter experimental reactor in the 2013 budget, without using an increase in the mff ceilings, is largely financed at the expense of european research programmes under the 7th framework programme. the commission justifies the cuts by underperformance of these programmes.
in writing. the treatment of animals also varies from farm to farm and from one member state to another. we have already been alerted to this problem by the report on laying hens. since some member states do not apply the current eu legislation on animal protection correctly, there is an urgent need not only for greater vigilance to ensure better application of the current legislation but also for general legislation (framework law) guaranteeing animal welfare. we must fill the gaps, punish the perpetrators... beyond the protection of animals, human health is at stake: by preventing the spread of diseases in animals and improving antimicrobial resistance, the health of consumers is protected. finally, on the economic side, this resolution will help to ensure fair competition between producers and greater transparency.
in writing. i voted in favour of the paulsen report on a european strategy for animal welfare 2012-2015. in a modern, peaceful society, no one can be indifferent to the plight of animals. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of animals and the environment. however, i regret that our parliament is succumbing to the trend of labelling prior stunning (paragraph 49 of the resolution). at present, only two member states, sweden and austria, require stunning before slaughtering an animal, whereas the other member states have opted for dialogue with muslim and jewish religious authorities. defending freedoms is also defending freedom of worship and ancestral traditions. if it is really about reducing animal suffering, then let well-meaning people care about the plight of animals during their lifetime. and if health safety is at stake, then it is the controls in the slaughterhouses that urgently need to be strengthened and not the labels on prepackaged meat.
in writing. there is insufficient pressure on member states to apply eu animal welfare rules. a common strategy for animal welfare was therefore needed in the 27 member states. only one third of the member states are doing well. the majority of farmers adopt attitudes which vary from one farm to another. unfortunately, the system still depends on the use of antibiotics. a definition of what animal welfare really is seems equally important, as free trade is becoming increasingly important in agriculture and we europeans are at the forefront of the animal welfare debate, alongside the united states, canada and australia.
in writing. the aim of this resolution is commendable, it advocates rules on animal welfare which should be implemented in a more satisfactory way. the existing gaps must be filled and the perpetrators punished. these rules also protect human health by preventing the spread of animal-related diseases and antimicrobial resistance.
in writing. the measures taken at the european council are in the right direction. i welcome the significant progress on banking union and the aid given to italy and spain. however, i am afraid that the measures for growth are not yet sufficient. i also welcome the transfer of supervision of euro-zone banks to the ecb. this step towards a banking union was indispensable. i regret, however, that no progress has been made on the question of debt pooling. no progress on the eurobonds. i am convinced that part of the solution lies in the creation of eurobonds. the european union, unlike the states, is not in debt. investors would therefore have preferred to see community debt replacing national public debts. the creation of these long-term securities, which angela merkel rejects, as well as the "euro notes" (short-term securities), would have helped the member states to generate growth.
in writing. the commission needs to adopt legislation without delay to tackle the problem of financial exclusion in order to enable every european citizen to participate in socioeconomic life. this exclusion still affects 10% of europeans. these include the homeless, people with very low incomes, students, people with no credit history and finally, expatriate workers. we wanted to promote the idea of a genuine legal right with this resolution, because equal opportunities and non-discrimination are fundamental principles in our democracies. we also wanted to bring the citizen closer to the single market by allowing him to enjoy its full benefits. from now on, everyone will have access to a basic payment account. it can no longer be refused on the grounds of low income, professional status or debt. this basic account should enable every citizen to carry out all essential payment transactions such as receiving his salary on this account, paying bills or withdrawing cash. this resolution is a major step towards non-discrimination, equal opportunities and greater social inclusion.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report by parliament. we therefore ask the commission to present a proposal for a directive by january 2013 on the basis of a detailed assessment of the situation in the member states. we believe that the future directive should allow all consumers legally resident in the union to have access to a bank account to carry out essential payment transactions, such as receiving a salary or benefits, paying bills or taxes and buying goods and services, both remotely and physically. we also want the accounts to be free of charge or opened at a reasonable cost. each member state should set a ceiling for the annual amount of fees for the opening and use of an account, and the additional fees should be transparent. finally, we suggest that member states should be required to lay down principles for the imposition of penalties in the event of non-compliance with the framework governing basic payment accounts.
for the greens/efa group mr president, it is true that others have said it before me the state of the european union's public finances is such that we obviously must not deprive ourselves of any tool to promote a number of indispensable investments at european level, in the field of transport, energy or broadband. and project bonds are really an objective that we want to support because they are interesting in that respect. it is a pilot phase, and i think that we must set out clearly from the outset the criteria by which we will assess this pilot phase. i would like to draw everyone's attention to two things. the first is the choice of projects. we have indeed tried - and i thank the rapporteur - to introduce more stringent sustainability criteria in the selection of projects, because all infrastructure construction is not necessarily beneficial for the european union and may also create an ecological debt which we will have to pay off one day. so let us be very careful about the quality of the projects we support. secondly, the question of risks. there is an objective financial risk. it is true that we try to minimize it for the public authorities, but it exists. as such, i believe that we must be extremely careful, in the evaluation phase, to assess the means of limiting the financial risk to public finances as much as possible, while guaranteeing a return for the private investor who has invested in this business. i really think that, as much as it is good, useful and necessary to launch this project, it is equally important to set out in advance the criteria against which the pilot phase will be evaluated, before moving on to the generalization of the project. i think it is an important instrument, but one that deserves our full attention, especially in this early phase.
i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and all those who have been involved in this dossier. we are discussing something that has been in the news a lot and that was announced long in advance, the famous project bonds. i think we should support them, because they are a good attempt to channel more private resources into the economy into real investment projects which, in turn, contribute directly and indirectly to economic growth. i am also a little afraid that if we are to achieve our ambitions to, for example, have a transeuropean transport network, we will need a mix of funding sources, and this will be one of them. at the same time, we must also remain modest. we have now set aside eur 230 million to support perhaps two or three projects. that's good, all the little bits help. but - to give one example - if we want to achieve the transeuropean transport network by 2030, we will have to find 500 billion euros to make it happen. these innovative financial instruments must not - and this is important - be an excuse for not making real money available for investment. we must therefore ensure that, in addition to these matters, there are also sufficient appropriations, for example for the cef, so that the various levels of government can also take their responsibilities. but let us go for it anyway.
i think we all know that our european transport network is far from complete and i think it is important to continue investing in those transport networks in the future period through the transeuropean networks and also the connecting europe facility. the project bonds as proposed here are an element of that financing and an important element. we all know that it is becoming more and more difficult for member states to finance large infrastructure projects. we also all know that there is a lot of dormant capital on the sidelines today which makes it very difficult to mobilize capital to invest in the real economy. the project bonds can help to channel that private capital into good infrastructure projects with european added value. the 230 million now being made available is of course only a start, but it will make it possible to finance a number of smaller projects and at the same time to seek answers to a number of technical questions which still exist today with many investors, including credit rating agencies, in order to pave the way and to be able to make the investments in full in a next policy period, also through project bonds. my group therefore fully supports this proposal.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the union, but that we should be concerned about the future of the union. but now i'm looking at what we can still do with the modest means we have at our disposal. all this is "high politics", we have discussed it, you are discussing it in the highest circles, but what more can we do? three weeks ago, i met mr. al labouani, a syrian historical dissident who had been imprisoned for five years. when he left the parliament building at that time, he had returned to damascus and was immediately arrested. it wasn't the first time. in my office five years ago, we were discussing conditions in bashar al-assad's prisons and we were talking about suicide attempts. he said, "that's awful". when asked if he was afraid, he replied: "no, i will not commit suicide!" what touched me deeply when he came back and said to me, "you see, mrs. de keyser, i did not commit suicide and i am living the best part of my life today. i never thought it would be like this! whatever the massacres today, i never imagined in my life that i would see this day in syria". it means that beyond the massacres, beyond the horrors that are happening - i'll talk about it - there is hope in the civilian population today in syria that we cannot let down. this message went straight to my heart and i thought, "what can we do?" i have before me the reports of human rights watch, amnesty international, i have everything that is beginning to be listed on crimes against humanity, on torture today in syria and i do not even dare, mr president, to read one of these testimonies to you because it is beyond comprehension. what i would like to say to you is that we need to prepare for the post-bashar al-assad. we have to argue today, take the evidence. i would also like to ask you and the european union, because...
there is no end to the atrocities in syria and the international community seems to be watching helplessly. i do not know whether we can consider the meeting in geneva last weekend a success. the only real solution seems to be to seek some kind of transitional government with representatives of the current regime and the opposition, because the alternative is, of course, a bloody civil war. but the lack of commitment in the declarations on this is worrying. we need to find a way to bring the regime and the opposition to the table. i also agree 100% with mr brok when he says that it is of course an essential condition for success, for the opposition to succeed, that it speaks with one voice, can describe one vision of the future of syria and can also be reassuring to those who still doubt their support for the regime. so i would ask that we keep up the pressure to get real talk.
the past few months have been exciting times in egypt, with a lot of drama, a lot of tension as well. with presidential elections running in parallel with a debate on a new constitution and thus on the power of that president, with a parliament sent home. now, the conclusion is that an opponent of the military regime has won the elections, but at the same time the military is in control of many areas. i personally think that, despite the difficulties, we should see the positive in these developments. the european union now has the task of contributing to the success of this democratic transition. a particularly important challenge will be to get the country back on its feet economically. tourism is practically collapsing. foreign investment is not coming in and the cash register is empty. i would therefore like to ask what initiative the high representative wishes to take to contribute quickly to a re-start of the economy in egypt, which is also a prerequisite for a successful democratic transition.
in writing. this text is a cornerstone of a europe where justice is respected because it is given the means to do so. we cannot stand by while new cases are being opened and the number of cases left unaddressed is constantly increasing. at the end of 2010, there were 1 300 pending cases, compared to 527 cases handled during the year. in order to lighten the workload of the president of the court and the presidents of the chambers of five judges, other amendments were proposed. the constructive proposals made during the first half of the year were not lacking: the creation of a post of vice-president, the possibility for the presidents of chambers with five judges not to take part in cases sent to the main chamber and the increase of the number of judges to 12. it has been argued that most national and international courts, such as the european court of human rights, have vice-presidents, as far as i know.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, and the outcome must also be positive. the civil service tribunal (cts) has only seven judges. if one of them were to be absent for a long period (for example, sick leave), the functioning of the fpt would be seriously affected. to remedy this problem, it was important to allow the appointment of temporary judges for specialised courts.
in writing. − especially in 'crisis times' it will be seen that these investments are to be considered as 'double' investments. firstly, they will secure or finance jobs in the process of implementation. but these investments also increase the attractiveness and 'accessibility' of europe's regions, which may in effect mean further investment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which provides for a european allocation of eur 230 million in guarantees to support the private issuance of bonds to finance infrastructure projects ('project bonds') related to transport, energy and information technologies. our only chance of reviving the european machine is to attract private investors to mobilizing projects in the transport, energy and information technology sectors. by carrying out projects for the future, by making coherent investments, we are giving a positive image of europe. for some time now, europe has been forced to adopt defensive positions which are difficult for the european citizen to accept. it is therefore high time to do everything possible to prevent the disillusionment.
in writing. i opposed this resolution, which is a particularly unbalanced and burdensome text on the situation in the middle east. i also wonder about the almost monomaniacal obsession of this parliament to denounce the policy of the state of israel. i would like him to denounce with the same fervour the atrocities committed in all corners of the world, particularly in syria and mali: not a word during this session, despite the thousands of deaths caused by the damascus butcher and the destruction, looting and bloody clashes in mali.
in writing. we wanted to send a historic message about the west bank and east jerusalem by voting in favour of the resolution. we are firmly condemning the israeli government's construction and expansion of illegal settlements, which are major obstacles to peace efforts. this vote also reflects a change in the european parliament's position. this is the first time that a message of such force has come from our institution. i am very happy and proud to have taken part in this historic vote. the resolution calls on both sides to resume negotiations for a two-state solution without delay and also seeks to ensure that the eu's control mechanism - the 'technical arrangements' - does not allow israeli settlement products to be imported into the european market under preferential arrangements.
i was also a member of the temporary committee on the cia in this parliament at the time. in view of this experience, we can only be pleased with this new report and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs flautre, on behalf of our group, on the fact that this follow-up report has finally been produced. at the time of the fava report, it was often very difficult for colleagues to know the right approach because of the lack of information on the secret cia detention programme. the report's strength, in my view, was to be found in the formulation of a number of recommendations, such as the establishment of a comprehensive definition of terrorism or the establishment of adequate democratic control of intelligence services. those recommendations were intended to ensure that illegal practices such as enforced disappearances and arbitrary detentions would not be repeated in the future. but what do we determine, five years after the date? that those recommendations have remained dead letter and that no european country has taken account of them. the european union and its member states are still deaf as an east indian to the many calls for transparency about their involvement in the cia programme, despite all the evidence gathered by the european parliament itself, but also by the council of europe, the united nations, the media and organisations such as amnesty international. i hope that after this report parliament will continue to press until there is finally clarity and all the recommendations are implemented. this is absolutely necessary, because the system of arbitrary detention is even more entrenched, particularly in the united states. and guantanamo is still not closed, despite all the promises. the fight against terrorism is necessary, of course, but the balance between the protection of society and the infringement of individual freedoms must be right. respect for human rights is an absolute prerequisite for ensuring the effectiveness of any, and therefore also of european, counter-terrorism policy and, above all, for maintaining the citizens' confidence in the democratic order of the eu. because by uncritically cooperating in that cia programme, the eu has grossly violated that trust. the unconditional use of diplomatic guarantees, the systematic invoking of state secrets and the way in which the intelligence services have assumed the role of judges are contrary to the values on which europe is built, namely the rule of law, human rights and respect for human dignity. my group has therefore been eager to see a strong text condemning these practices. it is only in this way that europe can maintain its moral authority in the world.
mr president, in its second report on this subject, the commission gives a positive assessment of the measures taken in all the member states to guarantee voluntary and unpaid donations of human tissues and cells. it does, however, point out very strongly the dramatic shortage facing a majority of the states. we therefore had to propose improvements and work on these two important and priority areas. i regret that, despite the efforts of the rapporteur, whom i thank here again - but she knows this - a majority of my colleagues do not believe that these intangible principles of free and anonymous treatment must be combined with humanism and humanity, quite simply, and that they must not undermine efforts to overcome this shortage and to meet the desperate expectations of so many patients in the european union, because this is the reality experienced on a daily basis by practitioners and patients, tens of thousands of whom are waiting for a cornea, bone marrow or skin transplant. the liberal and democratic group, which i represent here, which respects - i conclude, mr president - the freedom of research and is concerned about the expectations of these patients, will abstain tomorrow when voting on this resolution.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 september, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by kyriacos triantaphyllides, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on strengthening solidarity in the european union in the field of asylum (2012/2032(ini)) (a7-0248/2012).
the point is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 september, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- the report by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on pharmacovigilance (amending directive 2001/83/ec) (com(2012) 0052 - c7-0033/2012 2012/0025 cod)) (a7-0165/2012), and- the report by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on pharmacovigilance (amending regulation (ec) no 726/2004 (com ((2012) 0051 c7-0034/2012 2012/0023/cod)) (a7-0164/2012).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we shall probably never know the number of deaths attributable to mediator, which is marketed as a treatment for diabetes and is often prescribed, in fact, as an appetite suppressant. in any case, this failure of a system has caused too many victims, at least in france, where it was necessary - as has already been said - to wait until 2009 to withdraw this drug from the market, six years after the same decision was taken in italy and spain. this scandal has obviously served as a catalyst for the revisions we are discussing tonight, revisions that are imperative in light of this widespread but risky practice of marketing over-the-counter medicines. the shortcomings of the legislation we passed in this very house just two years ago are clearly pointed out. the legislative framework is strengthened where necessary. yes, it is essential to require manufacturers to specify the reasons for withdrawing a medicinal product from the market or not renewing its authorization. yes, we must systematically raise the alarm, triggering the emergency procedure when doctors point out that taking the medicine causes side effects in their patients. now we have to be realistic if this health surveillance system is to work effectively. it is up to the national authorities and the european agency in london to monitor the commercial players in the sector more closely and to be more independent of them.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 september, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
marine fuel contains on average 2700 times more sulphur than diesel for trucks. ships therefore contribute up to 30% of sulphur dioxide emissions in the north sea countries. efforts we are making on land are increasingly threatened to be undone by rising shipping emissions. people with asthma and other lung diseases are particularly affected by high sulphur concentrations in the air, which account for some 50 000 premature deaths in the eu. estimated costs for this switchover (between €2.6 billion and €11 billion) are far outweighed by the healthcare cost savings of around €30 billion. north-west europe wins twice with this. the channel between britain and the north sea coast is one of the busiest shipping lanes in the world and because of our location we experience a lot of the negative impact of shipping emissions there. in addition, millions of europeans live in the immediate vicinity of the major ports. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's ports are not affected by the crisis. the need to use the more expensive low-sulphur fuels is thus less of a competitive disadvantage. at the same time, further efforts are needed to increase shore-side electricity in ports and to convert lng (liquid natural gas) to ships, which have a significantly lower environmental impact.
in writing. i welcome the vote on tuesday in favour of a european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) intervention for danish workers. almost €6.4 million will be spent on support and training programmes for the 550 danish workers made redundant at the odense steel shipyard and four of its suppliers and downstream producers. this sector had been hit hard by asian competition. the co-financing of local authorities, an obligation under the operation of the egf, will amount to eur 3.4 million.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. it is only right that we should make a financial contribution to the direct redundancies at odense steel shipyard. these redundancies represent 2% of the local workforce. the closure of the shipyard, which is added to the indirect job losses, is another economic, but also and above all social, tragedy.
in writing. the european parliament has given its approval to the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help spanish workers. following the opinion of the european commission (june 2012) and that of the parliament's committee on budgets (july 2012), we approved these aids by a very large majority, totalling more than eur 7.7 million. at the end of 2011, spain applied for egf support for 320 redundancies in small construction companies in the region of aragon. the reason: the sector was particularly affected by the financial crisis and the subsequent recession. the region of aragon will contribute €700,000 to support programmes for new jobs. i'm glad to hear it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. unemployment has risen dramatically in aragon. at the end of 2011, the number of unemployed registered with public employment agencies was approaching 100 000, of which 15% had been made redundant in the construction sector. in addition, this same region of aragon had already been hit hard by previous collective redundancies. it is also europe's role to support, wherever it can, the victims, who are still too many, of the crisis.
in writing. − with this new directive, we are taking a big step forward in achieving the europe 2020 climate targets. this is not only good for further reducing co2 emissions; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new energy efficiency legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new energy efficiency legislation. better information on energy bills and initiatives by energy suppliers to save 1.5 per cent of energy each year will encourage us all to be more conscious about energy use. the member states will have to set the right example. 3% of central government buildings will need to be renovated annually to make them more energy efficient. this will certainly also give impetus to employment. the long-term strategies for the renovation of residential and commercial buildings to be drawn up by the member states will also contribute to this. this energy efficiency directive could have been more ambitious, i admit. it's a compromise. the job is definitely not done. but what is certain is that we are on the right track to a better environment, more jobs and less energy dependence.
in writing. on tuesday, we voted by a very large majority for a directive which should enable europe to improve its energy efficiency by around 15% by the end of the decade. the stakes were enormous! the text, which will have to be transposed into national law by the beginning of 2014, requires member states to renovate 3% of public buildings every year in order to achieve energy efficiency (note, however, that under pressure from several countries and given the current state of public funds in europe, municipal and regional administrative buildings which represent 12% of offices in europe will not be subject to this obligation). in contrast, european energy suppliers will have to take measures to reduce their customers' consumption by 1.5% each year between 2014 and 2020. the directive also requires member states to adopt national energy efficiency plans which will be submitted to the european commission. if these plans are not ambitious enough, the european executive will then be able to impose binding measures on them as early as 2014.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. we have fought on three main ideas in particular. all measures to reach 20% must be binding, unless all member states set themselves binding national targets equivalent to 20% and this will allow for more flexibility in the measures. 2. the all member states should develop a 2050 roadmap for buildings, addressing, inter alia, social housing and reducing energy poverty. 3. the all publicly owned buildings must undergo a 2.5% annual major renovation (representing energy savings of at least 70%).
in writing. i voted to waive immunity. the polish prosecutor had requested it following an alleged violation of the polish code of criminal procedure and the road traffic act in connection with a road traffic accident in 2011 in poland in which jarosław leszek wałęsa was involved and seriously injured. he himself, wishing to clarify the situation, had explained that he wanted to see his immunity lifted.
in writing. we voted for the waiver of the immunity of mrs birgit collin-langen. the main prosecutor requested it in connection with the proceedings concerning an alleged offence. mrs collin-langen did not object to this, wishing to settle the matter as quickly as possible.
in writing. on the occasion of the painful 11th anniversary of the attacks on the twin towers in new york, the european parliament reviewed the question of the cia's transport and illegal detention of prisoners in certain european countries (particularly lithuania, poland and romania) and called on these member states to shed light on the cia's secret detention programmes on european soil, implemented in the wake of the events of 11 september 2001, and on the human rights violations committed in this context. in other words, it is to investigate the possible existence of secret prisons or facilities on their territory where people have been detained under the cia's secret rendition program. it is clear that there are still areas of shadow. the resolution thus adopted calls on the commission to create, by the end of 2012, a framework to shed light on these actions.
in writing. we voted in favour of this text. we have once again condemned the us-led cia programme of interstate transfers and secret detention. indeed, many human rights violations have been reported, including cases of illegal and arbitrary detention, torture and other ill-treatment, violations of the principle of non-refoulement and enforced disappearances.
in writing. we voted on tuesday in favour of a non-legislative resolution on solidarity between member states in the field of asylum. the resolution deals with future arrangements for the resettlement of refugees in the eu and with the strengthening of the eu's asylum policy. in particular, we called on the european commission to include in its next legislative proposal introducing a permanent intra-eu resettlement system a european distribution key for the resettlement of persons enjoying international protection. the system would take the best account of the interests of the beneficiaries, the prospects for integration and objective indicators such as gdp, population and area of the member states. this european distribution key could help eu countries whose national asylum systems are under disproportionate pressure or are in a state of emergency. we also asked the commission to study the feasibility of developing a european system for distributing asylum seekers, as well as more financial solidarity in this sensitive area and more resources for the european asylum support office in malta.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. solidarity is an essential element, see the essential element of the csr. it is a fundamental principle of union law that member states should share both the benefits and the burdens in a fair and equitable way. without solidarity, europe has no meaning. but solidarity must go hand in hand with responsibility, and member states must ensure that their asylum systems are able to meet the standards set by international and european law. supporting the implementation of asylum procedures in a spirit of solidarity and shared responsibility should be seen as a means of helping member states to fulfil their obligation to provide international protection to those in need, as well as assistance to third countries hosting the largest number of refugees, with the aim of strengthening the common area of protection in general.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. the standardisation regulation adopted enriches the current legislative framework and provides a valuable tool for businesses to achieve harmonisation of the internal market. the definition of clear rules, which have the same value in all the countries of the union, will enable our market to share common production criteria. the benefits of simplification will increase two factors necessary for the development of our free market area: the competitiveness of enterprises and the protection of consumers. the combination of these two elements is essential for the harmonization of the european production system from which social services for citizens must be excluded. on the one hand, common standards improve the market, on the other hand, standards applicable to consumer goods must not be allowed to apply to services for citizens. it is for the states to lay down the criteria for the organisation, management and financing of social security and health services; the standardization process cannot be the means to meet the basic needs of citizens. this limitation is a victory for the s&d group; together we have safeguarded the right and access of citizens to services.
in writing. i voted against this text. as food safety is a major concern of european citizens, member states should be required to modernise their identification and traceability measures in accordance with a defined timetable. giving consumers more information about what they are consuming will increase consumer confidence. however, amendment no 46 incorporated by the epp, alde and ecr which practically abolishes the 'optional labelling of cattle' is totally unacceptable and does not allow me to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. we have approved by a large majority the amendments to the european pharmacovigilance legislation. the amendments are intended to address the shortcomings of the new regulation and the new directive (which entered into force in july 2012), following the infamous 'mediator' scandal... the amendments to the european texts which are of paramount importance for public health will strengthen the european system for detecting and assessing potential problems with medicines in all eu member states. the new rules, which were the result of a co-decision procedure with the council of ministers, will enter into force in 2013.
in writing. we have approved by a large majority the amendments to the european pharmacovigilance legislation. the amendments are intended to address the shortcomings of the new regulation and the new directive (which entered into force in july 2012), following the infamous 'mediator' scandal... the amendments to the european texts which are of paramount importance for public health will strengthen the european system for detecting and assessing potential problems with medicines in all eu member states. the new rules, which were the result of a co-decision procedure with the council of ministers, will enter into force in 2013.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. three points in particular caught my attention. the introduction of an automatic emergency procedure, the creation of a mechanism to trigger this procedure and, finally, the clarification of the transparency obligations of companies (which will, for example, avoid taking citizens for less than what they are as laboratorio servier did by not renewing its authorization for the mediator in spain for commercial reasons).
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we have indeed approved by a large majority (606 votes in favour, 55 against and 13 abstentions) the provisional agreement reached with the council on the proposal to reduce particulate sulphur emissions from ships (directive 93/12/eec). according to this text, the maximum sulphur content of marine diesel used in the designated sulphur control areas (csecs) (baltic sea, north sea and english channel) will be lowered from 1,5% to 1% by 31 december 2014 and to 0,1% as from 1 january 2015. the maximum content of 0.5% will be mandatory in all eu seas by 2020 and will also apply to all passenger ships operating outside the cezs, etc. state aid may be granted to avoid the negative impact on the competitiveness of the sector of the investment costs inherent in these new requirements. i'm glad you did!
in writing. - there are no european limit values for maritime transport yet, unlike other modes of transport such as rail, road and air. i therefore welcome the fact that a regulation is now to be created. however, it would have been desirable to have a uniform regulation for the whole of europe rather than setting more stringent sulphur limits for ships operating in seca (sulphur emission control areas). these only concern the north and baltic seas and the english channel. if different limits are set internationally, this could lead to a shift in traffic from water to road. sulphur-free fuel is becoming expensive and this would make road freight transport more attractive. i therefore welcome the provision of state financial support for the shipping industry to counteract a possible shift from sea to land transport. this scheme is an implementation of the international marpol convention. it is important that international standards are set for modes of transport which have a strong international dimension, such as maritime transport. however, it is not understandable that member states agree to a regulation at international level first and then later try to block that regulation at european level.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. the implementation of the limit values for the sulphur content of marine fuels as agreed by the international maritime organization is important. i'll give you a number: 50,000. the commission has estimated that 50,000 premature deaths in europe are caused by air pollutants emitted from ships. the text was therefore eagerly awaited.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. then we'll have the debate on plantation rights. a high-level group set up by the commissioner for agriculture is working to find a compromise. the legislators are considering changes to the common organisation of the market (cmo), which for years has allowed government intervention to support and stabilise viticulture. the question then becomes whether the lifting of restrictions could weaken a sector already struggling with cheap imports, overproduction and falling demand. the share of land devoted to viticulture in europe fell by 12% between 2001 and 2011, according to figures from the international organisation of vine and wine.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. the socialists as a whole accepted the commission's proposal to establish common rules for the operation of imi. improving cross-border exchanges of information between different authorities in the member states is essential in our efforts to complete the single market. imi has proved to be a reliable and effective tool in the two areas in which it is already operational, namely the vocational qualifications directive and the services directive.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. the directive should be amended to further restrict the possibilities of unintentional non-taxation, double taxation, tax fraud or evasion within the member states, which cause more damage to the proper functioning of the internal market than those mentioned in the recently adopted resolution on the call for concrete ways to combat tax fraud and evasion.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the commission should 'fully participate' in the european summits in october and december, which are to draw up a roadmap for the consolidation of economic and monetary union, meps said in a resolution adopted with a show of hands. the aim is to create a financial and fiscal framework and to guarantee greater democratic legitimacy. to achieve this, we ask the commission to publish, as an immediate measure, a legislative proposal under the ordinary legislative procedure, which fully involves parliament and ensures transparency. this first proposal should make it possible to set up a real banking union with more powers and responsibilities for the ecb.
in writing. on tuesday, we adopted a non-binding resolution on tissue and cell donation in plenary. the text of the resolution calls on the member states to prohibit financial incentives for tissue and cell donation and to define clearly the conditions under which financial compensation may be granted. the european commission is invited to propose a text to guarantee the principle of unpaid donations. the resolution also stresses the importance of bilateral agreements, which help countries to fill the shortage of tissues and cells and to find a compatible donor when there is no one at national level, and the benefit for eu countries of working more closely with eurocet, which manages the european tissue and cell register. the majority of meps were also concerned about the emergence of the black market in sperm and eggs, which is why we also called on the member states to take coordinated action to combat the associated ethical and public health risks!
in writing. the alde group abstained on the yannakoudakis resolution on human tissue and cell donation, which deals in particular with the aspects of free of charge and anonymity. while the european commission stressed in the debate the balance between respect for its fundamental principles and the availability of cell and tissue products, the european parliament added obstacles to an already complicated situation: 14 member states report regular shortages, especially for bone marrow transplants and gamete donations. there is no reason, as the resolution states, for there to be european requirements for private tissue and cell banks alone. the same applies to the desire of the conservative forces in the european parliament to amend the existing legislation on innovative therapeutic medicines: the pro-life movements are trying to curb a whole range of research, from tissue engineering (skin, heart valves) to somatic cell therapy (used mainly in cancer). as rapporteur for the liberals, i regret that the plenary has rejected a humanistic and open approach to medical research. the only one that would meet the expectations of european patients.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. donations must be voluntary and made without profit in a transparent environment. they are exclusively for tissues and cells that fall into one of the following three categories: tissues of different origins, reproductive cells and non-reproductive cells. except for skin tissue, blood vessels, and amniotic membrane, donations usually come from a deceased donor.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report. as the member responsible for gender equality, i share many of the questions raised in this text. for example, does the commission's communication to the eu institutions and committees, entitled 'rio +20: towards a green economy and better governance', not include a gender dimension? i also wonder about the lack of figures on the presence of women in the green economy sector in some european countries, including a delta with previous years, as well as the lack of a clear common definition of what the green economy is for the european commission?
in writing. i have of course voted in favour of this own-initiative report. as a member of parliament responsible for equality between men and women and, moreover, as a socialist, this is a matter which is close to my heart. in the european union in 2010, employment in the services sector represented 69.4% of total employment, while this share was 25.4% in industry and 5.2% in agriculture. the majority of the female labour force is employed in the service sector: 83.1% compared with 58.1% of the male labour force. within the union, women earn 17.1% less than men, although the pay gap between men and women varies between 3.2% and 30.9% in the member states. these are just a few of the statistics that highlight the need for a change in thinking.
in writing. in the resolution we voted today, we drew attention to the social and economic consequences of school drop-outs. indeed, beyond the current crisis, the economic cost of rising unemployment and the difficulties of young people entering the labour market will clearly have negative effects in the long term! this is why we called on member states to develop and finance specific lifelong learning programmes, in line with labour market requirements, and strategies to reduce school drop-out, increase graduation rates and increase student mobility. member countries must target investment of at least 2% of gdp in higher education and 3% for research if they are to be able to compete with the new global economic powers. in order to ensure equal access to higher education, we also asked that member states give greater consideration to the idea of small, easily accessible scholarships awarded at the pre-university stage.
in writing. − education and training are a cornerstone of the europe 2020 goals. the existing disparities in education and training systems need to be addressed and member states need to step up the development of effective lifelong learning strategies. in addition, these strategies should be budgeted, both at national level and within the medium-term financial framework. education has a significant impact and affects all age groups: language skills and multilingualism should be particularly encouraged at a young age. they not only increase access to the labour market later on, but also educational opportunities and contribute to cultural exchange. a comprehensive language provision in schools is an example of achieving this objective. particular attention should be paid to young people, as unemployment in the eu has risen to over 20% and in some member states is as high as 50%. i therefore support the call to reduce school dropout rates, to increase the number of training and continuing training opportunities and to make it easier for young people to enter the workforce. access to learning needs to be extended, for example by promoting exchange programmes between pupils, students and teachers. but also the possibility of learning in old age should be provided, in the spirit of solidarity between generations, in order to promote lifelong learning. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report. it draws attention to gaps which need to be taken into account, such as early childhood development, the decisive importance of language learning, consideration for the elderly, etc.
in writing. on tuesday, in plenary, we called for better access to audiovisual works available online (films, music or streaming), particularly outside the national territory and language limitations. while the cultural and creative sector represents a huge economic potential (around 2,5% of the union's gdp), the main challenge for the online distribution of audiovisual works remains the accessibility for users and the attractiveness of lawful audiovisual content. illegal supply is rampant and hinders investment in the sector. the text adopted therefore stresses the importance of a more diversified legal offer and supports more flexible operating slots. we have therefore proposed the systematic use of the isan standard for the identification of audiovisual works and a reduced rate of vat for their online distribution in all member states.
in writing. i support this report, which has the laudable intention of proposing the creation of opportunities and means for the dissemination of european films. it is important that the european union should not be separated from the channels of education and culture. by preserving this, we will be doing a service to future generations of young europeans.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, i do not wish to ask a question, but rather to give my testimony. i just want to say that mrs ashton and her services have worked - i have witnessed this - to free the two swedish journalists. i myself went to ethiopia several weeks ago at the request of mrs ashton and with her information to get the intervention to free these two journalists. so i went, with the full agreement and support of mrs ashton, to see prime minister meles. i met with the prisoners. the swedish foreign minister also went to great lengths. i want to testify here to mrs asthon's action to free these prisoners. i think if we hadn't set this dynamic in motion, in complete secrecy, the prisoners might not have been released today. i wanted to say this because i know your passion for ethiopia, and i wanted that truth to be restored. so don't tell mrs ashton that she didn't do anything. she did a lot and we supported her.
madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the debate as it has unfolded so far shows clearly, madam high representative, the impossibility of your task. on the one hand, you are asked to set priorities and focus on priority actions, and on the other hand, you are asked about everything that is happening around the world, asking you to do whatever you can to improve the situation. however, your task is also exciting, and we support you because together - but above all you and your team, who play the lion's share - we are laying the foundations for a completely new common policy: the common security and defence policy of the european union. i am one of those who would, of course, like the whole world to have seen this already, and i think it is gradually coming to light. that said, i have had a rather unfortunate experience, as have my colleagues who were also present last week in charlotte, north carolina, at the democratic convention: not once was the european union mentioned either during the entire convention or during the international leaders forum programme. mr brok writes in his report that the united states is our main strategic partner and that is certainly true , but still not once has it been mentioned about us. i conclude that we have a tremendous amount of work to do.
the day before yesterday, the south african farmer johan fourie and his wife cecile were murdered in appalling circumstances. the police said it was one of the most gruesome crime scenes they've ever seen. the european media are not paying attention to this, but johan and cecile fourie are not just any one case. since the anc came to power, more than 3 000 farmers have been killed in south africa. there's a pattern to these killings. they're usually accompanied by hours of torture. usually, there's not much that gets stolen. it has nothing to do with poverty. these people are just being killed for who they are. it is a political problem, because there are important forces in and around the anc that are working in the hands of these murder parties. the government and the police are doing very little. the land reform that is under way threatens to aggravate the situation even further. so it takes more than a letter to get things done. there must be sanctions and there must be measures.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 12 september, at 12.30 p.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
i would first like to welcome to the podium mr al-jarrah and mr doghmouch, who are syrian visitors, and also mr el-hariri, a prominent lebanese politician, for being here and listening to our debate. we welcome you and you will have the opportunity to follow our discussions on the whole syrian issue that we are dealing with. the agenda calls for the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in syria (2012/2788 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mrs ashton, i think we probably all have the same questions, that is to say, you have before you parliamentarians who are convinced that the solution is a political solution, otherwise there would be risks of contagion and destabilisation of the region. we are seeing it today: if there is no political decision, there will be destabilization in the region. we're starting to see it in lebanon. one can imagine what would happen if there was ever any kind of retaliation at the iranian level. it feels very good that we are at a time when a choice has to be made. i am not asking you to answer that, but it is true that for us it is the major question today. we went to washington on friday; i was at the state department and everyone was talking about "the after". we're studying the transition for the day after. we're already at the day after tomorrow? i thought we were still in the middle of it. i see there are plans for the future. we know how to neutralize chemical weapons, we know how to provide humanitarian aid, etc., we are all preparing for the post-transition because, here, we have our hands free. but talking about post-transition, when people are dying today, it has, to me, something surreal. i'm not asking you for an answer you can't give, but i may ask you one thing and that's the last one, mrs. ashton. i'm obsessed with the risk of contagion, and i know you're working to contain it, but we need to put more emphasis on that. you talked about your conversations, your dialogue with iran. i know that you attach great importance to the lebanese question, but perhaps limiting the risk of contagion would already be a very concrete answer to what we are terribly concerned about today and what we are desperate about.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to say to mrs ashton that i think her approach is completely unrealistic: to talk here in the plenary about political transition at a time when there are 25 000 deaths and 70 000 people missing in syria and 250 000 refugees outside syria. no, let us recognise that it is the attitude of the international community – which is doing nothing at all – that is a scandal. we know why they are doing nothing: because there are american elections. it is impossible at the moment for the candidate who will be elected – or for the candidate who will be re-elected – to have an operation in syria. that is the reality. so tell us the truth and do not tell us we are waiting for a political transition. there will not be a political transition unless first of all the problem of the violence of assad is tackled and an end put to his regime. you know it very well: end the assad regime. it will only be done by the international community taking a number of measures – a no-fly zone for example. if you do not start with a no-fly zone he can continue to use his planes against the population, against aleppo, against other cities in syria. if you do not create safe zones near the borders with jordan and turkey it is impossible to have a safe haven for refugees. if you do not create humanitarian corridors so that the people can go there, the problems will continue. if you do not give weapons to the free syrian army, then it will be the jihad that continues to enter. this is what i hear: ‘syria is a problem. the jihad fighters are there now.’ it is our responsibility. if the western democracies do not shoulder their responsibilities – which we are not doing now – then automatically it is warriors of the jihad who will be carrying out violence inside syria, as is happening at the moment. so my question to you is: will you simply continue this? keep repeating this message? then there will be 30 000 deaths, maybe 40 000 deaths in the future, half a million refugees. it is time that the international community recognises that neither the kofi annan plan, nor its successor, are able to do it. it is time also to overcome the deadlock in the security council. i think that we have an obligation to protect these people and this obligation to protect these people is not, in my opinion, a value that is dependent on the attitude of the russians and the attitude of the chinese. a coalition of the willing was possible for bad causes – we did it in the past. why not for a good cause here in syria to end the bloodshed that is happening today? that is your task: to lead us. if the americans do not have the courage, maybe you have and the europeans have the courage. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
the question is "blue cardboard". do you really think, mr verhofstadt, that this is simply a matter of american elections when, at the democratic convention, mr obama has just boasted, precisely, of having ended two wars? do you think that if he is elected, he will reopen another front that may be even more dangerous than the war in iraq or the war in afghanistan? if, as you suggest, we unblock the situation in the security council, which would obviously be the solution, that would mean that russia is agreeing somewhere. but if russia agrees, then bashar will jump right in, and there's no need for war.
answer is "blue cardboard". if the americans or the europeans do not have the courage to intervene, this will continue, we know that. assad's not going to go off on his own. we know that, all the sanctions have already been taken. increasing the number of sanctions does not change anything! the only thing that can change anything is that the americans and the europeans, as they have done in the past, decide to establish a no-fly zone in this country, in syria. what will automatically follow is the liberation of territories which, for some, are already liberated. but right now, it's civil war over there! i hear people say, "yes, but your attitude is very dangerous, it's the beginning of the war". but this is the war in syria! right now, it's a civil war with tens and tens of thousands of dead! the question we must ask ourselves is not that, but rather how long we are going to let this situation continue. if we had intervened six or nine months ago, there would have been ten thousand or fifteen thousand fewer deaths than today. (the president agreed to answer another question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer. – in my opinion the extremists are coming in more and more at this moment because the western democracies are not taking on their responsibilities. the only help that the syrian people are receiving for the moment is from extremists coming in who have weapons, while the free syrian army has no weapons and no possibility to fight against assad’s army. i think that is the reason why we are partly responsible for the fact that more and more jihad warriors are entering syria, coming from jordan and other neighbouring countries into syria. the only way to stop that is for the international community to shoulder its responsibilities. it should decide on a free no-fly zone and on the other elements that i have listed. otherwise, we are responsible for the radicalisation of the conflict.
we come here every month to condemn again and again the horrendous violence and we are always at a loss for words. a regime that victimizes its own people in such a way will disappear, that's for sure. we must repeat that, also to the supporters of assad, those who still have doubts. our message must be: there is no future with him and his regime. turn your wagon around and join the new syria. we must try even more than today to take initiatives which further degrade and isolate the regime. of course, the arms supply must be stopped. military intervention may sound appealing, but i agree with those who say that it could lead to more chaos. we can only consider this if there is a unanimous demand from the syrian opposition. in the meantime, we must provide effective humanitarian aid, apply all possible pressure on china and russia to bring down the regime and do everything possible to help the opposition to organise, unite and develop a credible alternative.
in writing. on russian soil, freedom of expression, a treasure that cannot stand the strain of restrictions or arbitrary judgments, let alone the imposition of moral or social norms, is gradually disappearing. the story of the three punks is therefore a perfect opportunity to shake the back of a totally rigid russian society. the three seeds of rebels are mainly three grains of sand that make the machinery of vladimir putin's power crack. activists, resistance fighters, provocateurs, activists: the photo of these women locked in a glass cage has gone around the world, sounding the rejection of a judicial system that recalls the dark hours of the stalinist trials. at that time, it took a lot of courage to dare to criticize the dictator of the kremlin. the russian poet ossip mandelstam was not lacking in this when he wrote an epigram against stalin in 1934, lines that earned the writer to be sent to siberia, where he died in 1938. the punkettes were given two years of hard labor for challenging authority. we should probably pay more attention to respect for human rights when we sign trade agreements with europe.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam yannakoudakis, i am surprised at your unjustified attack on the commission. if i understand you correctly, given the difficult situation in the refining sector, you are moving because there will be job losses. in 2006, that is the subject of my question and you will contradict me if i am wrong, i did not hear you worry about the loss of jobs in the sugar industry. however, the 2006 reform led to the restructuring of a number of companies. some of them didn't restructure and now you're defending them. i would therefore like to know whether you are following the policy of two weights and two measures: you did not express your disapproval of the restructuring measures of a few years ago and now you are reacting under pressure from very influential lobbies.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, madam commissioner, i have already had the opportunity to speak on a blue card, so i am surprised at the wording of the question. i think it is dictated by the private interests of a few big refiners, and i cannot agree with that wording or the prosecution of the commission. mrs reding explained very well that the commission wanted to ensure that consumers had an adequate supply of sugar. it has managed to maintain this balance by monitoring the market and acting in a fairly rapid manner. i would like to see an adjustment of quotas in the future. i am not sure that we can create jobs again, because i would say that this is a concern we can share by adjusting the quotas to the market. but above all, i think it is useful to try to control production collectively in the future because we know that whatever the production, a lack of control of production leads to a drift, with erratic prices, which are an enemy of agricultural producers. and in sugar, as in other products, it is essential to have complete control of production to meet the market. in any case, i hope that in future these quotas will be adapted to the realities of the market to give a little more life to european industry and european producers.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank president barroso very much for his message, because he has recognised – and this was a change from the debates last month and last year – that we are still in the middle of a deep crisis and we have to recognise that when we discuss the state of the union today. but what we are seeing today is more of a deep political crisis. everybody is talking about public finances, about interest rates, about economics. in my opinion it is not about greece, it is not about the public finances, it is not even about economics as being the fallout of the crisis. the real nature of this crisis is a political one and that is the political incapacity today to make the jump forward to a federal union and, more precisely, the incapacity of the national elites of europe to make this jump to a more federal union in europe. that is the real crisis we are going through today. i am saying that, mr barroso, because you have made a whole speech, but at the end of the speech you come up with a concept and that concept we cannot accept: a federation of nation states. no, no federation of nation states, that is more of the same, we have that already – that is the european council, which is a federation of nation states where the heads of government and the heads of state were trying to solve and are incapable of solving this crisis. we do not want more of the same – we do not need a nationalistic or a national future for europe. we need a post-national future for europe. that is what we need. what we need for europe is not a federation of nation states: it is a federal union of european citizens. it is about citizens and it is not about nation states in the future.
on behalf of the alde group. this is the first good news of the day! perhaps mr barroso will say: yes, i am actually going to transform the federation of nation states into a federal union. so we'll have unanimity in the house today! mr president, even after the decision of the constitutional court i am always a little bit critical when we talk about the constitutional court, as if there were no constitutional courts in other eu countries for the moment, but maybe in the future we can give them as much attention as we have given to karlsruhe there are still three remarks to be made. first, it is not the european central bank that will solve the crisis. the european central bank can help; the european bank has done the unavoidable in that for the third time already after trichet with smp, after the ltro draghi has bought us time again. but this is a stopgap solution; this is not a structural solution to this crisis and it is a mistake to think in this house that, if the ecb comes in, then our problems are over. no, our problems are only over if we have the courage to create the federal union that is so desperately needed. do not think that this new measure of draghi can work for more than five or six months. the crisis will come back if we do not assume responsibility that is my second remark today, dear colleagues. we all know what the solution is. we all know - besides a number of individuals on the other side of the plenary - that we need an economic union, we need a political union, we need a fiscal union. we all know that is the solution. i find it unthinkable that we are still waiting to come forward with proposals and what are we doing, in fact? waiting for the outcome of the german elections or something like that, because that is the political reality for the moment. i stress that i think it is very good, mr barroso, that today you have introduced a proposal for a single financial supervisor, which is one of the three building blocks for a banking union. but what i do not understand is why the commission is not also taking the initiative on the other building blocks that are needed to solve this crisis. we desperately need a resolution mechanism for the banks. the establishment of an economic government and a treasury in europe: we need it desperately, if we want to solve the crisis. the mutualisation of debt by the establishment of redemption funds: even the chief of the german sparkasse last week said and he is the former minister of finance in bavaria, a good member of the csu that it is absolutely necessary that we have a redemption fund if we want to solve this crisis. furthermore, he, the chief of the whole sparkasse in germany, has asked the european commission to take the initiative in that regard. so my question to you, mr barroso, is why these two standards? if the european council in june was asking you to come forward with a proposal for a banking union within two months and that is a good thing why is mr barnier not putting forward a proposal for a banking union? if this parliament has already asked the commission four times, in the two-pack and in the resolutions, to come forward with a redemption fund, which is a real structural solution to this crisis, why do we receive nothing at all? why is the european council more important than the european parliament when you come forward with your own initiatives? why? why? (applause) i believe that we are in a balanced union. you have the council and you have parliament. if parliament requests that you come forward with a package of legislative proposals to end this crisis, it is your obligation and duty to do that. we are still waiting. we are still waiting for, i don't know what, perhaps the green light from berlin or from paris before you take action in that regard. that brings me finally to my third point, the proposal that we have on the table today, which is the creation, the establishment of a single financial supervisory authority by giving more powers to the european central bank. i have to tell you, mr barroso, i think it is a good idea that we have that, because we need a single supervisor. but i have some question marks on the model that we are choosing today because, let's be honest, what we are doing is mainly copying the banque de france. in most of our countries - in britain it is the case, in belgium, in the netherlands and in germany too - you have a split between a monetary authority on the one hand and financial supervision of banks on the other. i cannot understand why we cannot merge the three institutions that we have today into what we call a financial supervisory agency or authority, so that we do not mix a financial supervision task with a monetary authority. i see a number of possible conflicts today: euro area banks versus non-euro area banks; banks versus other financial institutions. i see a problem between the ecb and the eba. the eba is creating the roadmap and the ecb is applying the roadmap. i also see a problem on democratic accountability, because democratic accountability is not compatible with the independence of the bank. so my proposal to you, mr barroso, is to look further into that question and also to change the legal basis. my proposal and suggestion to you and mr barnier is not only to use article 127 as a legal basis, but also article 114, so that we have full co-decision with parliament on such an important matter in the future. so i conclude, mr president, but i have a little more time as you interrupted me in the beginning of my speech with good news, so there is no criticism from my side. i think it is absolutely necessary now, mr barroso, that not only do we hear a good speech from you but that you put forward a whole package of legislative proposals in the way parliament wants. because do not forget that your legitimacy comes from this house, from this parliament, and it is also this house that can take it back. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149 (8))
the question is "blue cardboard". mr verhofstadt, too often in the capitals we hear the phrase: 'europe is to blame'. but when i listen to you here in parliament for the last three years, all i hear is the speech: 'it is the fault of the member states'. it's that simple! perhaps it is because you have been prime minister of a member state for ten years that you know the debauchery of national governments, but do you really think - and i have been a federalist for as long as you have - that we are going to make a federation in europe against the member states which, i remind you, have governments that have been democratically elected? i think it is a dead end to simply reply 'it is the fault of the member states' to those who say 'it is the fault of europe'.
answer is "blue cardboard". i am not saying that we should deny that there are member states! they should be the ones to implement the policies! but the reality is quite different. the reality in europe today is that decisions are taken in the council. but we now see that the council is incapable of doing so: the member states are incapable of deciding to pool the debt, they are incapable of creating economic governance, they are incapable of doing so because they are motivated by their national interest. we are the ones who represent the european interest, not the nation states! (applause) i would like to thank the crisis will be solved by giving sovereignty to the european level. of course, tomorrow belgium will continue to exist, as will all the other member states of the european union. but it will be with a true federal union. that does not mean with a budget of 1%. this has nothing to do with a federal budget. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president of the commission, you have today sent a clear message and you have convinced us of your commitment to this legislature to do what is within the scope of the treaty, to remove the long-known weaving errors from the economic and monetary union, but also to really prepare us for a globalised information society. europe is, of course, more than an economy and money, but the euro is also more than just a currency or a symbol. we must therefore do everything in our power in the coming period to balance responsibility and solidarity so that the euro has a solid financial, budgetary and socioeconomic foundation and democracy can once again play its part. it is good that the commission is putting its word into action by launching all the legislative proposals for european banking supervision today, because only concrete results can convince citizens to trust us again.
mr president, mr president of the commission, you sometimes tell us that you lack the support of the greens... i just want to say that the level of ambition you've shown today is encouraging. there are, of course, differences of opinion as to the nature of the crisis we are experiencing. and it's true, you haven't talked enough about the ecological crisis, because we're reaching and exceeding the physical limits of the planet. i just want to encourage you in one thing. you are showing ambitious federalism on the question of the banking union. we encourage you in this regard and we stand by you. we would like to see the same enthusiasm and boldness in the field of fiscal federalism. you know in english, the term "tax" often implies looking exclusively at expenditure. we want to see the same thing in terms of tax harmonization or convergence. you have taken the initiative on the question of the financial transaction tax, which is very good. we need multinationals in all sectors, including, of course, the financial sector, to start paying the taxes they have to pay. for that we need a harmonization of corporate taxation in europe. you're expected on that field, too. we'll be with you.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, firstly, while to start with mr barroso was initially mr farage’s punching ball, is mr farage now becoming mr barroso’s punching ball? i would see that as a positive development in this plenary. i shall now come back to the main discussion we had an hour ago. i think – and my group thinks – that the commission should make more use of its right of initiative on a number of topics and on a number of issues. i would advise the commission not to wait for the green light – or red light – from paris, berlin or other capitals. the red light is always there but not the green light. it needs to do what is necessary and put its legislative proposals on the table. the effect on the market would be so positive that it would be far more difficult for these countries to react negatively. my third point concerns banking union. mr barroso has said that he does not want a delay. i do not want a delay either. but that does not mean that, if he does not agree with a proposal that has the support of the council – and mainly of germany in this instance – that we cannot discuss it. just because germany considers that the ecb should do a given job we do not have to agree with it. i am sorry, but that is not codecision, is it? codecision means that for a short period – and you can be sure that our coordinators will respect that and will examine the proposal – you can suggest other, better possibilities, rather than creating double standards. finally, in germany they need to be serious. they cannot at the same time give tasks other than monetary functions to the ecb and criticise mr draghi for the interventions he is currently making in the markets. it is one or the other: either it is independent – in which case we have no financial supervision – or it is not, in which case they can continue to criticise mr draghi, as they have been doing in recent weeks.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive to ensure that victims of violent robbery, assault, rape, harassment, terrorist attack or trafficking in human beings have basic rights throughout the union. each year, nearly one in six europeans is a victim of a serious crime. yet, the treatment and protection of victims varied greatly from one country to another. it was time to address this real legal and human gap. in concrete terms, whether a person is the victim of a road accident in the south of france, of a violent robbery in the streets of milan, london or berlin, or of an assault (violent robbery, burglary, rape, harassment, hate crime, terrorist attack or human trafficking), every victim will have the same threshold of protection. we also included a guarantee to provide assistance to the victim when informed of the offender's release; the painful news of the belgian judicial system in september underlines even more that support for victims is also paramount at this time...
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement. it is only the logical follow-up to the first mutual recognition agreement concluded with new zealand. the aim is to simplify the operation of the mutual recognition agreement, which entered into force on 1 january 1999. the text, for example, removes technical barriers to trade and specifies the objectives of each party in the areas of health, safety and the environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. it is important that the union should have an appropriate legal instrument to respond to the lack of cooperation of states which persist in violating the quota rules, for example, and thus endanger our future. highly dissuasive sanctions should also be provided for against offenders.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. as the member responsible for consumer protection, i thought it important to emphasize the aspect of labelling. consumers have the right to better and more intelligible information on the fishery products they buy in order to make informed choices. however, the frozen products concerned should be exempted from this provision as they already bear the indication of the date of freezing (or the date of first freezing) and the indication 'preferably consumed before ...' to avoid the use of dates which would be confusing for the consumer. labels should also contain information on easily identifiable fishing areas to which the consumer could refer, as opposed to the labelling areas currently used. fish species should also be identified by means of locally familiar names on all labels. consumers should be able to know with certainty which fishery products have been frozen and thawed, in particular in the case of so-called 'fresh' fishery products.
in writing. − while this report shows progress in the field of foreign and security policy, it also gives a clear and unmistakable picture of our lack of capacity to speak with one voice. the structural weakness of europe is of course reinforced by the desire of some member states not to surrender their sovereignty. the fact that this has not strengthened any country but has weakened europe is something we must recognise in many areas of policy, including the strengthening of the democratic voice of citizens in many countries and the demand for social or environmental standards. this inability has the additional consequence that we impose rules on ourselves in important policy areas, but we expose ourselves to unfair competition from countries and continents which do not respect these rules.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report. the voters i am among hope that this report will call on the european union to achieve greater synergies based on the triple mandate of catherine ashton as high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, vice-president of the commission and president of the foreign affairs council, and supported by the eeas. it is true that the transition to a new approach to the cfsp has been difficult. it is crucial that the hr/vp and the eeas play their driving role. the absence of leadership and strategic approach requires giving priority to the european neighbourhood policy as a strategic principle, including in the development of the cfsp.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, hoping that the ideas it conveys will be followed by strong action. everyone agrees that multiannual management and recovery plans are important, while several countries in the union continue to practice totally foolish and irresponsible overfishing! on the other hand, i also note that only 17 stocks are planned in union waters.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report. indeed, it is worth recalling that the previous cfp did not achieve some of its main objectives: many stocks remain overexploited, the economic situation of some segments of the european fleet remains fragile despite subsidies, jobs in the fisheries sector are being lost and are not attractive, especially for young people entering the sector, and the situation of many coastal communities dependent on fishing and aquaculture remains precarious. the primary objective is to ensure the supply of fish stocks and the development of coastal communities, by promoting employment and improving the working conditions of fishermen. i would just like to point out that if we put the sustainability of resources on the back burner and if we do not allow the stocks that have been overfished to be replenished, for example, we will soon be past the point of no return.
the commission is really putting its own spin on the proposals you have announced today, commissioner, and that is a triple positive. that is a good thing because it is now clear that, after the european council, the commission has now reached the same conclusions as parliament in 2010, namely that we need a banking union. secondly, it is a positive thing because the creation of a european supervisory mechanism offers us the prospect of breaking the vicious circle between the banking problems and the problems of national public debt, and therefore the taxpayers. it is positive for a third reason: concrete policy processes are now under way. it is only by taking concrete and decisive decisions and by taking serious and concrete steps forward that we will be able to regain the confidence of the people and the markets. we shall now have to discuss this in detail. it is a proposal which demands a great deal of attention, because it is a very radical proposal. we shall certainly have the opportunity to return to this later. but i would like to say this: we have been concerned in parliament at one time about the democratic dimension of the problem and about - as you yourself have mentioned - the legal basis and the implications of this for the role that parliament can play in this important matter. i am glad that we are not going to go down the road of choosing another legal basis: that would have cost us at least another six months, a lot of time, time we can't afford. so i am pleased that you have announced - as mr barroso said this morning - that we should consider these two proposals together. we hope that this will be the case and that there will be agreement with the council on this. that is the best guarantee of quality supervision, the quality supervision needed to ensure that banks can once again play the role they are supposed to play, namely to serve the real economy and to create growth and jobs. i hope to cooperate constructively with everyone.
(off microphone) can't do you on this one, it's for showing a lack of ambition. i don't see how we could have gone any further than you suggested. so, i think you've got a 20 out of 20. you are trying to supervise all european banks, not just some of them. you are aiming at simplicity and i think we can only rejoice in that. where you have perhaps shown a little less ambition is when you say: 'we have accepted the legal basis which the council recommended to us'. i would remind you, however, that you and you alone have the right of initiative, so you were free to choose another way of proceeding. more seriously, i obviously understand the ecb's choice, but i think it poses a double problem. it poses a problem of concentration of power. i think it is not healthy in a democratic system for one particular institution to accumulate too much power. but here, in the context of crisis management and monetary policy, we see a sort of creep mission, a drift from the mandate, in short, a temptation to increase its powers, and here we are going to increase them even more. i think that point needs our attention. secondly, we are dealing with an institution which has a tradition of democratic non-responsibility, in other words, in which independence is a deeply rooted domestic tradition. i cannot see how those who boast of complete independence when they come before us as monetary authorities will show the necessary deference to democratic institutions when they act as supervisors. i think we will need a lot of imagination to put in place mechanisms and rules to ensure that there is indeed neither abuse of power nor lack of democratic accountability. in any case, it is certain that by subjecting all european banks to european supervision, you are not only breaking a very unhealthy link between public and private debt, but you are perhaps also breaking another link, which is that complicity which is a little too great between the supervised and the supervisors at national level. this blood relationship has to stop, and you're going to help it.
the rapporteur. - mr president, friends of culture, good taste and venture capital, good evening. it is a good feeling to be among friends in this intimate place, the strasbourg chamber, on this summer evening. thank you for being here, a large audience came to applaud the performance of the two rapporteurs! the risk capital dossier is important because god knows if in europe today we need investment. our economy has been too much absorbed over the last thirty years, both by the public and private sectors, mainly by consumption and speculation to the detriment of investment, which creates value. in this perspective, venture capital plays an important role, especially in an innovation dynamic. we have to admit that in europe we have a dynamic of innovation that is probably excessively driven by regulation, so innovation from the top down, where it is targets set, for example, by the european commission or by member states, that drive innovation, as opposed to the american model, which is more of a bottom up innovation model, where it is people who risk both their money and their reputation in innovations that do not all succeed, far from it. but here's a model that we would do well to take inspiration from, not just to adopt it, but to have a better balance between top-down innovation, driven by regulation, bottom-up innovation, driven by investment, and innovation, i would say, autonomous of the market and the actors on the ground. encouraging venture capital is not easy, because it is obviously a matter of culture. if we in europe have a culture that is a little allergic to risk, it is clear that we will not change it overnight. however, anything that can be done to remove regulatory barriers or, on the contrary, to put in place mechanisms that encourage venture capital is a good thing to do. in this context, the commission's proposal to create a european passport for venture capital funds, which is in some ways a guarantee of quality and also a guarantee of access to the entire internal market, is a good idea. from this point of view, the case should have been simple and it was. the negotiations were quite quick. in the end, we didn't have a lot of disagreements. one of the questions was whether or not a depository system was necessary in the spirit of consumer protection. we, the rapporteur and the fictitious rapporteur, have decided that perhaps venture capital is one of the areas where we want to encourage risk, with investors who know a little about the risks they take, and that therefore consumer protection concerns, from the moment we turn to professionals, can take a back seat to efficiency considerations. we therefore left the depositary system aside and quite quickly finalized an agreement on 28 june last - an agreement which was welcomed by the three partners, parliament, the council and the commission. i am grateful to the commission for helping us to reach an agreement fairly quickly. then, what was my surprise to discover, five days or seven days later, i don't know - sophie, you will remind me - almost through public rumour, that the council was denying its agreement. and i would like to say that, from a procedural point of view, this is unacceptable. we may realize that we've gone too far in a negotiation, that we've made too many concessions and all that, but an agreement is an agreement. when a deal is made, and it's announced and you're happy about it, well, you honor that deal. that is what we are going to do tomorrow when we vote on this text and i therefore ask parliament not to play the stupidest game with the council, that is to say to go back on its initial positions and pretend that we are going to start the negotiations again. no, we are committed to the process we have been through and to the agreement we have reached, and it is on these terms, and on these terms only, that we shall be voting tomorrow. i would therefore urge you to support us in this and i hope to hear a lot of encouragement from the many in the audience.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs, mrs auconie and mr lamberts, for the good cooperation we have had over the past few months. we, as the s&d group, can support what is on the table as a good compromise. we have heard this morning in mr barroso's state of the union that we must do everything possible to promote economic growth. we are of course in full agreement with that. investing in innovative companies through venture capital and also in social economy projects through those social investment funds can make a difference. the issue of such passports is a modest but effective contribution to that end. it will create a framework which can give investors confidence and help - as you yourself have said, commissioner - to make more use of the savings in the real economy. this leads to investment in the innovative start-ups and in the social economy. the text before us is a step forward on several points. there will be a passport for the funds and better protection for investors. it is a balanced package which came after difficult negotiations with the council. we were therefore very surprised and disappointed that the agreement reached, which was even officially communicated by the previous danish presidency, could not be concluded in time by the cypriot presidency. this allowed a number of countries to organise and blocked the political agreement. this situation means that although we will be voting on the agreement reached tomorrow, we will not be able to hold a final vote. i would say to the commissioner that we appreciate the commission coming forward with proposals to bring about a compromise, but frankly i think the ball is in the council's court. we have accepted the deal we have made in all honesty and we are prepared to approve it. i think the council must also be consistent. the point of no return is more topical than ever and goes far beyond these two proposals. the question is: we are not talking about a tax haven, but about a tax haven. is the fight against tax evasion at european level merely a verbal battle, or are we really taking a strong stance? we as a parliament must keep up with that.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, i should first of all address the council, but in such matters it is never there, so it is quite difficult to negotiate in this way, of course. i will therefore address you to say that we must not distort reality altogether. we have an agreement. it is not that there is a small obstacle to an agreement; we have an agreement. simply, one of the partners is not living up to the word he gave publicly. there is therefore a real problem of trust between the negotiating partners. i'm sorry, these are things that are not done. they may have realized afterwards that they had gone too far, that they had made too many concessions, but that was their business. it was their job to prepare and conduct their negotiations properly. if they are not capable of doing so, woe to them! that's how it is in business! if you get scammed for bad negotiation, that's the price you pay! the council has too often disregarded this house to be able to pass the torch by saying to it: 'we understand that you have made a bit of a mess, so we will discuss it again'. no, you can't! i am in favour of a first reading agreement, well it is very simple: if we want a first reading agreement, we keep our word, they keep theirs, and that's it, end of story! if they want to do anything else, it's going to be expensive, it's going to be hard and it could take a long time! you're gonna say it's going to take an important case hostage. yes, of course! it is not the first time that the council has taken parliament hostage on other matters either. we need to stop playing with our feet, because i think that's unfathomable. as for the compromise proposals, the commission is well known for its propensity for proposals, and i appreciate that. i just want to say that taking back the aifm clause is exactly what we didn't want to do! the aifm clause is a paper tiger! today, according to the oecd, there are no longer any jurisdictions on their blacklist. you are in liechtenstein? you are clean! you're in the cayman islands? you are clean! you're clean all over the world! there is no more tax haven. we don't have to fight tax havens anymore. it is to avoid this situation that we want to include in an article - and not just in recitals - some rather serious standards on tax havens. stop selling us wind just to please us, saying "look, we work well against tax havens". this kind of cinema is over! i would like to thank sophie auconie and the many fictional rapporteurs who are here. in any case, we have worked well together, and we intend to continue to do so. so it is not just one green who says to you 'it will be hard if the council persists', it is the whole parliament who says so! (applause) i would like to thank
the report before us is indeed a nail-biter, and it says in the very first paragraphs, and i quote: 'we stress that the european institutions must respect the principle of subsidiarity in the legislative process'. this is my most basic comment on the subject. what we need, therefore, is not primarily the new european treaty announced by mr barroso yesterday. no, what we really need is a thorough review of where and how european policy is really useful and really necessary and where it is not useful or necessary at all. we must also re-examine how many european institutions, how many european administrations and european rules are really useful and necessary and how many are not useful or necessary. i believe that this is not only a very big saving for the taxpayers, but also a real respect for the principle of subsidiarity, much more respect than the 'courier am symptom' to which we seem doomed. unfortunately, in reality we are very far from the union of nation states that president barroso preached yesterday. one more thing. there is a bit of a celebration going on about the so-called yellow card procedure. let's face it, she's barely been used once. it is little more than a towel to bleed on, a voice for national parliaments which is hardly a voice in reality.
mr president, we are in the same situation, sophie auconie and i, regarding this report. i just want draw your attention to the fact that this is a quite exceptional case where, after successfully concluding the trialogues, with an agreement openly announced by the commission, parliament and the council presidency in the person of the prime minister of denmark, the council has decided to renege on the agreement. what we are going to vote on today is the text as agreed with the council. we are urging the council to stand by their word and to adopt that text, with the wording we agreed at the end of june. as we still want to give some leeway for discussion with them – but just discussion – we will not take the final vote. at least that is what i will propose to you; but we intend to stay firm on this matter. i might add that the reason why the council has reneged on this agreement is in order to prevent us fighting all too effectively against tax havens – which is really a disgrace.
in writing. the situation in syria is morally unsustainable. the international community has a moral obligation to go beyond any posture and declaration, to exercise the right of humanitarian intervention and to ask itself whether it would not be more relevant to act within the framework of the g20, which is more representative of the reality of the world, instead of vainly insisting on obtaining a resolution in the security council. in the face of escalating violence, the population must be helped by urgently providing medicine, food, creating humanitarian corridors, establishing no-fly zones. similarly, the international criminal court must be urgently brought before it for war crimes and crimes against humanity. if we remain passive witnesses to the massacres that are taking place in syria, we will have to answer to future generations. inaction is not an option as ban ki moon very rightly said.
author. - mr president, this is not a tragedy, but a massacre. that's why i wanted us to keep that title because, in effect, when you have 78 injured and 34 dead among striking miners, i call it a massacre. what bothers us a little is that this happened in a friendly country, which fought a lot against apartheid and that south africa, to a certain extent, was a kind of model. but even with countries that are our friends, even with countries that are models, we must be able to speak the truth. i think president zuma has understood that. he is now conducting an investigation, which had started badly, i admit, since it was the miners who were protesting against unacceptable working conditions who were accused of murder. but now i think it's all back on track. what i am calling on europe to do in its relations with african countries is to look very closely at the social responsibility of the companies that work there. it is at this point that we feel a little bit responsible for what happened in south africa.
the european union has also expressed its concern about the situation in azerbaijan, which is a country which has been suffering from a serious economic crisis. on the other hand, i would like to explain the position of my group: we have indeed kept our signature at the bottom of this compromise resolution, but we have a question: if hungary has agreed to hand over mr safarov to azerbaijan, it seems that it had received assurances that his sentence would be maintained, and that was not the case. why is the hungarian government not protesting strongly today? we therefore wished to introduce an amendment in our resolution which is very cautious in relation to the hungarian government and which simply says that its attitude is a little surprising and imprudent. we shall make our agreement to the resolution conditional on the adoption of this amendment, because i think it is a three-way game.
the question is "blue cardboard". in the jointly signed resolution, in paragraph 4 - if i can still read correctly - i see that diplomatic assurances have been given to the hungarian authorities about this transfer. i am prepared to admit that the letter of the convention on the transfer of sentenced persons has been respected, but not the spirit. and if this transfer was so regular, why ask for insurance? so my question is: have the orban government been given assurances or not? the question is clear, simple and easy to answer.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. − mr president, i am speaking on behalf of the transport committee, which provided an opinion for the budget committee. the committee on transport and tourism has underlined the importance of investments in transport. investing in transport is important, especially in compliance with the europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs. it creates economic growth and improves territorial cohesion, but it also helps in achieving safety targets. the transport committee carefully assessed the relevant budget lines and set its political priorities very clearly. on the one hand we have investment supporting economic growth and job creation, which are essential for the committee. it therefore voted in favour of a higher budget than that proposed by the commission for the ten-t programme. unfortunately this was rejected by the budget committee, which supported the commission’s draft proposal. on the other hand, the transport committee also identified budgetary lines where it was possible to make savings. it therefore supported the council’s cuts on two budgetary lines concerning administrative expenditures. in terms of the rest of the transport budget, the committee supports the commission’s draft proposal, and it clearly feels that investment in transport infrastructure is necessary for the correct functioning and achievement of the single market within europe.
in writing. it seems to me essential, in the context of the current discussions on the eu budget and its 2014-2020 budgetary framework, to take into account the efforts made by all europeans to overcome the economic crisis we are experiencing. it is important to give meps, the only directly elected members of the eu, the right to decide for themselves the arrangements for their place of work. it seems to me even more logical to grant this right when a decision on a single seat would, according to the latest estimates, reduce the cost of running the ep by eur 200 million annually. beyond this saving, the cessation of the monthly shuttle service between brussels and strasbourg would reduce the ecological footprint of our assembly by 20 000 tonnes of co2 per year. i therefore welcome the vote today, in which a large majority of members call on the member states to reconsider the question of the seat and places of work of parliament at the next revision of the treaty by amending protocol 6. the vote today once again gives a clear signal of the willingness of meps to participate fully in the budgetary and environmental efforts of its member states.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let me first welcome the decision of the european council on the banking union. nevertheless, i have to tell you that i thought it had already been decided in june – but better a european council that decides the same thing twice than nothing at all. i am also glad to see that the council finally agrees with the position of the european parliament and that of the european commission. we said from the beginning that this system has to be applicable to all banks, and it was an absurd idea to supervise only some banks. my second remark is also what our colleague mr swoboda said on the timetable. i have to tell you that i am less positive, because this timetable that they agreed on is firmly linked to – what? to the electoral calendar of germany. i find it irresponsible that we first of all have to wait nine months before we can start to implement something that we will approve here through legislation by the end of the year. nine months to wait for what? for the electoral calendar and the outcome of the elections in germany. this is the intergovernmental method; if every time you have to wait for the electoral calendar of france, then italy and now germany, you will do nothing. my second point concerns the paper. i think there are many good ideas in the paper, and there are also ideas with which i have some difficulties: the idea of individual contracts, for example. i do not think that our european union is what i would call a private law concern, based on contracts between the member states and the european institutions. no: we want common policies and binding legislation. my second point on the paper is on mutualisation of debt. may i ask you, mr barroso – you know, i will do it every time – every month i will come back to you and ask you: where is your proposal on the redemption fund and on the start of a eurobond market? because you know that it is the only way that interest rates can go down in the european union. take, for example, slovenia. slovenia is a country with less than 60 % public debt; at the same time it has a fiscal deficit of more or less 3 %, and it has an interest rate of 6 %, because it is a small market and nobody is interested today, with this crisis, in buying slovenian bonds. the eurobond market is the only way to solve it. i can tell you i have talked about the necessity to approve the two-pack, while parliament’s position is clear: if there is no proposal on the redemption fund on the table, we will not approve the two-pack. it is the same for mr schäuble’s proposal. mr schäuble can say, ‘i want the super-commissioner for economic and monetary affairs’. we will not go in that direction – even if i am in favour of that proposal – if there is no proposal on neutralisation of the debt as a first step towards the redemption fund or a first step towards a eurobond market. we are firm on this within parliament because we know that it is the only way to end this crisis, besides all the other measures which need to be taken. finally, something completely different, mr president: syria. it is time for the european council to do something, for the nobel peace prize winner to do something. we all know what is needed in syria. we need, as fast as possible, a no-fly-zone so that assad can no longer do what he is doing now: using his air force to massacre his people. aleppo, dear colleagues, is becoming more and more like dresden. daily bombardments, shelling by the syrian air force and a whole city in ruins. i find it a scandal that neither the european council nor the other european institutions are taking their responsibility regarding that scandal together with the international community.
mr president, let me first congratulate you, mr barroso and mr van rompuy on winning the nobel peace prize. unfortunately, i cannot congratulate mr vidal-quadras, vice-president of this parliament. on spanish television he suggested sending the guardia civil to catalonia to deal with moves towards catalan independence. this remark was utterly appalling. let the catalonians themselves vote on their future. look at prime minister david cameron with regard to scottish independence. cameron said, ‘ok, let’s hold a referendum in 2014’. that is the way to go about this, ladies and gentlemen. not the army, but democracy. in order to explain his remarks, mr vidal-quadras sent us a letter which makes it even worse. here is the letter. reading it, i had the impression that it had been drafted by general franco himself. he calls catalan independence neither peaceful nor democratic. well, what about him? so, dear winners of the nobel peace prize, what are you going to do about that? mr schulz, what are you going to do about it? not much, so far. you said that mr vidal-quadras was just expressing his private opinion and that he was not speaking as a vice-president. but he was. he was announced as vice-president and he is vice-president 24 hours a day, seven days a week, is he not? so, mr president, please do not run away from reality. call upon your vice-president to apologise to this house, to apologise to the catalan people and to resign. he does not reflect the dignity of his position and he is not worthy of the nobel peace prize. i would say to mr vidal-quadras ‘vergüenza – shame on you’! (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, the only point i wanted to make is that while i do not wish to interfere in the internal affairs of spain, i do not approve of a remark made by a vice-president of this parliament suggesting that the army should be sent to a province. the matter should be left to the voters and not to the army. we know the history of the guardia civil, and the señor knows about it better than i do! so let him please talk about it, and let us talk about democracy and let the catalonians decide themselves.
in recent years a great many measures have been taken to deal with the multiple crises. standard and non-standard measures. measures within the treaty and measures outside the treaty. but confidence has not yet been restored, and it is precisely that confidence which is needed to restore a financial and economic climate conducive to economic growth and employment. complex structural problems naturally require structural solutions, in the member states as well as in the union. and that is why we are anxiously awaiting the final road map towards a close economic and monetary union, which you, mr van rompuy, are working out together with the presidents of the other institutions, and which will remove the weaving of the economic and monetary union. it must be an ambitious plan, one that is carried out without delay, because the crisis does not wait for politics. that is why we in the european parliament are not sitting still. we voted on my report in the committee on economic and monetary affairs in brussels last week, on the building blocks of the road map. as rapporteur, i would of course recommend that you read it. we are speaking about the four building blocks, but we are adding a fifth: a social pact to remember what it's really all about. as regards the banking union, mr president, we are making substantial amendments to the proposals, because there are a number of points where the commission's proposal can really be improved, but we do not need to delay. we can make important progress in europe this year if everyone takes responsibility. we in parliament will certainly not delay.
in writing. the reasons today lacked inspiration, which immediately dashed the hope that the vision report could contribute to a strong response to the crisis. we want the union's leaders to give real answers to the questions of the thousands of ford genk workers who are threatened with unemployment and to the concerns of the 'lost generation' of 14 million young people in the eu who are neither in school, nor in work, nor in training. these young people, who must have the future of the union in their hands, have nothing to do, are powerless and have lost all faith in politics. the union is breeding a generation of mistrust, which is feeding populist and nationalist tendencies that are encouraging europeans to retreat to the island of their member state. we must really opt for a social pact in europe. what we see today is that the union is continuing to blunder along the economic margins, to cut the edges of the malfunctions of the unregulated market, without really looking to the future, giving hope to young europeans and developing a real vision.
in writing. in this time of crisis, it is essential that the eu assert itself as a responsible actor, capable of reviving growth and employment. the cuts proposed by the council for the 2013 budget were unacceptable in this respect, as they reduced the scope for eu action in terms of stimulating growth, entrepreneurship and research, which are necessary to improve the daily lives of european citizens. i am therefore glad that we have voted a budget proposal which is in line with the commission's proposal. i would also like to point out that while the ep voted against budget cuts for the headings intended to boost employment and growth, it is not opposed to austerity measures where possible. the proposal which was voted on contains a reduction in real terms of the ep budget.
in writing. parliament voted for a 2012 budget focusing on growth, jobs and innovation in the union and support for development and democracy in neighbouring countries on wednesday 26 october. first of all, i'd like to thank derek vaughan for his work. we voted in favour of this budget. we have tried to restore the draft budget proposed by the commission after the cuts made by the council in july. parliament's position implies an increase in payments of 5.2% compared with this year's budget. the resulting budget is €133.1 billion. the resolution on the budget was adopted by 431 votes to 120, with 124 abstentions.
in writing. − in times of economic and financial crisis and when member states are closely scrutinizing their budgets, the multiannual financial framework, within which the eu sets out the broad lines of expenditure from 2014 to 2020, is of the utmost importance. the eu must strike a balance between budgetary discipline, planning certainty and flexibility to respond to unforeseen situations. recent developments in particular have highlighted the fact that unforeseen events can have global implications requiring an immediate response. a more flexible design through appropriate adjustments is envisaged within the new financial framework 2014-2020. it is essential that, apart from the budgetary architecture, crossborder programmes, whether in social, education, employment or cultural policy, continue to be financed at european level and that this aspect is therefore taken into account in the adjustment of the structural funds in the context of this report. the european parliament will look particularly hard at the council if it takes up the pen and starts to cut appropriations. the cef, which is intended to provide a major boost to the european transport area, is another challenge in the debate with the council. the commission has already taken steps to improve the mobility of goods and people, to improve the connectivity of remote regions and to make the whole transport system environmentally friendly. many governments have set themselves these objectives, but now they must also show the political will to achieve them.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. i would like to highlight the admirable work of my colleague mr canfin who has done a job of a quality rarely achieved for an exercise of this magnitude. the multiannual financial framework is a spending plan which reflects the union's priorities in financial terms. this text is an excellent basis for the annual budgetary periods. it defines expenditure over a given period and the maximum amounts available for each major category of expenditure. it thus provides a financial as well as a policy framework to concentrate resources and investment where they are needed.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. the reform of the own resources system, including proposals for a financial transaction tax, was foreseen. a new union vat was needed to feed into own resources, to bring the share of member states' gni-based contributions to the union budget to 40% by 2020, which would contribute to member states' consolidation efforts. it is also worth noting that it is planned to simplify the method of calculating vat and to improve the transparency of the vat own resource.
the committee on foreign affairs has tabled a number of amendments. - madam president, we see three major problems with the acaa project today. the first is institutional. it is shocking to discover that once the european parliament has given its consent to the pharmaceutical sector, it will have no say in any other sectors that israel decides to open up. we call this buying a cat in a bag or, if you prefer, taking the european parliament for a pigeon. we will always fight for the prerogatives of parliament to be respected. that is why, in order to clarify this point, my group has asked for this report to be referred back to committee in order to obtain guarantees on this matter. the second problem is legal and concerns the jurisdiction of the israeli authorities over the products of the settlements, which are illegal under international law. we have presented an interpretative statement covering this aspect. you have just mentioned this, mr de gucht, but this declaration is a wishful thinking if it is not endorsed by the three institutions and, in particular, by the council, and to date we have no guarantee on this point. the third problem is political and it is not the least. this agreement, which was part of israel's upgrade proposal, frozen in 2008, although it can be legally concluded under the current framework, is a de facto upgrade. and nothing has changed on the ground since 2008, if not for the worse. the blockade of gaza continues, the settlement has expanded dramatically in violation of international law and peace talks have stalled. the lieberman plan announced last august to the european foreign minister and to mrs ashton, which envisages palestinian cantons around israeli cities, destroys any two-state solution and benjamin netanyahu has just tried, a few days ago, to partially implement the levy report which would legalize the settlements which the israelis themselves have so far declared illegal. that's not our policy. that is not the position of international law. and is it to this position of the netanyahu government that we want to give the acaa as a gift? this is unacceptable, at least for the socialists and the democrats, unacceptable in the light of our values, unacceptable in the light of the lisbon treaty and the new neighbourhood policy which provides for more for more. and it is on this basis that, if the report is not referred back to committee today, our group of socialists and democrats will in any case vote against the acaa.
mr president, commissioner, this technical agreement has been in the hands of parliament for two and a half years. today, despite the concrete responses given a few moments ago by commissioner de gucht and all the legal services, the obstruction continues. mr moreira, who is certainly never short of imagination, is therefore now about to ask for yet another postponement. we must remember, however, that voting for the acaa means facilitating the free movement of medicines between the european union and israel, especially generic medicines which, thanks to the agreement, will cure european citizens more quickly, while allowing our national budgets to make savings which they can hardly do without today. our job here is to evaluate, judge and vote for or against, in soul and conscience. that is what a handful of colleagues in this parliament have prevented us from doing for two and a half years now. it's been long enough. shimon peres used to say: "at one point, let's agree to disagree, obviously this is the time".
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, as i announced in the debate an hour ago, my group is asking for this report to be referred back to committee on legal grounds. if we say 'yes' to this agreement on the pharmaceutical sector, we as parliament will no longer have any say in other sectors such as cosmetics, for example, which may open up in the future. and it is this role of co-legislator that remains ambiguous and where we feel frustrated.
in writing. it was important to grant this discharge to efsa. almost 500 million consumers expect efsa to work effectively. i am not renouncing my wishes for independent work to be the rule, for full account to be taken of auditing and for a real challenge to restore the necessary trust between this body and the consumer!
in writing. i voted for this text. in view of the many serious problems recently posed by dangerous medicines circulating freely on the market with authorisations from the european medicines agency, there is an urgent need for much clearer, more transparent procedures, with sanctions for infringement, on data relating to clinical trials, the selection and training of the agency's scientific staff including the declarations of interest of its experts and of the members of the committees which have actively participated in the work of the agency.
in writing. the ep voted to make 2013 the european year of citizens. in a general context of economic, political and social crisis, it seemed to me important to dedicate a place to european citizenship. the aim of this event is to inform the general public, especially young people, on how to put their rights into practice. being a european citizen gives you many rights that europeans are not always aware of, such as the right to move and reside freely in another member state, the right to vote and stand as a candidate in european and local elections, and the right to petition the ep. another important aspect for me is the need to emphasize cooperation with local authorities, working in conjunction with national parliaments, the europe direct centres and the involvement of civil society.
in writing. citizens also complain about shortcomings in eu regulations, problems with the eu's administrative efficiency, a lack of transparency and excessive bureaucracy. the gap between the eu institutions and citizens persists, as does the low level of citizen involvement in the functioning of the eu. abstention rates in the european elections are high, especially among young people. there is a real lack of visibility of union citizenship and the concrete benefits it brings to union citizens. among the main problems faced by eu citizens when living, studying or working in another member state are lack of information and lack of awareness of their rights, as well as language barriers and non-recognition of diplomas and qualifications, especially in times of financial, political and social crisis within the eu. the proposed european year will therefore aim to raise awareness of the rights attached to union citizenship, in order to help citizens to exercise fully their right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states.
in writing. it was important to me that we take a stand against human rights violations. the death of sergei magnitsky is just one more injustice and manipulation among many perpetrated by the russian government and the judiciary. more recently, the pussy riot conviction has been the subject of much media attention as it represented an intensification of repression in russia, where the government has cracked down on protests, allegedly rigged elections, intimidated the media, banned gay rights marches for the next 100 years, jailed and purged opposition figures like chess champion garry kasparov. the application of these sanctions finally confronts the kremlin's high dignitaries with concrete consequences that make it possible to fight against their systematic attacks on democracy and transparency. we must send a strong political message to putin and the russian regime against corruption and impunity.
in writing. i welcome the resolution adopted on tuesday to relaunch the single european sky. the single sky is supposed to reduce travel times, and therefore co2 emissions and airfares, while increasing safety and job creation. it is important to use all the means at our disposal to manage european air traffic effectively and to avoid consumers wasting more time and money. the key is 328 000 jobs, which is very significant, especially in times of crisis. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the future of the single european sky, which aims to achieve a safe, efficient and sustainable single european sky, which is favourable to both our travellers and our businesses.
in writing. − as part of the objective of a single european transport area, the creation of a single european airspace is essential. as early as 1999, it was decided to merge the existing fragmentation of airspace from 27 different airspaces. a number of functional airspace blocks (fabs) should be created, which will shorten routes, reduce delays, save fuel, thus protect the environment and also reduce air fares. in concrete terms, this means that the introduction of fab and sesar technology would result in a reduction of flight times by approximately 10%, as well as a 50% reduction in cancellations and delays and a co2 saving of 50 million tonnes. these effects directly demonstrate the need for the creation of a single european airspace. the deployment of fab and sesar technology was to be completed by 4 december 2012, but the result is more than sobering. the member states do not want to be reminded of the commitment they made ten years ago to create a single european airspace. the objective will not be reached by the end of this year due to a lack of willingness on the part of the member states. how can the eu be a respected negotiating partner at international level in a transport sector as international as aviation if its 27 member states cannot speak with one voice? (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. the single european sky has many advantages. the new provisions will help to intensify the expectations for 2004: better congestion control; enhanced and truly unique security; a reduction in flight times by 10%, a reduction in delays and cancellations by 50% and finally a reduction in ticket prices; a reduction in co2 emissions; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. in this respect, according to a study by the european commission which i found particularly interesting, the rapid and full implementation of the new generation european air traffic management system (sesar) would reduce co2 emissions by 50 million tonnes and create 328 000 jobs, which i believe is a key element. following the changes in recent years, the adaptations to eu legislation will ultimately improve aviation performance and finally lead to the creation of a unified airspace, a truly single sky. this vote also gives me the opportunity to recall the voluntary political approach which the member states must adopt in this area.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text and would like to stress in particular the importance of member states' compliance with the completion of the single european sky in order to achieve significant safety and environmental savings by creating a more sustainable aviation sector and a more efficient air traffic management system at european level. i also stress the importance of taking regional airports into account because of their role in reducing congestion on the network and increasing capacity.
in writing. i welcome the resolution we adopted where we expressly ask the european commission to harmonise passenger rights in europe, across all modes of transport. while there are currently six directives, the aim is to create a common basic framework of rights that apply to all modes equitably and take into account all the characteristics of the different modes of transport. this should create more transparency as the current situation remains unclear for thousands of european travellers. in the event of an emergency and unforeseen circumstance, the traveller should no longer be in need and should be able to rely on a simple document to remind him of his rights. it must have a clear definition of what is meant by the term 'exceptional circumstances' and it must also have a clarification of the rules relating to carrier bankruptcy. we must work on better protection for travellers who must be able to benefit from a safe return. all prepaid trips should also be reimbursed. the transparency of prices on the internet should also be ensured, as the advertised price is too often not the same as the final price.
in writing. − in a single european transport area, uniform and easily understandable eu passenger rights are essential. at european level, individual rights have already been established for all modes of transport. the commission has already adopted the measures in force for air and rail transport, and they will be introduced for shipping and bus transport in december 2012 and march 2013 respectively. the report is welcome because it draws attention to the problems still existing in the field of passenger rights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the member states. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. information campaigns are a good way to do this. enforcement can be strengthened by clear rules for the establishment of national enforcement authorities, ensuring harmonised enforcement of passenger rights in all member states. the commission is already planning to review air passenger rights at the end of this year. the commission should take the european parliament's proposals to heart, so that not only are there clear passenger rights, which do not require the interpretation of a lawyer, but these rights can also be enforced in a uniform manner throughout europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which once again stresses the many problems and risks faced by passengers in all modes of transport. in particular, and as a matter of urgency, the commission is invited to improve transparency in the computerised reservation systems governed by regulation 1008/2008/ec which leave the consumer unarmed in the face of a series of abuses, such as abusive clauses in the overall calculation of ticket prices which automatically include unwanted surcharges. in addition, it is necessary to insist once again that the commission finally table a legislative proposal to revise directive 90/314/ec on package holidays, which is no longer appropriate at all and therefore deprives travellers of a legal framework in both normal and exceptional situations. finally, the current levels of consumer protection in the event of airline bankruptcy or insolvency are insufficient and require a legislative proposal providing for measures to protect stranded passengers in the event of cessation of operations, compulsory insurance for airlines or the creation of a guarantee fund.
in writing. i voted against the macovei report, which meant voting for the 2010 discharge of the european environment agency. i regret that this report and its motives have jeopardized the granting of this important landfill, which is consistent with europe's desire to make the environment a priority.
in writing. i followed the rapporteur's advice, who worked with representatives of each political group to get the most objective and constructive view of leonard orban's candidacy. the european parliament rejected romania's candidate, leonard orban, for the post of member of the european court of auditors on tuesday by 269 votes to 294 with 80 abstentions. mr orban had previously stated that he would withdraw his candidacy if it was rejected by meps.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. i would also like to congratulate mr daerden on the remarkable work he has done in thinking up, drafting and voting on his report. as regards the content, it is clear that providing additional support to workers who suffer the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and helping them to re-enter the labour market must be a priority for the european parliament! finally, i would like to pinpoint talk talk, whose decision to form alliances with three major providers based outside the european union should be denounced. this led to the transfer of a substantial part of the activity, which is a clear choice of a strategy detrimental to the union's industrial jobs and contrary to the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. i would also like to congratulate mr daerden on the remarkable work he has done in thinking up, drafting and voting on his report. as regards the content, it is clear that providing additional support to workers who suffer the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and helping them to re-enter the labour market must be a priority for the european parliament! on the other hand, i take this opportunity to deplore the council's decision to block the extension of the crisis-related derogation, which allows for the provision of financial assistance also to workers made redundant as a result of the current financial and economic crisis, and not only to those who lose their jobs as a result of major changes in the structure of world trade, and to increase the union co-financing rate to 65% of the programme costs, for applications submitted after the deadline of 31 december 2011. i ask the council to reinstate this measure as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text proposed by my honourable friend mr cottigny. as regards the content, it is clear that providing additional support to workers who suffer the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and helping them to re-enter the labour market must be a priority for the european parliament! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to promote the production of motor vehicles. europe had to reach out. however, i regret the council's decision to block the extension of the crisis-related derogation, which also allows for the provision of financial assistance to workers made redundant as a result of the current financial and economic crisis, and not only to those losing their jobs as a result of major changes in the structure of world trade, and to increase the union co-financing rate to 65% of the programme costs, for applications submitted after the 31 december 2011 deadline. i ask the council to reinstate this measure as soon as possible.
in writing. the issue of export controls on dual-use goods is a key one. this control should limit the risks of proliferation and military use without harming legitimate trade. it was therefore necessary to streamline the procedures applied under the european system of export controls by introducing delegated acts with a view to regularly updating annex i and, consequently, amending annex ii. regular updating of annex i and simplification of procedures are necessary in view of the rapid pace of technological progress. any delay in this could lead to serious safety problems and could even harm the competitiveness of european exporters if a third country were to remove export controls faster than the european union.
in writing. the adoption of the resolution on the harmonisation of the minimum level of training for seafarers brings european legislation into line with international standards (stcw convention of the international maritime organisation). the text, while improving the competitiveness of the european fleet, also maintains the stricter european standards for rest periods. by ensuring that all seafarers in europe have the same minimum level of training in the future, i am pleased that the directive is promoting progress in health and safety (e.g. better management of acts of piracy).
in writing. i voted in favour of mr simpson's text. the purpose of this report is to incorporate into union law the amendments to the international convention on standards of training for seafarers which were adopted in the framework of the work of the international maritime organisation. it should be noted that the social partners were well integrated into the conciliation process and were able to make constructive comments.
in writing. i have followed the opinion and the arguments of the rapporteur, mr moreira, and voted against this agreement. i have no complaints against the israeli citizen but against the decisions of his government. the acaa is not just a technical agreement, it is the strengthening of eu-israel relations. giving our consent to the acaa is to admit and encourage the illegal settlement of the palestinian territories. in addition, some passages are still rather obscure, which is why, rather than voting for or against the agreement, i was one of those who wanted a referral back to the commission to answer a number of questions. this agreement is ultimately a defeat for all parties. to want to do things quickly is harmful, and what is more, it is detrimental to certain values that i believe are central!
in writing. i am particularly pleased that the report on the future of the union's development policy takes the cultural dimension into account. culture is a vector of openness and a motor of democracies acting against all the nationalist tendencies, racist temptations and exclusions that the current economic and financial, climate and food crises fuel. that is why i think it is necessary to encourage the free movement of artists. the culture of a country is also a part of the universal space. this diversity is essential to break the impoverishing standardization of globalization. culture, as a system of thought, norms, values and interactions between societies, will, as abdou diouf says, be a determining factor in the management of globalisation. finally, culture creates wealth and jobs. its contribution to gdp can be as high as 3%. it is therefore important that poverty reduction strategies at national and international level take account of this.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. the programme for change is innovative in that it focuses on budget support, the combination of grants and loans, and the promotion of the private sector, among other things; i believe that the use of these mechanisms must first of all help to lift the citizens of developing countries out of poverty and dependence on aid, and to spread and apply the principles of good administrative and fiscal governance.
in writing. on 23 october 2012, the ep adopted a resolution to support smes. as the driving force of the european economy, they represent one of our best opportunities for developing job creation, which is welcome in this period of crisis. i am therefore pleased that parliament has voted this resolution, which highlights some of the measures which are indispensable to the development of the european economic fabric: reduction of administrative burdens, easier access to credit where it is less than eur 25 000, the establishment of an erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs... in the context of the negotiations on the new mff, the ep also decided to advocate an increase in the budget for smes.
in writing. − according to the commission, in 2010, the 23 million smes in europe accounted for two thirds of private sector jobs and 59% of total value added in the non-financial sector of the business economy. in addition, about 80% of the jobs created in the last five years were in smes. this shows that smes are at the heart of the eu's economic and employment policies and thus make a significant contribution to the europe 2020 strategy. it is therefore essential that the role of smes be strengthened. this initiative by the european parliament is an important step forward. it calls, inter alia, for the creation of a multilingual online portal with information on the laws and administrative systems of third countries and the mapping of local, national and european support programmes, which will particularly benefit smes operating across borders. initiatives that help reduce the administrative burden on smes are also supported. these are good approaches to strengthen european smes, to increase their competitiveness and thus to promote the european single market as a whole.
in writing. i welcome the signal sent by the ep, which gave the go-ahead for the negotiation of a transatlantic free trade agreement between the eu and the usa, which should embody an 'ambitious and reciprocal opening' between two partners representing together almost half of the world's gdp. while ensuring that the eu does not sacrifice its values and interests (particularly in agriculture, the environment, public health and workers' rights), the prospect of such an agreement is likely to strengthen the eu's stability and economic development.
in writing. i fully support this resolution, as it is a very concise state of play of the trade and economic relations between the eu and the us. it stresses the importance of this bilateral relationship, since it is the most important economic relationship in the world, and at the same time it draws up a very detailed plan of all the aspects to be improved. the potential of this transatlantic relationship is far from being optimised. i therefore support it and am willing to support the removal of non-tariff barriers and regulatory incompatibilities, which would, among other things, lead to a significant increase in gdp in the eu and the us, and would obviously have a decisive impact on growth and employment. in these times of crisis, close cooperation between the eu and the us is needed.
member of the commission. − mr president, in repeated debates in plenary and also in committee, i have made it clear that i am a staunch supporter of a free trade agreement with japan, but also that such support is conditional. we have the scoping exercise and we also have agreement on a number of non-tariff barriers that have to be removed. these cannot be dissociated. it is very clear to me that japan has to deliver on those ntbs, and within a very clear timetable. we have agreed on the roadmap, setting out how to do this. i must say that i am not very pleased at the moment, in fact, because there were a couple of obligations japan should have fulfilled by the end of september, and we are now at the end of october. we should stick to our timetable. i will say this very clearly to our japanese counterparts; i did so as recently as a week ago, and i will say it again. i will also say it to the council, at the council meeting of ministers responsible for trade that will take place on 29 november. we have a clear understanding with the japanese on the scoping exercise and on what needs to be fulfilled and resolved, including for example the zoning problem that has been mentioned by a couple of members. we should take them at their word, and their words should be followed by deeds. i think the review clause that a number of members of parliament mentioned in their speeches – especially the rapporteur, mr kazak – is an essential element. i do not want it to be automatic, however; i do not believe that automaticity is a good negotiating tool. if it should be demonstrated that japan is not fulfilling its commitments, you should summon me before your parliament and ask me why i am not putting an end to the negotiations. i do not believe, however, that it is realistic to expect automaticity to work in negotiations. on sustainability, mr bütikofer, that issue will be part of the negotiations and it will be part of the agreements, as by the way it is in the whole new generation of agreements that we have been negotiating. i also believe that, in the case of japan, there are a number of very important topics in that area that we should address. mr caspary mentioned – although i see that in the meantime he has disappeared – that the only aim of the japanese is to export more cars to europe. i do not know about that. it is very interesting to look at their export figures to europe, because they are gradually going down, not up. they have gone from eur 900 000 down to about eur 600 000 over a couple of years. it is also not true that japan is just exporting smaller cars to europe. japan is in fact exporting cars in the mid- and upper range, so we should take care that when we discuss these matters we do so on the basis of the facts. i have one last remark to make on industrial policy, which mr zalba bidegain mentioned. if i understand his reasoning, it is as follows. if we want industrial production to increase from 16 % to 20 %, then we should take care with the japanese. i believe this is a very defensive strategy or tactic – whatever you want to call it – for a number of reasons. first of all, the industrial production share of gdp is not going to go up from 16 % to 20 %. that simply will not happen. to people who make this claim, my answer is to ask what is going down in that case, to make up the full 100 %. what is going down? services? i cannot see that. could it be agriculture? i do not think we would like that. of course, in your country at the moment the industrial sector’s percentage share of gdp is going up, because you have seen a tremendous dip in real estate, which appears in the statistics as services, whilst the industrial sector as such has not changed. what can go up is the output of the industrial sector, and that is in fact happening. if you look locally at europe, you can see that is what is happening, but not, i believe, in terms of industrial production as a share of gdp. secondly, i believe the kind of economy that we have can only grow if it is in interaction with the other big players on the world market. we have become very interdependent, and that goes for the united states, japan, china and also europe. we have to take that interdependence into account and make sure that our position in that global arena is as strong as possible.
the european automotive industry, which employs 12 million people, has been hit hard by the financial and economic crisis and is facing increasing competition from third countries. today we are faced with the possible start of negotiations on a free trade agreement between the eu and japan. we must be very careful not to put the automobile industry under more pressure. let us look at ford genk in belgium, where there is great social unrest today because of the possible restructuring/closure of the factory. we must ensure that the guarantee we are putting in place today, namely the removal by japan of non-tariff barriers which have an impact on the automobile industry, will be respected in the future. only then can our companies compete fairly with japanese companies. within the year we must assess the removal of non-tariff barriers and on that basis take a decision on a future free trade agreement with japan.
in writing. i remember that some time ago we were a handful of meps who denounced several whole sections of the acta treaty. the text readily transgressed individual freedoms or the processing of personal data, among other things. we have to be very careful not to let the commissioner's words get in the way of our proposals. we were a handful, but, through hard work, we were the majority in rejecting this liberty-killing text. then came ceta, negotiating a trade agreement between europe and canada. i was not surprised to find that the treaty contained whole paragraphs of acta. commissioner de gucht told me not to worry. it is clear that the text has been modified since then, but it still contains some difficult passages. so you will understand that in the new treaty between europe and japan, which we are discussing today, i am again concerned that we will find one or the other trojan horse with new attempts at legislative whitewashing. the citizens of europe would be grateful if you could allay their fears.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the single market is one of the pillars of the european construction and, as you said, commissioner, we are responsible for its proper functioning. the single market act is a strong initiative in this respect and we should all welcome it. we must jointly boost the single market and improve its functioning. you have, commissioner, put forward a good proposal for a directive on the modernisation of public procurement and we are trying, as you said, to improve it in this parliament. we are certainly moving in a constructive spirit towards greater efficiency in public spending, which, as you have very often pointed out, mr commissioner, still represents 19% of the gross domestic product of the european union. we are trying to improve this efficiency in terms of sustainable growth, employment, innovation, social inclusion and compliance but also environmental protection. it is fundamental because it is also from the single market and certain derivatives, because perhaps we have forgotten too much about social harmonization, that the frustrations and doubts of citizens arise because of a competition which has set states against each other, citizens against each other and, in particular, workers against each other, rather than uniting them in a more prosperous europe for all. i would like to give two examples of this directive which are of particular concern to us. it is the fight against uncontrolled subcontracting where the too large cascade generates a loss of public money over each stage. we are simply trying to regulate it, to make it more transparent, because subcontracting is desirable, because it obviously generates better participation by smes in public procurement, which is what we all want, because today there may be a deficit in this respect. we are also concerned about compliance with the rules. the 1994 international labour organization convention is difficult to enforce, since only ten states have ratified it. compliance with existing national rules is equally important. therefore, commissioner, can you join me in the fight for better compliance with the rules which will improve this single market, which will make it more harmonious, at the service of all european citizens?
in writing. the amendment to the 2012 budget tabled by the european commission sends a strong signal to member states to honour their commitments. in april this year, eu education ministers reaffirmed the target of having 20% of european students study abroad for a period by 2020. of course, this must be met with the necessary resources. it is therefore vital for the erasmus programme that the 2012 deficit of eur 90 million be addressed as soon as possible. this is how we prevent students from receiving a lower or no erasmus grant. if there is no agreement soon, it will be the students with the lowest grades who will have to give up their foreign experience. the european union must make a decisive effort to promote education and employment for young people as a way out of the crisis. a foreign experience adds so much to the profile of recent graduates. year after year more students go abroad. now that the erasmus programme is in full swing, it is a bad idea to back off.
in writing. i voted in favour of this procedure. as a reminder, a stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, was already signed in 2008. the amendments tabled in this text by my colleague mr winkler are intended to bring the text into line with the changes made by the omnibus i regulation on trade to the five regulations governing the application of both the stabilisation and association agreements and the interim agreements with the western balkan countries.
in writing. it must be admitted that the cfp (common fisheries policy) has been a failure on the whole for the last 30 years. however, it must also be admitted that in the midst of this chaos, the rule of the 12-nautical-mile zone is one of the few reasons for satisfaction. i therefore followed the rapporteur's advice, in favour of extending the 12 nautical mile zone both in time and space. however, the debate will need to take place within the framework of the wider debate on cfp reform. the current 12-nautical-mile zone is working well, but will expire on 31 december 2012 if the current proposal is not in force by that date. it provides a degree of protection for vulnerable coastal communities; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen concerned are protected.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr moreira's report. the agreement ensures the reciprocal preservation of geographical indications (pdo and pgi) protected by the respective parties. moreover, it properly protects the interests of the union. the agreement under consideration paves the way for the strengthening of trade relations between the european union and moldova and as such deserves to be supported.
in writing. consular protection must be effective, efficient and well coordinated, its primary objective being that citizens can fully enjoy it. i do not think that the proposal gives the european union delegations sufficient responsibility for local consular protection on a day-to-day basis. i think that the union delegations should be given a greater role, including consular responsibilities. the proposal for a directive could therefore have been an opportunity to give the delegations a greater role and to give them the means to play their role to the full. this would be a way of integrating a more european diplomacy, improving the union's visibility and strengthening european citizenship. we must also have a guarantee that fundamental rights will be respected. for example, are we sure that the embassies or consulates of all the member states guarantee the same rights to same-sex couples and their family members? this guarantee is given by the union delegations which are bound by the charter of fundamental rights. i think, however, that a good compromise has been reached on a matter of great importance to the citizens of the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the bauer report. in order to facilitate access by union citizens to their rights, including the right to protection in third countries, a new legislative instrument is needed. the stockholm programme, like the european parliament, advocates common concepts of consular protection. given the growing number of crisis areas, a common approach is needed more than ever.
in writing. - this report is far from exhaustive, especially as regards the expectations of people in border areas. in many cases, they see europe as the solution to the problem - whether it is a crossborder student, worker or employer - rather than the problem as it is today. the single market will never convince the citizens if we do not dare to pursue a coherent economic, fiscal and social policy. and here most countries still pursue a short-sighted 'national' or even regional policy. we are constantly weakening the internal market with 87 different rules where one rule is appropriate, with enormous differences - see tax havens like luxembourg - which completely upset the economic and thus social structures of the surrounding regions. as long as europe does not respond to the most basic questions of its citizens, it will be pouring water on the mills of the eurosceptics, and therefore will be totally untrustworthy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text and i would like to stress in particular the urgency with which the commission must periodically launch european information campaigns with the member states and regional and local authorities in the national, regional and local media to strengthen the dialogue with citizens on the benefits of the single market. on the other hand, i strongly support the call on the commission to develop, together with the member states, a genuine competitive digital single market which serves european consumers and can confidently deliver the socioeconomic benefits that benefit all european consumers. finally, i would like to stress the urgency for the commission and the member states to ensure that passenger rights legislation is properly implemented, but also that european citizens are aware of these rights and the means at their disposal to enforce them.
in writing. the conclusion of a free trade agreement with japan can be beneficial for the eu, its businesses and its workers. i am therefore pleased that the ep has given its consent to the opening of negotiations. however, for these to be successful, it is essential that the negotiators ensure that concessions are made on the japanese side, particularly in the area of the removal of non-tariff barriers or public procurement (particularly for postal services and transport). the ep therefore calls for the negotiations to be automatically suspended if japan does not make the necessary efforts.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. but i do have a few reservations which i hope will be taken into account when the trade agreement is voted on. first of all, i would like to avoid the unpleasant surprise of reading the ceta agreement (eu-canada trade agreement) in which we find many paragraphs from the acta treaty that parliament has rejected. i would therefore like to see it treated in trade agreements as a trade only. secondly, the japanese system does not always allow all our products to be exported. i therefore ask that the conditions for opening up be perfectly reciprocal. i will never be one of those people who advocate backward protectionism. i would nevertheless like to see a debate on the impact of the korean and japanese trade agreements on the european automobile industry.
in writing. − thanks to my green colleague ska keller, first rapporteur on policy coherence for development, we managed to secure a regular reporting on eu policy and its impact on development cooperation. this report is the first monitoring report. at least, that was the idea. it does not expose the weaknesses in the implementation of policy coherence, nor does it provide an overview of the eu's achievements in this area. it did become a global report with a clear vision of what policy coherence should be in relation to development cooperation. and that's good. that is why i voted in favour of the report. it covers five priority policy areas (trade, agriculture and fisheries, climate change and energy, security and migration) and regularly addresses the wound (for example: 'regrets the publication by the commission of two separate reports on trade in general and trade and development, which has proved counterproductive from the point of view of coherence'); the greens have also strengthened the report: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. we also brought in elements on fair trade and conflict minerals.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. policy coherence for development must be based on the recognition of the right of a country or region to define democratically its own policies, priorities and strategies to protect the livelihoods of its people. the breakdown into eight action areas chosen for the period 2011-2014 is a good choice. i would point out, amongst others, the proposed new corporate social responsibility policy, the importance of binding csr obligations and the importance of encouraging employers to apply social standards which are more ambitious than the legal provisions in force, including the possibility of designing and obtaining a label, such as a social label. i would also ask the commission to encourage the member states to monitor strictly the implementation of these obligations. the cfp is not a mere technical issue, it is first and foremost a political responsibility which parliament, as a democratically elected institution and co-legislator, has the essential duty of translating into concrete action.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, in principle i support the european semester, to keep national budgets in control and prevent budget derailing as we have seen over the past years. a monetary union without fiscal discipline will explode. country-specific recommendations make sense but add little new. the imf and the oecd have been making the same recommendations for years. it is like a severely overweight person visiting the doctor. his doctor will tell him ‘you have to lose weight’, but obviously the patient knows this already. the remedy looks very simple – exercise up, calories down, but you have to do it. member states are also recommended to do things they already know and when this is not the case they simply ignore it and live in denial. the number one recommendation for france is that people should work longer, but the first thing mr hollande did was to cut the retirement age. likewise, it remains to be seen if france will take orders from brussels on budgetary policy. french public opinion is mainly in denial about the oversized welfare state. when public sector unions are confronted with facts they start striking and the political leadership of france does little to raise the much-needed awareness. with regard to the economic dialogue, i would like to remind parliament of the exchange of views we had in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) with the finance minister of belgium, mr vanackere. he painted a very rosy picture of the belgian economy. he depicted the belgian economy as a rose garden. a few weeks later it turned out that he had used overly optimistic figures in his presentation. instead of being a top performer, belgium is heading towards recession. its economy is shrinking at a much higher pace than the eurozone average. serious budget cuts are needed. the economic dialogue with belgium was no more than a good news show intended for domestic consumption. the value of such exchange is rather limited. those who live in denial are punished by the facts later on, as was the case with mr vanackere, so the proposed form of the european semester is an exercise in irrelevance. forecasts are far too rosy year after year. the commission wants to spread optimism but predicted growth is often followed by even more contraction. a european semester only works when we stop fooling ourselves, face reality as it is, and act accordingly. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i will be very brief. i was referring to the report by the commission. the imf is much more realistic about what is going on, but the commission wants to spread optimism, hoping that all the troubles will go away by themselves. as members know, that is not the case. the commission is doing this because it is afraid that public opinion will get demoralised, and so the process becomes increasingly messy. that is the wrong basis for doing things. it is better to stick to the facts.
blue-card question. – mr president, i have just one question. the imf, like the commission, is recommending to france that french people should work longer. however, i see that the french president has reduced the retirement age from 62 to 60, whereas most of the countries in the eu have to increase it from 65 to 67. so how does the speaker reconcile that with social policy and solidarity – if the french work less and the rest of the eu has to work more?
in writing. in 2006, i had the opportunity to lead a mission to cambodia to assess the democratic developments in that country. one of the things we saw during this mission was that the functioning of the judiciary was a weak link in the system. the cambodian people were also waiting for the khmer rouge tribunal to be set up. this court, although in place since 2006, does not seem to be functioning efficiently. the court is plagued by financial problems, which has slowed down the pace of hearings, as it cannot finance the staff needed to run the court. moreover, numerous accusations of political interference by the phnom penh regime have been denounced by many international organizations, as for this court. apart from cases of restrictions on freedom of expression, i am particularly appalled, as a member of parliament's committee on agriculture and rural development, by the many cases of displacement of people and dispossession of land for economic purposes. many land rights activists have also been imprisoned in cambodian prisons. it is high time that cambodia showed greater respect for human rights.
in writing. i voted for the text, of course. the role of a mediator is important and even indispensable. the mediator is the link between the citizen and the administrations. it allows them to reconsider their position and has the power to compel them to do so if necessary. the ombudsman registered 2 510 complaints in 2011, compared with 2 667 in 2010. it is also interesting to note that more than 60% of complaints received in 2011 were filed via the internet. in the european spirit, we must meet the citizen on his daily journey and facilitate access to information or to protest. the considerable reduction in the number of requests for information received in recent years (1 000 in 2010, 1 850 in 2009, 4 300 in 2008 and 4 100 in 2007) is a testament to the success of the ombudsman's interactive guide available on his website. it allows interested parties to obtain information without having to make a request. the ombudsman opened 382 inquiries based on complaints and launched 14 additional inquiries on his own initiative, which is proof that the ombudsman can and should also be proactive.
in writing. the emir regulation (european market infrastructure regulation) will introduce mandatory centralised clearing of a significant part of derivatives in the course of 2013. the clearing houses will increasingly concentrate the risks previously borne by banks operating on a contract basis. only clearing houses with banking status will then be subject to ecb supervision. again, the principle of identical supervision for identical activity is to be applied and thus all clearing houses will eventually be included in the scope of the single supervisory mechanism. the proposal to extend the scope of supervision to other sectors is neither realistic nor appropriate in the short term. however, in order to be able to do so in the long term, the ambition to do so must be affirmed now.
in writing. i supported this resolution because it not only encourages russia to continue on the path of open and fair trade but also recalls the eu's concerns about russia's measures to restrict trade. russia has recently adopted measures favouring domestic producers in public procurement, establishing significant seasonal duties on the import of a certain category of sugar and on vehicle recycling. i would remind you that these measures are contrary to international trade and should be abolished. this vote is also a call by parliament for the fight against corruption and for the rule of law. finally, russia's accession to the wto is important for the future of eu-russia relations, particularly in the area of raw materials and energy. i am convinced that this accession will undoubtedly facilitate trade flows between the eu and russia, while stimulating economic growth and job creation.
in writing. i can only regret, in line with the resolution adopted by the ep, the conduct of the parliamentary elections in belarus on 23 september, which did not fully respect the democratic process, making it difficult to recognise the belarusian parliament as having democratic legitimacy. i hope that the political forces and civil society in belarus, with the help of the eu, will succeed in bringing about a transition towards a more open society that respects human rights, where political opponents such as ales bialiatski, mikhail statkevich and zmitser dashkevich will no longer be treated in a degrading manner. i also wanted to stress, as my colleagues did, the need to respect freedom of expression and strongly deplore the detention of journalists.
in writing. belarus is under eu sanctions for its crackdown on dissent, which the eu says has worsened since the controversial re-election of alexander lukashenko in 2010. the recent legislative elections in belarus did not meet international democratic standards. a free election implies that people are free to speak, to organize and to run for office, but we saw none of that during the campaign. furthermore, the electoral authorities lacked "impartiality" and the vote count was more than doubtful. the elections took place in a context which makes it hardly possible to hold free elections. political prisoners are still in jail, and opposition members have been prevented from running for office. it is very clear that president lukashenko, instead of accepting the partnership with europe that is being offered to him, has chosen to pursue a policy of repression.
in writing. meps welcomed the significant progress in the electoral process in the parliamentary elections in georgia, but it should also be stressed that shortcomings still remain. progress was seen in the area of freedoms in particular, allowing for the participation of very active and dynamic citizens and a campaign with competition, even if it was polarized. we must always be strong supporters of the promotion of democracy and reform in georgia. and this will be possible if the elected officials, whether in power or in opposition parties, exercise their democratic privilege in a responsible manner and continue to move forward on the path of reforms for the benefit of the georgian citizens.
mr president, i think it is impossible to have a debate without a conclusion to this debate. it may be, for the time being, a short resolution condemning violence. that is the least this parliament can do. all other considerations may be the subject of a second resolution later in december. i will therefore support the possibility of a very short resolution condemning the violence which is currently the cause of so many deaths in this region. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on shadow banking comes at a very good time. just yesterday, the financial stability board issued its conclusions and recommendations on how to deal with shadow banking. in many respects, these are the same as those which will be put to the vote tomorrow. the shadow banking phenomenon actually encompasses a whole range of very different forms of credit intermediation outside the traditional banking sector and is therefore not subject to the same rules of the game. as the name suggests, it concerns complex, often opaque financial activities over which no one, including no institution or supervisor, has sufficient control. this does not mean that shadow banking could not contribute to the financing of the real economy and therefore cannot be described as positive. but first, there are clearly links between the traditional banking sector and shadow banking in various ways. secondly, we know that there could be potential systemic risks - which also played a role in the financial crisis - and also a shift to shadow banking to escape the supervision and regulation of the traditional banking sector. and thirdly, it is a very large and growing phenomenon, estimated to cover 25 to 30% of the financial sector. for all these reasons, it is necessary to create the necessary instruments to enable the authorities to obtain a global picture of the phenomenon in order to be able to assess the risks and take action if necessary. ideally, we should be able to use the instruments that oxygenate the real economy and can contribute to economic growth without encouraging excessive risk-taking and curbing more speculative or dangerous forms of activity. that is the subject of my report and i thank all my colleagues and in particular the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent cooperation which has led to a number of conclusions which have been widely accepted. i will not go into all of them in detail, but the most urgent one seems to me to be the need for monitoring, the mapping of financial flows. supervisors should have at least a general overview of the size of repurchase transactions and all forms of debt or debt-collection arrangements entered into by institutions. hence the idea of reporting information to a trade repository. there should also be a kind of central eu database of repo transactions. common standards for reporting transactions relating to capital, interest, collateral, valuation adjustments, maturities, consideration, etc. should be developed. there is also a need for a more complete overview of risk transfers by financial institutions in the form of a central register. in fact, we should be able to find answers to simple questions such as 'who should do what to whom and when and at what price'? in addition, the traditional banking sector should be protected by the introduction of a limit on exposure to shadow banking and shadow banking activities initiated by banks should be included in the balance sheet and consolidated. securitisation should be subject to stricter rules to encourage quality products and it should be examined whether there should be no cap on the number of times a financial product can be securitised. finally, a series of recommendations are made with regard to certain specific funds, such as money market funds and index funds, in order to increase transparency and mitigate potential systemic risks. the ball is now in the court of the g20 and the commission. it is clear that we can only formulate a good answer by taking a global, global approach. the institutions and regions concerned must now reorganise themselves over the coming months so that light can finally be shed on that part of the financial world which has been under-reported until now. and that is an absolute must if we are to avoid another financial crisis in the future. we are waiting for the commission's proposals, which will be communicated. we are anxiously awaiting this and then a number of very concrete steps will be taken, which we will of course examine closely as a parliament.
- i'm the reporter. president. - mr president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, when we speak today about the completion of economic and monetary union, we are not having a technical debate but a political debate. what we are doing today is making fundamental choices for the europe we want to leave to our children and grandchildren tomorrow. and yes, in the short term the interests of our member states may differ, but in the long term they are clearly complementary. as representatives of the european people, we have a moral duty to think and act in the long term, to give europeans a bright future. we must also do so in a way that involves our citizens, because ultimately it is they, and they alone, who give us political legitimacy. that, ladies and gentlemen, is the aim of the debate we are having here today. the key words are clear to me: hope and trust. confidence must return because entrepreneurs and families must dare to invest and banks must dare to lend again, because the economic engine must be re-boosted to create growth and jobs. we also need to give people hope. there is a prospect of recovery. we will emerge from this crisis stronger, but only if we act with courage, decisiveness and action. with this report we are sending an unequivocal message to the heads of state and government. the four building blocks of the van rompuy roadmap must be ambitious. we are thus indicating that european banking supervision must be brought into being, that the two proposals for regulations must be treated as one legislative package, on which we can take part in the decision-making process. that the quality of supervision should be high within a european mechanism accountable to parliaments. that the member states participating, whether by compulsory or opt-in, should have equal rights in the supervisory board of such a mechanism and that we as parliament will complete our work in time so that we can hopefully officially launch this mechanism on 1 january. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms and will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms. we can then look at whether and in what sense it is necessary to work towards more european systems. the budgetary union is of course important, mr president, because sound public finances are essential and absolutely necessary. the first thing to do with budgetary union is to stick to and implement what we have decided in this house alone: the six-pack. if it is up to us, this week the trialogue in connection with the two-pack should be completed. we also need to work on the revenue side. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the rapid introduction of the ftt and the ccctb, whether or not through closer cooperation, is essential. parliament can be in favour of a gradual transition to a debt relief fund if the strict conditions are met, because we certainly cannot risk an adventure in this area. and, of course, we must complete everything through a stronger economic union to really aim at sustainable economic growth with more employment and greater social cohesion. we need structural reform now to reap the benefits in the future. we must have a better business climate, we must have a sense of investment, we must complete the internal market, we must have a midterm review of the 2020 strategy and we must of course also call for increased attention, and we are doing so, to a number of basic social principles which we have incorporated into a social pact. and that fourth building block: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. it is of course essential, because without a democratic foundation no policy can stand the test of time. president. - ladies and gentlemen, what we have to do today cannot be delayed. we will make clear choices today and then it will be up to the heads of state or government.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i think we all now understand why we are talking about the 'four presidents' and not the 'five presidents minus one'. they did not want to involve parliament because we are well aware of the difference between a paper by van rompuy, which becomes more and more vague with each edition, and the one that marianne thyssen is putting forward on behalf of us all. the difference in ambition is glaring. it is obvious that either the european parliament would have found itself very uncomfortable among a group of presidents who were ultimately very unambitious, or it would have had difficulty in making its voice heard because it was clearly in the minority with this level of ambition. marianne thyssen has made it clear: europe needs a federal seal. none of us can do it alone, not even germany! i hope that the economic turnaround that is now hitting, including germany, will help our german friends to realize that we are all in this together. marianne thyssen shows ambition in all aspects of what this federal europe should become. on the budgetary side, marianne thyssen dares, on behalf of us all, to challenge a number of taboos and, in particular, to make it clear that we must work not only on budgetary expenditure but also on revenue, and that we cannot ensure sufficient budgetary revenue without moving from a competitive to a cooperative register. the same applies to the question of debt pooling, which has obviously become a word that herman van rompuy is no longer able to write. he probably forgot how to spell it or what it means. in any case, parliament dares to write that in its report. it is an absolute necessity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. how else can we understand the idea of making the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, which is nothing more than the investment strategy of the european union, more binding? i am very pleased that mrs corien wortmann-kool herself has stressed the need for action in this direction. we cannot, in my view, have an economic policy without having an extremely robust investment component. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. this is another statement that in other circles is completely taboo. let's see what this week's council has to say. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome one. where a taboo is really broken is on the question of social union. it is true that this is a difficult subject: we all have a different history in terms of social security and social protection systems, but this report affirms the need for a form of social convergence but not downwards. i think this is again an ambitious move by the european parliament. finally, the democratic union. it was on this subject that we were waiting for the 'five presidents minus one' who have already delivered us, before the summer, two reports in which the democratic chapter is becoming increasingly diluted. it is not enough to say in parliament's report that parliament would do well to exchange views with national parliaments from time to time. this text proposes to give this parliament, which is the parliament of the european union and the parliament of the euro area, real powers of decision-making and of forming the broad lines of economic and social policy on our continent. i would just like to conclude by saying that we are running out of time. today, one in four europeans is at risk of poverty and social exclusion. one in four of our fellow citizens! the hungarian speaker reminded us of this. you can't tear apart the fabric of society with impunity. when you add to that this week's reminder from the world bank that we are exploding the physical limits of the planet and that climate change itself carries risks to human existence, i think we need to realize that time is running out and we need to act now. we know that if we do not do this, we risk seeing this continent sink into nothing but violence.
member of the commission. - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking each and every one of you for the quality of this debate, the frankness of your words. at the beginning, mrs berès, who is here, and also mr klute and many other members of parliament, mentioned something very important: the need for balance in everything we do. you mentioned this new social pillar, this social dimension that is missing or would be missing in everything we do. i feel concerned and i think the commission should be concerned by this question. my belief, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have finally brought a comprehensive response to all these crises. that is why, after the summit on 29 june, there was a rather favourable response, a certain calm in the markets, because after two or three years of urgently responding, with our backs to the wall, all the responses have been put together, including those on growth. i think that in order for this to work, in order to win back what mrs thyssen called the battle of trust and hope, we must at all costs include in this overall response, or rather ensure that this overall response does include this pillar or this human, social and civic dimension. in any case, ladies and gentlemen, it was with this conviction that i returned to the commission three years ago. it is with this conviction that i work with my colleagues. and precisely, beyond words, if you look closely at what i have proposed to you in the single market act, with your support and that of your committee on the internal market, you will clearly find this balance with several major levers devoted to social cohesion, services, public services and social entrepreneurship. mr cercas said earlier that he had a blind faith in the markets. i have no blind faith in the markets. i don't believe in self-regulating the markets. we have been either naive in the past or sometimes too confident in this self-regulation, in this deregulation, in the last 15 or 20 years. we can learn from this. the 28 texts i have proposed to you, on the lessons of the crisis - as the g20 has asked us to do - are proof that we are restoring order, governance, transparency and simply morality where they have disappeared. i also want to say more specifically that, in the context of economic and monetary union, we must strengthen coordination in employment policy and social policy as a key factor in the success of economic and monetary union. you will find this concern in the union 2020 objectives, with several priorities on employment, education, social inclusion, in the european semester which gives them priority importance. i also believe that in the effort to maintain budgetary discipline and stability, which is logically required of many member states, particularly in the euro area, we must be very selective in order to preserve solidarity expenditure or expenditure that preserves or prepares for the future, particularly in the area of education and research. i would like to say to mr gualtieri that i agree that we must improve ex ante coordination of budgetary policy, which is one of the keys to economic coordination. mrs wortmann-kool, mr strejček and, more recently, mr zalba bidegain have all referred to banking union. i want to confirm that in building this banking union we are starting with the first stone, namely supervision, and i remind you that there are other elements of this banking union on your table, in terms of deposit guarantees or the resolution of banking crises. we are also - i say to mrs wortmann-kool - very careful about the calibration of the measures we are taking to consolidate the banks. it's one of the keys to stability. this good calibration is also one of the keys to banks returning to their role of financing the economy, the territories and, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises. in this spirit, mr president, i shall be engaging in a debate with you in the coming weeks on the financing of longterm investment in the european union through a green paper. i would like to reply to mr hoang ngoc who, a moment ago, criticized the commission for being, in a way, the cause of the crisis through its decisions. i am not going to argue with you, but in the following sentence, mr hoang ngoc, you argued somewhat the contrary, saying: 'banking union must be established, we must have more supervision'. this is precisely what the commission does in all its proposals. i think we should be fair to each other, even if you're right to be demanding. i'll be answering several of you by telegraph. to mrs swinburne: yes, we must build a clear and solid legal framework for the banking union. you talk about the big banks, but there are not only big banks. i want to remind you that many of the banks that have been or are currently in trouble - northern rock, bankia, dexia - are not among the big or very big banks. there is therefore a need for effective supervision, in general and in the euro area in particular, of banks that present risks. to mr klinz: i do not think that parliament is being left out of the banking union, even though the idea for the proposal came from the commission and the european council. you are dealing with a package, with a directive and a regulation, and you will decide on that package. i am very attentive to what parliament says, particularly on democratic control, to what several of your colleagues have said - i will come back to that - on the integrity, unity and coherence of the single market. so parliament is not, in my mind, on the sidelines. on the contrary, he has a very important opinion to give. mrs ford, mr hökmark and mrs herzog spoke of the unity of the euro area. i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that when we talk about regulation, we are talking about a regulation for the 27 countries of the european union, the single rule book, only one single rule book - a uniform regulation. this is a different thing because within the euro area, there is more interdependence between member states - you can see it - more interdependence between banks. there is therefore a legitimate need for more effective, integrated and coherent surveillance. that's what this banking union is about. it is therefore a matter of regulation by twenty-seven, and in the euro zone first of all, of more integrated supervision, but open to those countries which are not, or are not yet, members of the euro zone and which would like to participate. this is precisely what we are working on at the moment to create the conditions for this fair and even equal association of non-euro-area countries that would like to participate in this supervision. i would also like to agree with mrs goulard, who said that one of the keys to credibility is to do what we say and i believe that our main task now vis-à-vis the citizens is to show that what has been decided we are implementing. mr kariņš also mentioned earlier how to build a house properly. again, the credibility of everything we do comes from sharing our responses, as was done on 29 june. it is a great quality of the thyssen report to mention all these dimensions, and i am doing so on the single market. this is what my colleague olli rehn is doing on the subject of economic governance. mrs int veld has just mentioned something important, namely the risk of national or nationalist retreat, which is usually accompanied by protectionist measures. we must also be very careful in our political and economic responses not to give rise to these risks of national retreat. i often say that the single market could be the first victim of national or protectionist setbacks, even though it is paradoxically our first chance and our first asset to get out of this crisis. as regards the answers to be given, mrs ferreira was just now referring to another important subject on which my colleague mr tajani is working, namely the answer through industrial policy. it is not through protectionist measures, but through a clear and fair management of our trade relations, as well as through investment, through the mobilisation of our resources to recreate or consolidate a productive base in europe. mr. lamberts mentioned the federal seal. it's not a word that shocks me personally. i understand the impatience, sometimes the regret, that we are not going fast enough and far enough, but i want to point out, to be fair, that when you look at the contents of the six-pack, the two-pack or the banking union, you see not only a good association of the european parliament, and that is right, but also steps towards greater integration, towards the sharing of european policies and destinies. mr terho rightly referred earlier to the euro zone's inadequacies, initially, the shortcomings we are in the process of filling with all these governance measures. that is what my colleague olli rehn does. to mr hans-peter martin, a word: the banking union interests the citizens, ladies and gentlemen, precisely because of the work we are doing to ensure that the taxpayers who have been asked too often to pay the consequences of the mistakes of a certain number of banks or bankers, of bad management, of intelligent supervision, of the inadequacies of supervision and of management errors, when it was not a matter of manipulation. that's enough! the taxpayers must no longer be asked, and that is precisely what we are seeking to achieve through supervision, governance and resolution. all the measures we are taking, which i am proposing to you, are designed to prevent, to prevent crises and to ensure that when crises occur, it is the shareholders or other participants in these banks who pay, not the taxpayers. finally, i would like to say to mr olle schmidt, mr hökmark, mrs corien wortmann-kool and mrs hübner that i am very concerned about the integrity of the single market. that is why i have made the distinction between the financial regulation we are making and the way in which the banking sector is supervised in the euro area, but in a way that is open to countries that would like to do so. finally, i would like to thank mrs thyssen for the quality of this report. it is an important report that you have presented and it has been very widely supported. i think, as you do, that we must strengthen democratic control even further, and pay attention to the national parliaments. you have a very important role to play in this respect, in building links with national parliaments and avoiding breaks or fractures in everything we do in terms of integration. mr hoang ngoc said earlier that you had invited yourself to the democratic debate with this report. i don't think you invited each other. i think that the european parliament is necessary in the debate on economic and monetary union. it is also because you are the only european institution directly elected by the citizens that i think you are necessary that this report, mrs thyssen, is extremely important at this time.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - the mr president, i will try to be brief. i have listened carefully to all the speeches, comments and questions put by the honourable members of the european parliament. i would like to refer to mr simon's intervention on the deposit guarantee scheme. we recognise the importance and role of the system as one of the key elements of the single rulebook that will underpin the banking union. the discussions on this proposal are inextricably linked to the proposal on the resolution and recovery of banks. the member states therefore consider that the deposit guarantee scheme cannot be promoted unless the financing details are clarified in this proposal. i will certainly, however, convey your labelling to the relevant minister. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training, the establishment of a european centre for vocational training and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training. the october european council agreed to explore ways of ensuring a proper debate in the european semester, both in the european parliament and in national parliaments. i would add that the member states which are parties to the treaty on stability, coordination and governance in economic and monetary union intend to improve cooperation between national parliaments and the european parliament. the european council in brussels in december last year, in the context of the european council in brussels, expressed the hope that the european union would be able to take action in the field of social policy, and that the european council in brussels in december would be able to take action in the field of social policy. austerity policies take this into account as far as possible; the commission has also taken the view that the community's financial resources should be used to support the development of the common agricultural policy. my country is no exception. it is clearly very important that we continue to have a strong dialogue on this subject between ourselves, that is between the two institutions that we represent. the deepening of economic and monetary union will require a more active involvement of all the institutions, including this parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we all agree that an ambitious european plan must be adopted at the european council in december and that, as mrs thyssen has said, the new measures to be included in this plan must mark the beginning of a renewed relationship of trust. we believe that this meeting is very useful and that it demonstrates in practice that the european parliament has a very substantial role to play in the whole process, both in the basis and in the mid-term evaluation of mrs thyssen's report. the cooperation between the european parliament and the council is already very close and mr van rompuy has on many occasions invited mr schulz to present the european parliament's positions. the council wishes to involve the european parliament actively and makes every effort to strengthen its voice. i can assure you that we are listening to your concerns and taking them into account in our work, while looking forward to further strengthening our cooperation. thank you for this interesting discussion. i shall convey to the council and to the president of the european council the issues raised.
- i'm the reporter. president. - i have three points to make. i would like to thank the presidency of the council and commissioner barnier for the positive words on the report, but i would also like to express the hope that we can end the journey towards genuinely strengthening economic and monetary union in the same positive cooperation. because in the end, actions speak louder than words. secondly, this report is the product of intense collaboration between many colleagues. firstly, the rapporteur, mr gualtieri, the rapporteur for opinions of the various committees and all the econ shadow rapporteurs. thank you very much for that, colleagues. thirdly, mr president, i should like to say something about constructive cooperation. constructive cooperation is not only pleasant and not only good because it is pleasant, but it is good above all because it is a testimony to the fact that we want the determined in this house, and that the political skills are also present to write a vision that we share, that we want to share across national borders and across party and group boundaries. that, ladies and gentlemen, is what the citizens expect of us. we are their representatives. we must fight for our rights to make their voices heard, but above all we must find solutions to their problems. people do not want an endless game of ping-pong between institutions or parties, they want us to be able to overcome differences of opinion by means of an exchange of views, and above all they want all these exchanges of views to lead to actual decisions. and that brings me back to my starting point: actions speak louder than words and we will all be judged by them.
the commission’s latest survey on economic recovery in industry shows that since 2008 almost 10% of jobs in the manufacturing industry have been lost. last year industrial production was 3% lower than the year before. however, there is some good news as the value of exports went up last year. but at the same time we know that our industrial base is changing. this requires companies to change their business models, and workers to change their skills and become more flexible and it also requires governments to make their regulations and policies much more modern and to display a clear vision. my question is therefore twofold. how can the commission help in a very tangible way to create a context in which markets will rejuvenate and modernise existing industries and, at the same time, allow the process of creative destruction to go ahead, do its work and create new niche markets? i think that additional tools have to be found to make additional finance for r&d available and also to bring this r&d into the market and bridge the value of that for new products. also regarding workers’ skills, i think the commission should really push forward to ensure that member states implement new policies to ensure that workers acquire the new skills needed for new industries.
mr president, i would just like to ask one question. we all know that our industry is going through a process of transformation. it is therefore really important not only to stimulate r&d, but also to bring those products to the market. this is an area where europe is clearly lagging behind compared to other continents. so maybe i could ask an additional question on that; how will the commission help, not only to promote r&d, but also to bring those products and services to the market?
the authorities will be informed of your outrage over this matter. i suggest you start work now.
you have had your say and we are done with this incident. i would like to inform you that in accordance with rule 3 (4) of the rules of procedure, the committee on legal affairs, at its meeting on 6 november 2012, verified the credentials and unanimously proposed that the mandate of ms patricia van der kammen be confirmed with effect from 3 october 2012. i suggest you give the warrant a go. are there any observations? this mandate is therefore valid.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
this closes the voting.
the rules state that when there is no debate on the subject, there is no explanation of vote. i am therefore sorry, but i cannot give you the floor, under the rules. i'm sorry about that.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. the proper functioning of the internal market requires clear rules on jurisdiction and the improvement and acceleration of the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the speed of procedures and legal certainty are essential requirements in this respect at a time when the increase in trade between individuals and economic operators from different member states is leading to an increase in litigation.
in writing. on tuesday 20 november, a large majority of meps voted in favour of the report presented by jan mulder to restrict private access to chemicals. if the text is adopted by the council, it will become much more difficult to buy large quantities of chemicals, which can be used to make homemade bombs. while this is clearly not a sufficient guarantee to prevent the construction of homemade bombs with complete certainty, it is nevertheless an important step in the right direction.
in writing. handmade explosives are among the weapons of terrorists. chemicals that are generally considered harmless and readily available to the general public can be used in the manufacture of dangerous explosive devices. it is therefore important to limit private users' access to high-risk chemicals through a system of licensing and registration of transactions. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the illegal manufacture of improvised explosives should therefore be made more difficult by setting concentration limits for substances which may be used as precursors to explosives. the proposal as such will not stop all terrorists or guarantee total protection, but it will significantly limit access to these products.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report so that substances or mixtures which could be used in a circumventing way for the illegal manufacture of explosives are regulated in a harmonised and non-differentiated way between member states. in particular, i stress the urgency of formulating rules which ensure at national and community level the safety of workers and the protection of the environment, areas not covered by this regulation.
in writing. this regulation is particularly urgent: it should enter into force at the latest on the date of accession of croatia, otherwise recruitment, especially of linguists, will be compromised, and this will affect the ability of the institutions to work in croatian, which will then have become an official language of the union. croatian officials and other servants may be recruited only from the effective date of accession of croatia. the croatian staff recruited before that date will have contractual status, at least as things stand.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament has given its consent to the ratification by the european union of the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution (...), or the 'offshore protocol'. as the envi committee has already said, it is essential to do everything possible to avoid oil and gas accidents in the mediterranean such as the deepwater horizon accident and to ensure 'greater safety in oil and gas activities'. while this protocol alone will not solve the problem of the sustainable management of mediterranean resources, it is already a first step in this direction, which will have to be followed by others.
in writing. the importance of preserving the environment, alongside economic development, is quite clear, especially when it comes to a semi-enclosed sea like the mediterranean. i am a firm believer in the principle that freedom of enterprise must be guaranteed so that it can develop anywhere and at any time. but freedom of enterprise must also be combined with security measures. only in this way could the natural environment be preserved and businesses based not on short-term profit but on long-term development be able to operate.
in writing. i am very sensitive to issues relating to nature conservation. i therefore voted in favour of this text. a policy of sustainable governance of offshore oil and gas activities is, i believe, indispensable! the need for increased safety of offshore oil and gas activities is dramatically illustrated by recent accidents, especially the oil spill caused by the deepwater horizon oil rig in the gulf of mexico in 2010: it is likely that offshore activities will develop in the mediterranean following the discovery of new fossil fuel reserves and such an accident could have immediate and wide-ranging effects in a semi-enclosed sea such as the mediterranean. it would also have dramatic consequences for its fragile economy and ecosystems and would undermine the efforts of the mediterranean coastal member states of the union to achieve and maintain the good ecological status of their marine waters required by the marine strategy framework directive.
in writing. the current fisheries partnership agreement with greenland appears to be consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy. i also think it is important that this agreement is in line with the principle of sustainable fishing. it is mutually beneficial and represents an interesting milestone for cooperation between the union and greenland, as well as for nordic cooperation in the field of fisheries resources.
in writing. the common market must not only be an economic and social area but also a political one: it is important that the european union ensures that european citizens can easily stand for election to the european parliament in a state other than their state of origin. i therefore welcome the introduction of simplified procedures in this respect, after several years of deadlock at council level. it is now essential to ensure that these measures can be implemented in practice in 2014.
in writing. − this report deals with a question raised during the last european parliament elections in 2009, namely whether a candidate can stand for election in a member state of which he is not a national. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament is not a matter of where you come from, but of how much you are willing to do for a particular region. today, many eu citizens choose to leave their country of origin and establish a centre of life in another country. if someone decides to do so, i do not see any reason why he should not be able to take part in political activities there. i therefore welcome the improvement, albeit slight, through administrative simplification envisaged in this report. this concerns the administrative authorities, which must check whether a candidate has lost his right to vote in his own member state. this simplification is to take effect for the next elections in 2014.
in writing. i support the draft council directive amending directive 93/109/ec of 6 december 1993 as regards certain procedures for the exercise of the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament for citizens of the union residing in a member state of which they are not nationals. the amendment reduces part of the burden on national authorities to check whether someone has been prevented from standing as a candidate in their own state. this amendment will facilitate the situation in terms of administrative convenience for the potential candidate and for the states concerned.
in writing. it is important to relax the obligations imposed on union citizens residing in a member state of the european union of which they are not nationals in order to stand for election to the european parliament. it is necessary to allow candidates to stand in more than one constituency in the same election to the european parliament, regardless of residence qualifications, and to improve the regulation of general voting rights in the states of residence.
in writing. − companies offering consumer credit must provide consumers with correct and clear information about their offers. however, the implementation of the eu consumer credit directive by member states by mid-2010 is still lacking. it was found that 70% of the websites where financial institutions offer consumer credit agreements either lack important information or misrepresent the cost. this is especially true for crossborder loans, where easy-to-understand information on foreign currency loans and the cost of ancillary services is essential in the choice of loan. i very much welcome the discovery of the existing shortcomings in the implementation of the consumer credit directive. this is another example of the eu creating a single directive from 27 different national rules to benefit consumers, but the member states are not implementing it correctly, thus missing the purpose of the directive, which is to protect consumers.
in writing. in times of economic crisis, consumption is the most appropriate way to boost the economy and productivity. given that household consumption forms the basis of general consumption, it is all the more important to ensure consumer protection and continuity of consumption. this is only possible if there are common measures in the member states. given the cross-border nature of borrowing, the availability of information on the possibilities of consumption, but also on the risks, is important. to this end, i find measures (1) requiring financial institutions to provide consumers with personalised, complete and easily understandable information on the risks associated with foreign currency loans, well before they are contractually bound, to be entirely appropriate. (2) to encourage financial institutions to pay particular attention to the granting of consumer credit repayable over five years and not to grant any consumer credit guaranteed by the consumer's home when the consumer does not have a sufficient salary.
in writing. as belgium, one of the six founding member states of the european union, has just concluded its 2013 budget without an ambitious stimulus plan in terms of growth and consumer purchasing power, the european parliament today adopted a motion for a resolution on consumer credit agreements. this vote is important in terms of consumer protection. the european union countries were supposed to implement this directive by 11 june 2010. however, some member states, including belgium, have been late in transposing all or some of the provisions of the directive. the delay was mainly due to the short transposition period of two years and the size of the legislation concerned. the directive has two objectives: (1) to ensure a high level of consumer protection and (2) to strengthen the internal market for crossborder consumer credit. parliament called on the commission to examine the transposition of the directive and to make a clear assessment of its impact on citizens in the context of the financial crisis we are currently experiencing.
in writing. − while there is still work to be done, the 2008 consumer credit directive contains all the elements necessary to better protect consumers from banks and other creditors. that is the conclusion of the interim evaluation report which is before us and which i voted for. the directive provides for (pre-) contractual information for consumers, harmonisation of the 14-day cooling-off period, protection in the event of early repayment of debts and the obligation to check consumers' creditworthiness in advance. the mid-term evaluation highlights problems with the transposition of the directive. there are specific problems with the information obligation: not all lenders inform consumers correctly, or give too much detailed information that is no longer understandable. the right to change your mind is not always respected, there is still no uniformity in the assessment of the creditworthiness of customers and there is a growing problem with sms loans, especially for vulnerable groups and young people. the ability to pay back early works pretty well. i agree with the rapporteur that all the elements are in the directive, but that there is a need for better monitoring of the transposition and implementation of the law.
in writing. as the member of parliament responsible for consumer protection, i believe that the consumer credit directive pursues two objectives which are of paramount importance to the consumer: a high level of consumer protection and the strengthening of the crossborder internal market for consumer credit. the commission should now look at the transposition of the directive and insist on its correct application in the member states. finally, a thorough evaluation of the legal and practical implications of the directive should be carried out before considering, if necessary, amendments to the directive on the basis of this evaluation.
in writing. the economic and social crisis europe is currently experiencing cannot be addressed by setting stricter budgetary criteria alone. while this is necessary, we must also give hope to all citizens by ensuring that they have jobs and a decent life. i am therefore pleased that parliament has voted in favour of a renewed approach to social investment in europe, one which considers social investment not as sterile costs or expenditure but as investment expenditure, the dividends of which will benefit the whole community.
in writing. we are going through a serious economic and financial crisis. it is likely to have long-term and severe effects on many citizens. the european economy, but also the employment rate, public saving and social investment in europe are directly affected by the slowdown. most recent and current responses to the crisis are based on short-term objectives to bring public finances back to a sustainable level, which is essential for the union's economy. in this context, however, we must not overlook the negative effects that these austerity measures could have on employment and competitiveness in europe and we must combine them with measures that are favourable to growth and employment, such as well-targeted social investment.
in writing. i am in favour of promoting local markets and short-term supply chains in areas which may require a european-wide approach. individual projects must be financed under rural development policy, which can be adapted to local situations. on the other hand, promotional actions should draw attention to a 'taste of europe' that is both authentic, varied and of high taste quality for the consumer. this approach applies to internal as well as external promotion. the union must strive to export a sustainable model of agriculture and the products derived from it. consumers often buy "concepts" when choosing their food, as the example of fair trade products illustrates.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. the 'right of succession' directive was designed with a dual objective: to ensure that authors of graphic and plastic works of art have an economic share in the success of their creations, on the one hand, and to harmonise the application of the right of succession in the european union, on the other. the report calls on the commission to work closely with stakeholders to strengthen the position of the european art market and to address certain difficulties, such as the 'cascade effect'.
in writing. i voted in favour of these amendments. in the wake of the economic and financial crisis, parliament was keen to join its efforts with those of the member states and undertook to take a series of measures to achieve savings. the three amendments are, in short, about the irrelevant, because underused, translations of the cre.
in writing. the importance of the motorcycle as a means of transport continues to grow from year to year. it is therefore necessary to lay down transparent, simple, harmonised and consistent rules on the safety, type-approval and environmental protection of such vehicles which are beneficial for both undertakings and users. drivers of these vehicles are a vulnerable group, with one of the highest rates of injury and death among all road users. it is therefore important to introduce essential and effective safety measures in order to provide drivers with vehicles equipped with the safest technologies at a reasonable price. i also share the view that strict limits on emissions of pollutants should be introduced.
in writing. - i welcome this report because it replaces the 24 directives currently in force on the construction of agricultural and forestry vehicles, such as tractors, trailers and the equipment pulled by them, by only one. this reduction in regulation ensures efficient and forward-looking simplification in this sector, as it has also been ensured that the current level of protection is not lowered. this level of protection covers safety and environmental aspects which are now being harmonised across the eu, thus also preventing fragmentation of the internal market due to different national product standards.
in writing. i would like to highlight the excellent work of my colleague mr panzeri on this issue. i agree with his conclusions. it has worked on the commission's proposal and ensured that the result is to further promote the competitiveness of the sector by simplifying the current legislation, while taking into account our opinion in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. agricultural and forestry tractors may be excluded from the scope of the machinery directive provided that the new regulation and its delegated acts transfer the provisions laid down in that directive, which currently apply to tractors, in order to avoid any legal loophole and to ensure that the current level of safety is maintained.
in writing. the diversity of payment instruments is constantly expanding both at european and global level. while new modes of using internet and mobile payments appear to be emerging rapidly and are of interest to consumers and businesses alike, even the card payment market is still far from exploiting its full potential and efficiency. the markets for card, internet and mobile payments are still fragmented in the european union. there are also significant differences between member states in the use of card payments. the process of creating the single euro payments area (eupe) facilitates bank transfers in 32 european countries, and by 2014 all participating countries will have to have implemented the common eupe standards. in my view, since the eupe will bridge the gap between national and crossborder payments, the aim of integrating the card payments market should make crossborder payments as convenient as payments at national level. it would be good to have more crossborder actors in this field.
in writing. at a time when belgium has just recapitalised dexia to the tune of eur 2.9 billion, shadow banking, a parallel banking system covering entities not subject to banking regulation (securitisation funds, hedge funds, commercial banks, money funds, etc.) remains problematic. although the g20 adopted a series of regulatory measures aimed at making the financial system safer and more sustainable following the financial crisis of 2007, this shadow finance, connected to the conventional banking system, is still poorly or not very well regulated. valued at €67 trillion in 2011 (compared with €26 trillion in 2002), half (46%) of this is supplied by europe, a trend that is continuing to increase. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
in writing. in order to have a complete picture of the shadow banking system, more and more reliable data and analytical capabilities are urgently needed. the ecb should play an important role in this respect. the initiative to create a data bank for pension transactions can be decisive in achieving transparency. in addition, in order to shed light on risk transfers in the financial sector and to be able to determine who has bought what, from whom and with what support the transferred risks are associated, the commission should urgently examine whether the creation of a public body is feasible. in addition, this data analysis exercise should identify those aspects of the shadow banking system that have a positive impact on the real economy and those that present systemic risks or raise concerns in regulatory arbitrage, such as excessive maturity or liquidity transformation, leverage and regulatory arbitrage. once these systemic risks have been identified, it seems to me essential to be able to deal with them by improving their control and regulation. my colleague el khadraoui proposes in this text a number of very interesting ideas.
in writing. internet is becoming more and more important in most households. the child discovers the canvas at a very early age, before even entering school and learning to read and write. these young internet users are therefore exposed to multiple risks, such as child pornography and sexual exploitation, which must be curbed at european level. i think that, in the same way that it is impossible to put a "gendarme" behind every "deviant and perverted" user, it is equally difficult to put a parent behind every child. the majority of computer skills are acquired well before the age of 18, and the changing family lifestyle means that teenagers, sometimes left to themselves or left alone at home after school, are now receiving sexual proposals more often than in the past. this is why parents, teachers, civil society, internet service providers, businesses and public authorities need to work together to protect children from online abuse and crime. because the whole problem of the growing vulnerability of young people on the internet and social networks must be taken into account, it seemed to me more than legitimate and even necessary to support this report.
in writing. the protection of children, especially on the internet and social networks, is a major policy issue that needs to be extended at the level of the european union. that is why i welcome the adoption this afternoon by the european parliament of a resolution on the protection of children in the digital world. the internet revolution is becoming more and more important in most families, often leaving parents baffled by the technological "precocity" of their children. most computer skills are acquired well before the age of 18. young people on the internet are exposed at an increasingly early age to the dangers of digital technology: violent games and videos, but also and especially the risks of coming into contact with deviant adults and even members of child pornography networks. so, of course, it is not a question of putting a "gendarme" behind each user, nor of imposing on parents a systematic control of their child "surfing the web", but of having a global approach. parents, teachers, internet service providers, businesses, public authorities and law enforcement agencies should also join forces to best protect children, who are particularly vulnerable and exposed to the most serious abuses, on the internet and social networks.
in writing. i am in full support of this text which deals with a theme which should not be underestimated. as a reminder, a few figures that i think are very striking: young europeans spend up to 40 hours a week watching television, they spend 88 minutes a day on the internet, usually from the age of nine, but some are exposed to the internet much earlier, before they even enter school and learn to read and write. member states need to commit to protecting children in the digital world. the european citizens should also be given the opportunity to better understand the cultural and economic dimension of all types of media related to digital technology and to contribute to the achievement of the lisbon objectives by fostering the emergence of a knowledge-based economy and boosting competitiveness.
in writing. - europe is in crisis. there are more and more unemployed, more and more elderly, more and more people in need of care, more and more poverty, and more than ever there is a need for a greener economy that takes care of the planet and its people. to meet these challenges, the european parliament proposes to support the necessary investments and experimental projects in social entrepreneurship. the key measures proposed by the commission can provide a useful basis for this, for example a map of social entrepreneurship in europe, the creation of a certification database or extensive information platforms on mutual learning. the development of a kind of quality label for social enterprises could also be very helpful for their further development. social enterprises have a public utility, a social utility, and social and environmental effects. they have enhanced profit-margin or employee participation models, as well as principles of openness and transparency. the report rightly advocates orderly competition (no competition in price or quality between densely populated areas and rural areas), social banking and social franchise models. social enterprises deserve our support, they are key players in the social economy and social innovation.
in writing. i supported the becker report to accelerate the establishment of a multilingual platform to enable team learning and the exchange of best practice which should facilitate the sharing of information on access to finance and training opportunities and serve as a network for cross-border cooperation. in addition, the proposed measures, such as a map of social entrepreneurship in europe, a certification database or large-scale information platforms for mutual learning, could prove particularly useful.
in writing. in these times of economic and social crisis, it is vital that europe starts to create hope again. i therefore welcome the vote on the report by my colleague, mrs marianne thyssen, on economic and monetary union. as the report states, it is essential to add a social dimension to the stricter monitoring of budgetary policies, which cannot be an end in itself. i also welcome the emphasis on the need to strengthen democratic legitimacy (i.e. of the european parliament) in return for greater economic and budgetary integration.
in writing. i am in favour of greater parliamentary control over the four strands of emu: banking union, budgetary union, economic union and political union. as guy verhofstadt has written: 'the euro can only survive if a federal union is established with a european government setting economic, fiscal and fiscal policy.' the report reinforces the democratic character of the institutions by emphasising the participation of citizens and national parliaments; by requiring all new authorities to report regularly; by establishing an open procedure for the appointment of the president of the governing council of the ecb. the authority would then be obliged to explain its decisions to the national parliaments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the thyssen report because it sends a strong message to the european council: europe must be more democratic and more social. to restore confidence in the euro, stronger european institutions are needed: i have been promoted from european finance minister to european banking supervisor. we must also strengthen democratic control. a future european finance minister is accountable to the european parliament on an individual basis. the president of the european banking supervision mechanism, which is due to come into force as early as 2013, needs to be approved and monitored by the ep. the european semester, the procedure for assessing the financial and economic policies of the eu countries, must be democratized. the ep must have control over the guidelines adopted by the commission. national parliaments must discuss in advance the reform plans submitted by their governments to the commission. the reforms, cuts and investments that governments commit to under the european semester should be more rigorously assessed for their impact on employment and social protection. so, in addition to a banking union, a budgetary union, an economic union and a democratic union, there is a fifth pillar: the social union. the eu must not be blind to the social consequences of the crisis: poverty and unemployment are increasing.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution but i want to be very clear: there can be no complete economic and monetary union without democracy and a social pact. if this is not the case, the result will be increased competition between member states and social dumping. and as for the federal transition, i can assure you, it cannot be successful without solidarity, without social progress and without democratic progress!
in writing. − as the economic and monetary links between the european union become closer, coordination of the economic policy-making of the member states is important. it is equally important that the institutions which ensure the functioning of monetary union are transparent and subject to democratic control. at the same time, i cannot agree with several sections of the action plan. first, the gradual creation of a debt-relief fund, which would accumulate public debt exceeding 60% of the gdp of individual euro-area member states, would reduce the individual responsibility of the countries. it is already apparent that some member states are unable to enact the necessary legislative measures to reduce their external debt. the creation of a common fund does not repay its debt. secondly, i do not support the long-term plan for a common issuance of debt securities in the euro area. eurobonds will allow the weaker countries to continue to borrow and spend while raising the cost of borrowing for the rest of the countries that adhere to eu fiscal conditions. in view of the above arguments, the ep report to the commission on 'moving towards a genuine economic and monetary union' was not voted on.
in writing. - i am still amazed that the single answer to the eurocrisis in this parliament is always the same: more of the same, more europe, more decisionmaking power in the european institutions. those who, on the basis of deceit and lies, allowed totally unsuitable countries into the eurozone have learned nothing from their mistakes. the question remains whether it is logical or even practicable for countries with very different labour markets and very different political preferences or social and fiscal traditions to be brought together. we have experience of this in belgium, and then it is only two peoples. that is why i did not approve this report. the solution today is not more europe but, on the contrary, less europe.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking our two rapporteurs, as is the custom, but we tend to forget this a little. we have forgotten to do so because our debate today is so controversial and polemical. this shale gas exploitation has done a great deal of good for the us economy, which has gone from being an importer of natural gas to a potential exporter in seven years. a providential manna but which, as we have heard, creates controversy. i shall not repeat all that has been said, but i will perhaps mention the risk of divesting from renewable energy research and thus freezing the fight against global warming. the union must therefore adopt a realistic, open but cautious approach. no blank checks to the oil industry, no insults to the future and innovation. the commission must draw inspiration from the american experience in order not to repeat the mistakes of the past, namely the environmental cost of fracking, which is far too high, and the waste of water, which has of course already been mentioned. we must also take account of our european reality, which is that of a densely populated territory with very different legislation on basements. all this to say that - i conclude, mr president, we are an hour late, so allow me another ten seconds - shale gas can only be a possible complement to the european energy mix, as commissioner oettinger has just mentioned.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the essential question before us is not who is influenced by which lobbyist, but is about 'what is the future of shale gas in the global context of the energy debate'. that is why we have two commissioners in front of us who must guide us and also help us to find a solution. first of all: we must decide very quickly within the european union what the long-term strategy is in the field of energy. let us be clear about this - at least as regards the options of my group - and i think of several groups in this parliament. if we look at the long term, we have to make sure that by 2050, we have a fully renewable energy system. and yes, gas will be an important part of that. the question is: what kind of gas and under what conditions? and then the other commissioner, mr potočnik, comes into view, because he has to ensure - despite all the emotions in this house - that if we ever go all the way to exploiting shale gas - i have my questions about that, i am also sceptical about that - but if we do, it will be within a strict regulatory framework, which takes into account the impact on our environment and the impact on our climate. let us wait for that to happen and let the emotions settle down a little and make sure that the european framework is tight and good, as we have done in the past. i think that the future is energy and environmental policy when it comes to this subject.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am not going to repeat what has already been said by many colleagues. we have already noted some very sensible things, proposals and comments. for example, mr seeber says that we are not going to have the illusion that we, as the european parliament, are going to stop the extraction and exploitation of shale gas. some of my colleagues would like that, but we will not succeed. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must of course do everything we can to ensure that this extraction is properly regulated. we know the great potential of shale gas, especially in the united states. the effects of this have already been clearly demonstrated. so let us opt for the framework, for the proper application of eu law. let us ensure that no chemical is used for shale gas anywhere in europe that is not covered by reach legislation. mr president, of course shale gas is useful in reducing our dependence on foreign energy suppliers from outside the eu. and commissioner oettinger has rightly pointed out that this is an important element. but of course it should not relieve us of our obligation to continue to work on renewable energy, and especially, commissioner, as you have said, on energy efficiency. so even the availability of shale gas in the future should not put us to sleep and prevent us from further efforts to increase energy efficiency. so in summary, mr president, we must go for a balanced, for a coordinated, but also for a cautious approach with clear rules of the game to be agreed at european level, and all member states must apply an environmental impact assessment to every eu project.
member of the commission. − mr president, in the last few months a number of restructuring processes have been announced in many industrial sectors in various member states. 274 cases of restructuring were registered in the third quarter of 2012, according to the latest data from the european restructuring monitor. these cases amount to a net job loss of more than 74 000, thus showing a reversed situation compared to the pre-crisis one, which saw the net creation of 6 600 jobs in the third quarter of 2007 for the same number of restructuring cases. these figures reflect the current difficult macro-economic situation linked to the sovereign debt crisis but probably also a structural change in the european economy and labour market. this requires clear policy action. more than ever, good anticipation of change and responsible management of restructuring is crucial. if not managed properly, restructuring operations can have negative consequences for the economy of the surrounding area, incur high social costs across regions and negatively affect workers and their families. the situation is particularly worrying in the automotive sector, where major restructuring operations have been announced in recent months. there is a significant risk that more such announcements will be made in the coming months. the latest announcements concern psa and ford. psa has announced its intention to close its plant in aulnay-sous-bois and to restructure the plant in rennes. ford has announced its intention to close its plant in genk in belgium as well as the plants in southampton and dagenham in the united kingdom. the total amount, including indirect job losses in the supply chain, could be as much as 22 000 job losses. moreover, announcements were also made by general motors, volvo and, in the supply chain, by faurecia. while the difficulties of the automotive industry are linked to the situation on european markets, it has to be noted that the industry also suffers from long-standing structural overcapacities. the commission is ready to help member states and all stakeholders to mobilise instruments and policies that can help the sector to restructure and build a sustainable future. most urgently, the commission wants to explore all possibilities to support workers affected by restructuring or likely to be affected in the future. the commission has already spelled out in detail its strategy for the automotive sector in the cars 2020 action plan, adopted on 8 november 2012. in this strategic document, the commission announces how it intends to conduct its policies supporting the sector in many different policy fields: research, development and innovation, trade policy, a better functioning internal market, investment in human capital and the anticipation of change and restructuring. the objective is to boost the competitiveness of the industry. some actions will thus produce effects in the longer term; others, however, can be implemented already. the competitiveness council of 10 december 2012 will focus discussions on these, with a view also to minimising the social and economic consequences of announced restructuring. in the field of anticipation of change, the commission will support the creation of a european automotive skills council, which will bring together existing national organisations conducting research on skills and employment in the automotive sector. the commission will also support the creation of a social dialogue committee that should bring together manufacturers and suppliers representing workers and employers at the joint request of all interested parties. with regard to overcapacity and restructuring, it has to be stressed that this is mainly the responsibility of the industry, but the commission also has a role to play. first of all, the commission will monitor restructuring activities to ensure their strict compliance with eu legislation, in particular concerning state aid and internal market rules. the commission also expects each individual company to comply with the rules established in the directives on information and consultation and on collective redundancies, as well as with any existing company agreements. secondly, the commission will make all possible efforts to minimise the negative social effect of restructuring, which is the core of the commission’s message today. for that purpose, the commission will encourage the use of the european social fund for retraining and re-skilling of workers in the new financial perspective of the structural funds. the commission will also encourage the member states to use the european globalisation adjustment fund, the egf. it is important to note that the automotive sector is already the sector with the highest number of egf cases – namely 16 – and that almost 21 000 automotive workers have been allocated egf assistance worth a total of eur 113 million. in this context, it would be more important then ever to keep a reinforced egf in the multiannual financial framework (mff) after 2014. this is far from being guaranteed and i count on your support in this regard. in order to ensure policy consistency, the commission will consider re-launching the inter-service restructuring task force, which will bring together the member states, regional authorities, industry and the social partners to study and follow up the main cases of automotive plant closures or significant downsizing. the task force would streamline the use of the relevant eu funds by providing technical assistance, reducing waiting time, advising on the most effective use of resources, monitoring and reporting. in addition, for each region affected by a plant closure or a significant downsizing, the commission will advise, facilitate and liaise with a partnership of regional stakeholders, led by local authorities who would pool the resources available and prepare a complete package of measures such as measures for workers made redundant, support for reconversion of suppliers, community support, measures to develop technology, and so on and so forth. in order to benefit from existing experiences, the commission also wants to identify good practices and promote an anticipative approach in restructuring, in consultation with representatives of the automotive-intensive regions, employment authorities and the sector’s stakeholders. more generally, the commission will encourage member states to make use of labour flexibility schemes and esf co-financing to support suppliers who may need additional time to find new clients following the closure or downsizing of an automotive plant.
president. - mr president, you have spoken about overcapacity and restructuring. we are not blind to this, of course, but today we are taking it a little too lightly that we cannot do anything about it at european level, or at your level as the european commission. you talk about monitoring and supervising the application of european legislation, but today multinationals like opel, general motors or ford simply play off the various national subsidy systems or see where they can produce the cheapest at the lowest social cost, and then simply move their production to that place. that is the ultimate disregard for the inadequacy of the european internal market when companies start to relocate on the basis of the size of the national market, and that cannot of course be the intention. it also illustrates, commissioner, in a particularly painful way, the appalling lack of minimum social conventions within europe. i refer to article 26 of the european treaty. it expressly provides for the possibility for the european commission to make proposals to ensure the balanced functioning of the internal market and we could use that article perfectly to guide such restructuring. two other points, commissioner, firstly, the new cars 2020 action plan to which you referred expressly provides for measures to assist suppliers affected by the closure of an automobile plant. it is very important that subcontractors can use bridging measures to find new customers. are you prepared to make that work in the short term? finally, commissioner, the european investment bank - to say just one more thing - must stop granting low-interest loans to large companies, large car companies, which then use these subsidies to start producing outside the european union and to relocate. of course, that cannot be the intention. it's naive, it's unacceptable and it has to stop. and can we expect you to take action on that front?
on behalf of the green group, mr president, commissioner, you mentioned cars 2020. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. yes, we need to invest in advanced technologies and clean vehicles. yes, we need better market conditions and financial incentives for the environment. yes, we need better market access. yes, there is a need for training of older and younger workers and for the european social fund to be used, but all this is of course not an answer to the concrete social dramas facing the workers at ford genk, the workers in southampton, the workers in rennes. the reality is that the self-styled giant member states are pitting themselves against each other under the slogan 'one man's death, another man's bread'. the reality is that it involves lay employees being fired or forced to surrender their wages, while ceos are lavishly rewarded with millions in bets and millions in bonuses. the reality is that when a company closure is announced, stock prices go up. the reality is that the car giants are far too low on innovation, on people and on the environment. commissioner, you have mentioned a whole toolbox of possible measures, but you have actually been very vague. can you say very specifically that you will support very concrete initiatives in all the affected regions to bring about a change of direction? can you promise that you and your services will do everything possible to ensure that the tens of thousands of workers at ford, psa and volvo who are likely to be out of work soon will have a new perspective thanks to the political commitment of the european parliament? that is my very specific question.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not i have been here in parliament for a number of years and have witnessed these debates. but i have also been faced with this for all these years and i would like to ask my colleague: how is it that seven or eight years ago such firms received eu, local or national subsidies and six years later they closed their doors? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. can you imagine that we here in parliament would come together to set even stricter rules, and in these cases even call back public money to pay precisely those whom we are trying to help today?
"blue card" question. what is it? if ford is indeed making such a loss, 1.6 billion, how can you explain, mr president, that the ceo of ford, mr mulally, is being awarded an annual wager of almost 30 million dollars, 30 million dollars a year! and last year, he even got a bonus of $36.3 million! a company that's making such losses shouldn't be paying out that kind of bet to those ceos. do you agree with that?
mr president, the market industry is under very heavy pressure in europe. it is therefore reasonable to expect that the member states and the european union will do everything possible to help the automobile industry, for example, to cope with competition from outside the european union, competition which does not have to follow the same rules. but nothing could be further from the truth. the european investment bank granted a low-cost loan of eur 100 million to ford to set up a plant in kocaeli, turkey. some sources even speak of a loan of eur 190 million to ford in turkey. in other words, the european union is actively financing and supporting the relocation of european companies, such as ford genk. turkey also receives billions from the commission in so-called pre-accession aid. so it was perfectly understandable that some of that money would also be used to move industrial activities out of europe and into countries like turkey. how in the world did it get this far? how do you explain that to the ten thousand people in limburg who are losing their jobs and the thousands of others in, say, southampton and dagenham? are there any other cases where the investment bank or the commission finances factories in low-wage or relative low-wage countries, creating unfair competition with companies in europe? can the commission give more details on the question of how the globalisation fund can be used to help redirect the workers in genk, for example, to help them on the labour market? it is time that concrete answers were found.
mr president, it must be some two years since we were here debating. one of the reasons was the closure of opel in antwerp. i was angry and incredibly outraged. firstly, because so many people are losing their jobs and this has a great impact on their families, but also because the commission did not intervene at the time. now, a good two years later, nothing has really changed. the commission still does not intervene and hides behind a number of powers which it may or may not have. commissioner, the commission can do many things. let me say three things that i really expect the commission to do now. first of all: the commission is perfectly capable of intervening in restructuring, at least by talking to the multinationals and not by setting up the various firms and fortresses against each other. secondly: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. thirdly, and this is what really gets the ford employees in genk mad: how on earth is it possible that we are using european investment bank funds to modernise a company outside the european union in turkey, so that further relocation is possible. it is time, commissioner, that you and your colleagues took an active part in restructuring and in shaping the future of industry.
the announcement of the closure of ford genk is a tragedy for my province of limburg, because no less than 10,000 people will lose their jobs directly or indirectly. in the municipality where i will be mayor from january, more than 700 families have been affected. the flemish government and the limburg provincial government are now joining forces to work out a plan for the future. that's fine, but the question is: where is europe? what is europe doing for the region? i think europe cannot stand by and watch. in a stroke of the pen, a multinational company is indeed moving an entire plant from one european region to another, when it has (a few months ago) made a promise, a serious promise, on paper, for the future of that plant! apparently, none of that is worth much anymore. you have mentioned a number of concrete measures, but i have a question for you about the cohesion fund. limburg as a region needs special help, given the exceptional circumstances. and there are precedents: for example, bavaria received an additional eur 75 million under the current cohesion programme. can limburg expect something similar and will the commission give a signal in this direction in the near future?
mr president, commissioner, since 2008, eighteen applications to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund have been for restructuring in the automotive sector, amounting to over one billion, with more than 20 000 workers involved. the automotive sector has therefore been a significant part of these mobilizations for several years. it was therefore high time that the commission proposed to take action for this sector in difficulty. is the crisis the only cause of the automobile's difficulties? have not some companies made bad management choices? couldn't we have anticipated this by reorienting earlier and developing a comparative advantage in the market? anticipating restructuring is, in my view - and i agree with alejandro - a necessity. why not make the globalisation adjustment fund a european tool for anticipating restructuring? the united states has a fund with wide powers and does not hesitate to use it to reorient sectors. i have tried to introduce this notion of anticipation in the context of the revision of the regulation, but without success so far. i think that this new orientation of the globalisation adjustment fund could appeal to the member states and i wonder how the commission could support such an initiative to revise the fund.
for the greens/efa group mr president, let me first of all express my thoughts on the workers of florange and liège, some of whom are waiting for a potential buyer and others are faced with a social plan which they consider to be largely inadequate. steel is, however, a very important basic industry in the economy. we must re-industrialize europe, commissioner. it is up to you, the european commission - and why not on 6 december - to launch a 'steel' initiative in connection with the framework programme for research and innovation. a coordinated initiative at european union level which will make the member states cooperate with each other instead of leaving the right of life or death to the large steel groups over subsidiaries, including those that have invested in the tool or in human capital. large groups that profit from non-harmonisation of taxes or, worse still, that play with the advantages they receive. the regulation, commissioner, will not be made by itself. we have to organize it. it is intolerable that co2 emission allowances have been diverted to subsidiaries outside europe or stored in reserve. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their views on the proposal. the great champion in all categories of this reservation is obviously arcelormittal, the same company which, in seraing, had made the reopening of a blast furnace conditional on an allocation of emission rights. apart from the steel question, there is of course also the question of the economic redeployment of europe, of an ambitious europe with ambitious policies. what is certain is that this will not be possible without steel, and i would like this steel to be european.
mr president, commissioner, the steel industry is still a sector with a future, let us not hesitate to say so. our workers in this sector have developed a real know-how. steel is the raw material of manufacturing industries which we all want to revive, such as the automobile industry. this is a sector which provides jobs, which contributes significantly to the structuring of the economic fabric and in which major investments have been made, often with the participation of the public sector, in research and development of new steel products with high added value. but let's take a shining example of the deviations of large groups. for several years, the arcelormittal group has been implementing a strategy of gradual destruction of production capital in the moselle-luxembourg-liège steel basin. what are the bases of this strategy? the group closes production sites which are still profitable but encourages competition between them to redirect their investments and rejects the idea of selling the tools, which are still efficient, in order to avoid their being taken over by a potential competitor. we have to act. the commission is sometimes quick to defend the rules of fair and healthy competition. is it not an abusive competitive practice to prevent a recovery? could the commission not also look into such cases?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, six years ago tony blair, who was then the president of the council, when presenting the multiannual financial framework for 2006–2012 said in this house ‘never again must we repeat the negotiations on this framework in the same way’. but here we are again still talking about the same budget, a budget of more or less 1% of europe’s gdp, and we are still dealing with reluctant britain. the only difference now is that mr blair has been replaced by mr cameron and that the labour party is led now by mr edward miliband who a few weeks ago – for purely populist reasons – made a coalition with the europhobes of the conservative party to make a deal on the eu budget even more difficult, if not impossible. so there we are for the moment. i will not talk about the details of this budget, but let me be very blunt: the whole debate on a little bit more or a little bit less than 1% of the european gdp is completely ridiculous. first of all, the budgets of member states like germany and france are eight to 10 times bigger than the european budget. in recent years they have increased faster than the european budget. the european budget is eur 140 billion. do you know what the total budgets of all the member states of the european union are? eur 6 300 billion, eur 6.3 trillion, that is 50 times bigger than the european budget of eur 140 billion. the daily contribution of citizens to the european budget is 67 cents a day; that is less than a cup of coffee or, for mr callanan, less than a cup of tea. secondly, in the united states, the federal budget is 24% of gdp. switzerland is a confederation and has a budget of 12% of gdp, and we cannot agree on 1%. the european budget is smaller than the budget of smaller member states like belgium or austria. i have the latest figures here: between 2000 and 2010 national budgets in the eu increased by 62%, that is more or less twice as much as the european budget. if we want to make a real federal european union, which we will need to do for tomorrow, the least we can say is that 1% will not be enough in the future. it is a good starting point, but it cannot be the endgame for the future if we want to really tackle the problems. if we want to overcome the euro crisis or if we want to have a general union, we will need more. finally, cuts in the european budget are seen in many of our member states, and certainly in britain, as the way to solve their budgetary problems. but the opposite is true. a strong european budget is the only way to overcome the budgetary problems of the member states: pooling money at european level instead of wasting money at the national level. we have to be very firm on this, and politically this parliament has to be ready to block a deal if it does not correspond to what was proposed by the commission.
mr president, in any democracy in the world, whether annual or multiannual, the budget is the most comprehensive, the most significant political exercise, which expresses a vision or a project. let me ask you about the council's proposal. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take account of the needs of the citizens of the union. so, is offering them to do even less really going to relieve national budgets? will doing less really make national budgets much better off? of course not! it is anything but safe, and it will be even less so when we have moved on to own resources. in this case, the council will have to explain to the european citizens which projects can be supported when cuts are envisaged in all areas. it will be necessary to explain that perhaps strategy 2020 is an exercise in style, that research and innovation are a luxury, that economic redeployment in our regions will be achieved with fewer resources for cohesion. good luck explaining that! good luck also in explaining to the europeans who still believe in the european project that we are going to finance solidarity with the east, which is what we must do. good luck explaining how we're going to fund solidarity with southern europe, which is what we have to do. good luck to the net contributors too! do you think the northern countries will do much better with this reduction? of course not! they have a vested interest in seeing the economies of their neighbours improve. the british and european employers seem to have understood this at the last minute. we can ask a lot of parliament and we have done a lot of work in the committee on budgets to really try to come up with a good proposal, one that is solid. we are willing to be flexible, to revise certain things, but we cannot be asked to go below the commission's proposal. parliament will say no to that! i think the council must also know that there is a twenty-eighth partner here who is not prepared to accept a proposal that is below that of the commission.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, thank you very much for the publicity. mr farage has talked the whole morning about salaries and the biggest waste of money. well, colleagues, what i think is the biggest waste of money in the european union today is the salary we are all paying to mr farage – that is the biggest waste of money! mr farage, let us be honest about it. you are a member of the committee on fisheries, for example, and you are never there, never! in 2011, no attendance. in 2012, no attendance. it is fantastic what you are doing. you come here saying that the salaries that are paid are a scandal, and you pay yourself a salary without doing any work in your own committee: that is the reality of the european union today. (applause) you can laugh. i hope that maybe this can be sent out on the bbc this evening, and on all the other private television channels in britain, showing how you are in fact cheating your own citizens here, all the time, three years in a row already. i think it has to stop. we know that mr alain lamassoure is right. this union, if it wants to become a real federal union, needs own resources; it needs in fact its own income, and that is the big battle now. we shall do it together and, if necessary, without you, mr farage. (applause)
the eu has been under heavy attack lately. it is barely managing the crisis and the divisions between member states are greater than ever, especially when it comes to the new multiannual budget. however, an ambitious agreement is of the utmost importance for the future of the union because the budget is the only solidarity mechanism in the union. and that solidarity mechanism is under pressure. net payers are no longer willing to pay for countries that are in more difficulty, which is putting the whole european construction on the back foot. the financial crisis is undermining that whole solidarity mechanism. it is ironic that it is precisely those countries which feel that 'coupled' austerity is needed that want to prevent member states from being truly solidarity-oriented. we can cut together, but we can't build together. it is therefore essential that the union really has its own resources. otherwise, solidarity within the eu will only be under pressure. and only in this way can we create a european budget with sufficient resources to invest in sustainable growth and jobs. without these investments, we face a lost decade and lost generations that threaten to turn their backs on the eu.
in writing. following the resignation of commissioner dalli, it was essential to appoint a new commissioner quickly who could take on many urgent issues, such as the tobacco products directive, the gmo issue and cosmetic testing. i therefore welcome the vote of parliament in favour of the appointment of tonio borg. the commissioner showed a great deal of knowledge of the matters in his portfolio when he was heard by several parliamentary committees. while i am aware of his various positions, i wish commissioner borg well in his work.
in writing. i'm sorry about this casting! mr. borg, by the words he has spoken, throughout his career, is a man of exclusion far more than of gathering, trampling on gender equality and women's rights, stigmatizing homosexuals or rejecting those who do not share his faith. to be a european commissioner is to be able to represent all europeans. to put forward the candidacy of a man whose positions, throughout his career, were regressive for women's rights and even human dignity, is a mistake and an aberration, even though the crisis already excludes many citizens. we are for a europe of all europeans and not just a few, so we must vote against this appointment.
in writing. in may 2012, the region of emilia-romagna (italy) was hit by a major earthquake that caused severe human, economic, cultural and industrial damage. i therefore felt it was essential that the european union should show solidarity with this devastated region. i am therefore pleased that parliament has shown the necessary budgetary flexibility to provide €670 million in aid to the victims through the solidarity fund.
in writing. as this is a natural disaster with major damage, it is important to act so that this region can restore its infrastructure and rebuild its situation. coping with such an unpredictable situation is certainly not easy for the regions concerned and the states directly concerned. the solidarity fund was created and its purpose is to help in such cases. i also believe that it is extremely important to provide financial assistance from the solidarity fund to victims of natural disasters quickly, and i commend the italian authorities for the speed with which they submitted their application for financial assistance from the solidarity fund and for the rapid submission of the commission's proposal for assistance from the solidarity fund.
in writing. italy requested assistance from the fund following a series of earthquakes that occurred in its territory in may 2012. on 20 may 2012, a powerful earthquake measuring 5.9 on the richter scale struck much of northern italy, causing significant damage in many towns and villages, especially around the epicenter, mainly in the provinces of modena and ferrara, in the emilia-romagna region. on may 29, a second earthquake of 5.8 on the richter scale, with an epicenter slightly farther west, occurred. both earthquakes were followed by many large aftershocks. the earthquakes killed 27 people, injured 350 others, and forced more than 45,000 people to evacuate. it is up to europe to come to the aid of this region after such events.
in writing. it is important to adopt an implementing regulation implementing the provisions of the agreements on the modification of concessions with regard to processed poultry meat, which the european union signed with brazil and thailand in june 2012. in accordance with article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994, mutually satisfactory countervailing measures were found to offset the increase in the consolidated duties. it is also important to take measures to develop international trade and to regulate and standardize it so that all the union's trading partners can benefit from reciprocity. moreover, as the autonomous duties laid down in regulation (eec) no 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the common customs tariff are higher than the current consolidated tariff within the wto, the rates of the 'pre-cycle' autonomous duties of uruguay should be increased to the usual customs duty rates.
in writing. we have been arguing for several years that an openly community solution is needed, one which rejects the pursuit of an intergovernmental architecture. that is one of the reasons why we have always supported sis ii. however, i will regret with some bitterness that we, the european parliamentarians, are only consulted, given not only the political importance of this matter but also its large budgetary impact.
in writing. effective monitoring of the application of eu law is crucial. citizens of the union must be assured that they can enjoy their fundamental rights within the eu. the rule of law, which is a prerequisite for the legitimacy of any form of democratic governance, forms the basis of european states. the role of citizens as complainants is essential when it comes to ensuring eu law on the ground. i believe that this report is of the utmost importance, since the citizen is once again the centre of the union's concerns.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report and insist that the commission should abandon non-binding legal provisions in infringement proceedings and instead propose a regulation defining the different aspects of the infringement procedure and the upstream procedure, in order to strengthen citizens' rights and ensure transparency. i also think it is essential that the commission makes use of all the means at its disposal to ensure that member states transpose union legislation in a timely and appropriate manner, particularly in the field of the environment, one of the areas most prone to infringements.
in writing. - the debate on energy, energy dependence, traditional energy and renewable energy is often a source of great contradiction. in fact, the transition from conventional energy, from nuclear to renewable energy, will not be possible without transitional solutions. the gas is one of these transitional solutions, according to almost all experts. interestingly, the green group in the eu parliament seems to be particularly concerned, while their party colleagues, for example in government in germany, are clearly in favour of gas as a 'transitional energy'. energy production must be discussed objectively if we are to convince citizens to take part in shaping the energy transition. the citizens are called upon not only to understand the democratic process but also to understand that private households, and in particular heating, are among the largest consumers of non-renewable energy.
in writing. creating jobs and ending our dependence on traditional fuels is attractive, but at what cost? certainly not one that endangers the future of our children. i see three problems that, until they find a solution, will cause me to refuse to exploit. the first concerns water consumption, which is very high, measured in millions of m3. the second problem concerns the risk of pollution of groundwater near the wells by the chemicals used. the last problem is earthquakes caused by hydraulic fracturing. they can occur when the generated vibrations encounter natural faults. the disturbance can then release existing tensions. there seems to be little serious alternative to hydraulic fracturing today. tests have been carried out in the united states with compressed air instead of water and in canada with liquefied petroleum gas (lpg). electric arc fracturing, which has been patented, is only at the experimental stage. i am therefore not against exploitation, but against the methods of exploitation currently proposed.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs koppa, on her excellent report, which we have indeed discussed on several occasions and which my group was pleased to adopt in committee. i would then like to take the liberty of pointing out that i am the first speaker to come from one of the founding member states of the european union. all the others come from countries which have joined the union at various later stages, which shows how the gradual enlargement of the union is a fundamental aspect of its existence and also one of the most successful policies developed over the years. we will approve this report because we agree, as i said, that the enlargement of the european union can indeed be considered a success in general. we also agree with the new approach proposed and elaborated by commissioner füle, which includes opening chapters 23 and 24 very quickly in negotiations and keeping them open for a very long time during those negotiations. this should avoid painful surprises at the end of the road and, above all, give the applicant countries time to implement difficult reforms in the field of justice and fundamental freedoms in a timely and thorough manner. this report contains a paragraph 38, which has just been mentioned. not all members of my group, myself included, will approve it, not because we are so much against the notion of associate membership, but because we regret that it has found its way into a report on enlargement. we feel it doesn't belong there. thank you for your attention.
i am sorry, mr president, but this report on enlargement policy is a shocking example of global alienation. at no point is the question asked whether the european union has no other cat to beat at the moment than further enlargement with new member states? i am thinking of the euro crisis, the problems with schengen, the problems with the multiannual budget, the democratic deficit, etc. perhaps i have read over it, but nowhere in this report is attention paid to the absorption capacity of the european union to take in certain candidate countries. the report also contains a number of flagrant contradictions. for example, paragraph 28 welcomes the so-called positive agenda for turkey, while the next paragraph stresses that the candidate countries must make improvements in the area of democracy and human rights. and as far as turkey is concerned, this is a rather euphemistic term. candidate countries either meet the standards for accession or do not. turkey was not even ready to start accession negotiations. and meanwhile, the problems in that country have only gotten worse; but think of all those professors and journalists who are in prison for expressing an opinion. this parliament should finally speak out and call for the negotiations with turkey to be stopped. this is quite different from the propaganda advocated in paragraph 35 of the report to shape public opinion, which - it may be said - is generally more sensible and realistic on the enlargement issue than all the eu institutions put together.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i welcome the announcement by you, madam president-in-office, of a ceasefire which will have to be consolidated. we have had enough civilian casualties, enough children, enough blood in this region and this is a real relief, but i think that if we have to consolidate the ceasefire, we also have to support the legitimate approach of president abbas at the un general assembly. because operation pillar of defense was like the nightmare of operation cast lead in 2008: we had the same proximity to the israeli elections, the same escalation of violence, which translated on the israeli side into extrajudicial killings and attacks and on the gaza side into sending missiles and rockets to israel and maybe even, today, an attack in tel aviv. this time, however, something changed. two things have changed: firstly, the arab spring has moved the lines and gaza is, de facto, no longer isolated and there is also the "pillar of defense" operation which was, in a way, part of the pressure exerted on mahmoud abbas to give up, at any rate, presenting his approach to the un. egypt has been mediating with gaza. i think it is really up to us in europe to take responsibility by supporting president abbas. the concern we have today for israel's security, which is real, is matched only by the responsibility to offer the palestinians a secure state, too, within the same 1967 borders. these obligations are both moral, historical and based on international law. i would remind you that south sudan joined the un three days after its independence, when the borders were not defined and there was a war going on with sudan. it is not normal that since its independence in 1988 palestine has been trampling in the corridors of the un. we are giving the floor to all the extremists, to all those who mock the weakness of europe, to all those who believe in a solution by force. this is our responsibility, not the united states' responsibility. this is our european history. we cannot ask the palestinians to pay the price. i am glad that the new egypt, with which we have just negotiated ambitious agreements, is now helping us to overcome this crisis. my condolences go out to the families of all the victims, on both sides, but i don't think they had to pay with their lives for our history and our responsibilities. (applause) i would like to thank
it is more than ten years ago that nabil saeb erekat, the palestinian negotiator, said to me in the corridors of the foreign ministry in brussels: "we drown in the blood of our children". that was more than ten years ago, and since then the violence has not really stopped. the latest episode has been particularly bloody again. in the end, it hardly matters who started it, because if you go back far enough, there's always someone else who started it, and you have this diabolical chain of actions and reactions. i therefore sincerely hope, and i am sure my group shares this sentiment, that a ceasefire has indeed been agreed, thanks in part to the efforts of egypt and all those who have contributed to it, and that it will be sustainable. i would also like to join with all those who have pointed out that we must help to eliminate the causes of all this violence. this will only be possible when both the peaceful and secure survival of israel and the building of a viable palestinian state are guaranteed. i hope that through the changes throughout the region and the events of the last few days, everyone will see that the status quo is untenable. that the status quo is not sustainable, and that a peaceful solution for the future of all israelis and all palestinians must be sought with all our might.
in writing. several countries are actively preparing for cyberwarfare by setting up structures dedicated to defensive cyberwarfare, but also to espionage and cyber penetration. many public and private organizations are daily targets of attacks. large-scale cyberattacks have been carried out in recent years around the world. modern, highly computerised societies are vulnerable to this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. on the technical side, never before has a set of technologies penetrated so rapidly and so deeply into human activity. the rise of a safer cyberspace requires increased involvement of states in network regulation and crisis management. it is therefore essential that europe emerges as the platform for discussion and regulation in this field. in fact, too often in recent times we have had in our hands, in the european parliament, texts with an unfortunate tendency to try to extinguish many individual freedoms, under various and varied pretexts. europe must guarantee to all its citizens that at no time is the boundary between security and privacy preserved and controlled to the maximum!
in writing. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i encourage you all to close the loopholes in the current legislation on shark finning by ensuring that all sharks caught by eu vessels worldwide are landed with their fins naturally attached, without - and i insist - any exceptions being tolerated. i therefore urge you to reject any attempt to introduce amendments to preserve the derogation through which the practice of 'finishing' could go unnoticed. the adoption of this proposal would not only provide increased protection for eu sharks, but also allow the eu to contribute to the global effort to eradicate the cruel and unnecessary practice of shark finning by advocating for policies for shark fins naturally attached to the body, without exception, to regional fisheries organisations such as iccat and iotc. my view is shared by a majority of citizens of the european union. we represent them. don't you forget that!
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. for the eighteenth time in a row, no confidence test could be given, and the margin of error rose again, albeit slightly, to 3.9%. the court of auditors has identified errors in a wide range of policy areas: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the community's action plan for the environment and the environment (1994-98). that's not nothing. each of these is a policy area under common management by the commission and the member states. mr šemeta emphasized this in his speech. he reiterated the figures in the court's report: 60% of the errors in the regional fund, 76% of the errors in the social fund. the member states should have taken action against this. they knew and they didn't do it. i therefore ask the court of auditors: is it not useful to say more clearly in your court of auditors report which member states are in the wrong? some do good and some do evil. that would be useful for the exercise we are doing with rapporteur geier, because then we can tackle the member states which are not functioning well more vigorously, provide better guidance and hold them to account. then we might be able to avoid a lot of the criticism. finally, one last point. i think we should also pay much more attention to own resources, and especially vat. vat fraud is estimated to be worth at least 100 billion euros. that's not a small thing, especially in times of crisis. at a time when everyone is obliged to save, i think it is extremely important that we also pay more attention to the fight against fraud, to the fight against criminal organizations which are evading taxes with a lot of money.
mr president, because of the ceasefire in gaza yesterday, we have had to change the wording a little bit, with the agreement of the other groups. there are four raw amendments which will be given to you as you go along. if you will allow me, i will give you the first one, since we are voting first. at the beginning of paragraph 1after expresses grave concern, etc. add welcomes the ceasefire agreement announced in cairo and calls for its full implementation and commends the efforts of egypt and other actors to mediate. so first, "welcomes the ceasefire" and second, "commends the efforts of egypt". do you want me to read the whole paragraph?
mr president, the three oral amendments are as follows:‘ having regard to the ceasefire agreement of 21 november 2012,’. a second oral amendment: ‘a. whereas the recent escalation of violence has resulted in loss of life’ (instead of ‘ongoing conflict’). a third oral amendment – in english; i apologise to my british colleagues, my english is very bad, but anyway: ‘(aa.) whereas egyptian foreign minister kamel amr and us secretary of state hillary clinton announced a ceasefire at a news conference in cairo on 21 november 2012; whereas, according to this ceasefire, “israel shall stop all hostilities in the gaza strip, land, sea and air including incursions and targeting of individuals” (close the quotation mark, this is not the amendment, this is a quote from the conference) while “all palestinian factions shall stop all hostilities from the gaza strip against israel, including rocket attacks, and attacks along the border”;’ (close the quotation mark, this is a sentence from the press conference).
in writing. how can we remain indifferent to the fate of sharks caught in our european waters and then sometimes thrown alive into the sea after having their fins removed? this practice is totally unacceptable and contrary to the sustainable and responsible management of our ecosystem. the european commission has finally accepted its responsibilities by rejecting any possibility of derogation. this would be a major setback and would jeopardize all the progress already made in this area. the neves report aims to limit the ban on shark finning to freezer vessels only, while acknowledging that the 200 spanish and portuguese vessels already holding special licences are overwhelmingly freezer vessels. fortunately, the european parliament did not give in to the industry's sirens, refusing to empty the commission's proposal of any kind of exceptional ban on wing cuts.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which makes it possible to denounce a barbaric practice. to ensure that the scandalous practice of finning by eu vessels is brought to an end, the commission and the council must ensure that the derogations from the finning ban are eliminated. member states should also support this and ensure that applications for special permits and renewals are carefully examined and only granted where justified in accordance with the law.
in writing. i of course support this resolution, which aims to push the council to accelerate the pace to enable states parties to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abductions, by determining the competent jurisdictions and the law applicable at the time of the decision on the child's place of residence. there is also provision for the speedy return of abducted children to their own country of residence. in the interests of the european citizens, who would benefit from the adoption of these decisions, the council should consult us in parliament as soon as possible and refrain from obstructing the proper functioning of the european union on bogus legal grounds!
in writing. i share the message of this resolution, that i find harmful and i weigh my words this lack of transparency in the preparations for cmti-12 and the conference itself, when it should lead to important results and public utility! i would remind you that some of the proposals for itr reform put forward by the 193 itu member states would have an impact on the internet, its architecture, its operation, its content and security, on trade relations, on internet governance and on the free flow of information online. there are concerns in these itu reform proposals that they provide for the introduction of specific interconnection fee mechanisms, which could seriously threaten the open and competitive nature of the internet by driving up prices and hindering innovation. it is urgent that this be brought to light!
in writing. let's say it straight away: a few days before the doha conference, the commitments made by the international community to limit global warming to a maximum of 2°c are far from being achieved. the united nations and the european union are sounding the alarm: action must be taken quickly and decisively! i have today supported, along with 484 other members of the european parliament, a resolution which recalls that this objective is essential to safeguard the survival of the planet's inhabitants and ecosystems. the resolution stresses that to be credible, industrialised countries must not only honour their commitments if they want to help the poorest countries, but also raise the bar if they want to reduce their carbon footprint by 2020. the hopes of tomorrow will be built on the addition of ambitious measures in the field of clean technologies, energy efficiency in buildings and transport, and the promotion of green jobs. the european parliament also stressed the need to create strategic alliances with key industrialised countries in order to renew the tokyo protocol, which is due to expire very soon, with a view to concluding a new international treaty with quantified targets for 2020.
in writing. i am in favour of this resolution. it's just amazing to see the risks that too many people are willing to take on future generations. if no urgent action is taken, the average global temperature will rise by 3 to 5 degrees celsius over the course of the century. the international community's 2°c target is the threshold beyond which, according to scientists, the climate system is likely to be overwhelmed with effects that would greatly accelerate further warming. even if the most ambitious promises made by individual states are kept, there will be 8 gt too much, two gt more than the estimates in the previous unep report in 2011. the new assessment is partly due to the fact that countries have provided clarifications on their pledges and how they should be interpreted in practice. how many warnings, verbal and concrete, will we need before we act? the 2°c target remained achievable, provided that rapid action was taken.
in writing. i fully understand the objective of the text which is intended to support the enlargement process i share this view. however, i would stress that the enlargement policy must remain credible and must have the support of the citizens. i also insist that the candidate countries respect all their obligations and commitments. the union, for its part, must be responsible for improving its capacity for integration in the context of the examination of the legitimate european aspirations of candidate or potential candidate countries.
in writing. the credibility of the united nations was already tarnished by the persistent blockages in the security council on syria; the failure of the international community to stop the serious escalation of violence in the middle east seems to have buried it. despite the deaths of at least 140 people - 135 palestinians and 5 israelis - in a week, israeli raids continue, as do palestinian rocket attacks on the jewish state. under international law, the gaza strip is an element of a palestinian state that does not yet exist. so this non-statutory allows israel, and egypt, to do with it as they please. that's the first problem. the other problem in gaza is political. since the 2006 parliamentary elections, won by hamas which seized power by force the following year at the expense of fatah , the gaza strip has been ruled by the islamist movement. the international community, however, regards the palestinian enclave as still being administered by the palestinian authority, of which fatah is the main component. i voted in favour of this text, although i would have liked to have done much more to stop the flow of israeli and palestinian blood.
in writing. the last text of the european security strategy was in 2008. the situation is clearly not the same: upheavals in the middle east and north africa (including revolutions in libya, tunisia, egypt and syria), the emergence of new actors with regional - or even global - ambitions on the international scene and the reorientation of the priorities of the us defence policy towards the asia-pacific area. there are also local crises in the eu's neighbourhood with major regional consequences, the vagaries of transition processes in the arab countries and their scale, the development of the pakistan-afghanistan area in view of the future withdrawal of nato military forces, and the increase in terrorist threats in the sahel, the horn of africa and nigeria regions of africa. the european union is intended to be a comprehensive political actor on the international stage, in order to promote international peace and security, protect its interests in the world and guarantee the security of its own citizens. we have an important role to play as a provider of security services to the member states and their citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report and fully support the possibilities offered by all the relevant provisions of the treaty, including the mutual defence clause and the solidarity clause, to provide european citizens with the same security guarantees against conventional and unconventional threats. it is also important to remind member states of their unequivocal obligation to provide aid and assistance by all means in their power to a member state which is the object of armed aggression on its territory.
in writing. i particularly support the call in this report for the union to examine the security implications of climate change in its dialogue with third countries, including partners such as india, china and russia. i also wanted to support the establishment of coordination mechanisms between the union as a whole and the member states which might take action in the future, in order to ensure that the actions of these states are consistent with the overall approach of the union in this area.
author. - mr president, i think that we can understand a lot of things about iran and that we can say that it is a country with which we must negotiate. the idea of denuclearisation of the whole middle east is also understandable. one can understand many things, but i do not understand the cruelty of this regime towards human rights. i have to say that it is not even political: there has been a considerable increase in death sentences, a blogger has died under suspicious circumstances, and our repeated call to meet the two sakharov prizes, which we named this year, remained unanswered. i therefore appeal to the iranian authorities here - for the very reason of reaching out to them, to reach out to them - in favour of human rights. i don't think we'll ever understand each other if that chapter isn't opened with them. i would also like to be able to celebrate the sakharov prize in december with the two nominees, nasrin sotoudeh, who is currently on hunger strike, and jafar panahi, who is currently appealing against a conviction against him and who is facing imprisonment. these are two laureates whom we have not nominated against iran, but because they are for us representatives of freedom and human rights.
author. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to highlight the progress made by burma in recent times. although the human rights situation in burma has not yet reached the level where it can no longer be associated with our debates in the european parliament on thursday afternoon, i am pleased to see that the country is taking action to improve the situation. for example, the release of dozens of political prisoners is a step in the right direction. i know that this release coincides with the historic visit of barack obama to burma, but the important thing is that it takes place and above all that the other prisoners can be released as soon as possible. meanwhile, in the west of the country, violence between ethnic rakhine buddhists and the muslim minority rohingya continues to wreak havoc. it is essential that action is taken to end the violence against the rohingya minority if the country is to continue its democratic transition. it is essential that the burmese government put an end to the discriminatory practices against the rohingya and that they finally be able to obtain burmese citizenship.
author. - mr president, the problem of the situation of migrants in libya is certainly not new. i remember that not so long ago, under colonel gaddafi, the european union was trying to negotiate a totally shameful agreement with gaddafi to keep the migrants in his country, when we knew the detestable conditions they were subjected to. so the fault is certainly not the new libyan government that has just been elected, but rather the lack of legislation, structure, culture, institutions that could protect migrants. today they are in a worse situation than ever, persecuted by militias, former rebels katibas. what we want to do is really suggest to this new government that we work with him, hand in hand. it is up to him to create an institutional framework and it is up to us, the european union - i call on commissioner rehn and the high representative here - to work with the libyans so that migrants are treated with dignity this time and that asylum seekers and refugees are distinguished from migrants working there. this is truly a humanitarian emergency in the best sense of the word.
mr president, this is a quasi-technical amendment, because there was an irregularity in the text. we thought mr jafar panahi was still in prison, so we changed the text a little bit. he's on appeal, but he's out. which gives here, in the middle of the paragraph:whereas nasrin sotoudeh is serving a jail sentence for her work to highlight human rights abuses in iran and has embarked on a hunger strike after being refused family visits; whereas jafar panahi is appealing a six-year jail sentence, a twenty-year ban on film-making and a travel ban imposed on him.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on 11 december 2012 at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data interchange systems (edis) and the use of electronic data interchange systems (edis) in the provision of services.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by anna rosbach on 'the microbial challenge growing threats of antimicrobial resistance' (com (2011) 0748 2012/2041 (ini)) (a7-0373/2012).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by jan zahradil on financing the activities and investments of eu smes: facilitated access to credit to help internationalisation (2012/2114 (ini)) (a7-0367/2012).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by marietje schaake on a strategy for digital freedom in the union's foreign policy [2012/2094(ini) ] (a7-0374/2012).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 december 2012, at 12 noon.
madam president, i am very pleased that the european patent is finally here. the compromise that has been reached – the foundations of which were laid during the belgian presidency in 2010 – is one which, i believe, will allow europe to keep pace with progress in business and technology and maintain its competitive position in a global market. i would also like to say that it has just been announced that the advocate-general advises the court to reject all the claims brought by spain and italy, and so the last legal stand against the european patent now appears to be over. the unitary patent – as, of course, we all know – will bring lower administrative, legal and translation costs for applicants. harmonised litigation and legal decisions will provide more legal certainty and enforceability, which is particularly welcome for small and medium-sized enterprises. adequate patent protection is only the first step towards more innovation and new products on the market. patents which have been lying on the shelf continue to do so. more efforts are also needed, both on the public and the private side, to bring new innovations to the market; this can only enhance our competitiveness.
madam president, commissioner, this is a historic week for european business. after 30 years of delay, europe is finally overcoming the fruitless polemics to create this single european patent, with the objective of protecting inventions and also the imperative of reducing costs. it cost €30,000 to apply for a european patent in ten countries and to protect the rights for the first ten years, twice as much as in the united states or japan. so i do not know where my colleague mr wojciechowski got the figures he quoted. the first single european patents, which could be filed as early as 2014, will cost inventors €5,000, will spare them the real struggle they have had to face up to now and will guarantee them, above all, greater legal certainty. but more will be needed to fully restore the morale of our inventors and researchers. to put it simply, the european patent is necessary for innovation but it is certainly not sufficient, and if european companies need this better industrial protection, they also need capital, easy access to finance and a favourable tax environment to compete in the global competition we are currently experiencing.
in writing. kyrgyzstan is an important partner for the union in central asia. since the 2009 global crisis, which severely affected the country, the union has supported every stage of the transition in recent years, including through the holding of democratic elections. the popular uprising of april 2010 brought an end to the regime of president bakiev, who was accused of corruption and undermining democracy. although some efforts still need to be made in the area of the rule of law and human rights, the current regime of president atambayev is making important steps forward, as was recently confirmed by the high representative catherine ashton during her visit to the country last november. in this context, it is of the utmost importance that the union, aware of the efforts of the democratic authorities of kyrgyzstan, should provide financial support to the country. moreover, macro-financial assistance seems to be the appropriate instrument in this perspective since it combines loans and grants and is complementary to the assistance already provided by the imf (to which the union also contributes).
in writing. voted in favour of the amendment proposed by mr moreira on amendment no 1 to the proposal for a decision concerning recital 18 and concerning macrofinancial assistance to the kyrgyz republic. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: in order to ensure uniform conditions of implementation and for reasons of efficiency, the commission should be empowered to negotiate those conditions with the kyrgyz authorities under the supervision of the member states' committee provided for in regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. in voting in favour of this report, i particularly emphasise the need for the commission to include the results of the negotiations between the governments of the united states and the european union, by updating the references to the eu quality labelling and certification systems introduced by directive 2009/125/ec of 21 october 2009. secondly, i would like to stress that the objectives of the improvements to be made in energy efficiency must be to achieve a high level of consumer and environmental protection.
in writing. i am satisfied with the work that has been done towards the completion of this digital single market. this is a key element in making the european union the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. it is smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the development of e-commerce and online services has now become a priority for citizens and businesses alike. services can now move freely within a market of 500 million consumers. this completion of the digital single market is of course synonymous with job creation. it is therefore a key driver of competitiveness within the union. the achievement of this objective is vital in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for the internal market. this is a further step towards a knowledge-based economy, a process which is particularly close to my heart.
in writing. the digital revolution has changed the way businesses operate, and the impact of the internet economy has been considerable in recent years. the figures also speak for themselves: in some g8 countries, the internet has generated 20% of economic growth and 25% of net job creation over the past five years. for every job destroyed in the world 'offline', the online sector generates 2.6 new jobs. companies that exploit the full potential of the internet create more than twice as many jobs as those that do not. if the internet economy is considered as a sector, internet-related consumption and spending is currently higher than in the agriculture or energy sectors. and the internet economy will continue to grow. the four actions deserve to be welcomed and supported: 1. support for small and medium-sized enterprises; 2. overcoming the remaining barriers in the digital single market; 3. building trust in the digital single market; 4. laying the foundations for a more competitive europe.
in writing. increased participation of european smes in global markets requires better access to capital and protection against unfair competition. the european parliament adopted a resolution that targets the funding gap, unfair competition from third countries and lack of information as the main reasons why only 13% of european smes export outside the eu. we suggest a new instrument which would provide additional aid to smes through export credit agencies. this instrument could include soft or fixed rate loans, short-term working capital and refinancing facilities, and professional insurance packages, including export credit insurance to cover foreign exchange risks. parliament also called on the commission to help smes in international markets by improving market access and combating non-tariff barriers, dumping and infringement of intellectual property rights. after the adoption of the single european patent, it is a new tool adopted in favour of our smes.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises are the real pillars of our economy. however, 99% of all enterprises in the union are small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), of which 92% are micro enterprises with between one and nine employees, 6.7% are small enterprises with between 10 and 49 employees and 1.1% are medium-sized enterprises with between 50 and 249 employees. there are 23 million of these companies. they also account for 75% of private sector employment. over the last five years, they have contributed to the creation of some 80% of all new jobs. moreover, smes are indeed the driving force behind economic recovery in these times of crisis. this is why it is important to enable them to obtain information on foreign markets and business opportunities for investment abroad, while facilitating their access to credit and capital, which will enable them to internationalise.
in writing. it is clear that in our current society digital freedom takes on a special meaning in the implementation of the union's foreign policy. it is the primary means of communication. to this end, it is a dimension which the union must integrate perfectly into all its policies. it facilitates access to information, freedom of expression, freedom of the press and economic, political, cultural and social development. what particularly impresses me is that the development of the internet in recent years, with its uncensored access, has had a positive influence on human rights and fundamental freedoms. the use of this tool by governments has enabled them to conduct direct diplomacy. the areas in which icts are particularly effective are diverse. they contribute to transparency and good governance, literacy, education, health care, effective monitoring of elections (the last elections in ukraine...), and disaster relief (there are many examples in this area too!). the integration of digital freedom into the union's foreign policy is a key element in this.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. only by creating synergies between our trade, security and foreign policy policies, in line with our values and interests, can the union exert its full weight and assume a global role. in view of the rapidly changing technologies, it is essential to promote structured collaboration between policy makers, business and civil society. this balance in time is likely to best serve the cause of the global open internet, in the interest of all.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text by mr moreira on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing transitional provisions for bilateral investment agreements between member states and third countries. the fact that this regulation, and in particular recitals 17, 18 and 19 thereof, provides for the use of the procedures referred to in regulation (eu) no 182/2011 does not constitute a precedent which would allow the union, in the context of future regulations, to empower member states, pursuant to article 2 (1) tfeu, to legislate and adopt legally binding acts in areas falling within the union's exclusive competence. furthermore, the use of the consultation procedure, as opposed to the examination procedure, in this regulation should not be considered as a precedent for future regulations establishing the framework of the common commercial policy.
in writing. since the armed conflict in august 2008, the union has committed itself to further strengthening its relations with georgia. committed since 1999 through a partnership agreement (pa) and since 2006 through the european neighbourhood policy (enp action plan), the union is providing key financial assistance to the country, complementing the assistance provided by the united nations, the world bank and the imf. the country has been hit hard by the international financial crisis since the third half of 2008. as štefan füle, european commissioner for enlargement and european neighbourhood policy, recently said following his meeting with georgian opposition leader david baradze, the focus must be on building strong and depersonalized institutions to consolidate the country's democratic process. in view of these economic and political considerations, it is essential that the union provides macro-financial assistance to georgia in order to strengthen its efforts towards democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal by mr moreira to allow the union to make available to georgia macro-financial assistance (hereinafter referred to as 'the union's macro-financial assistance') of up to eur 46 million to support the stabilisation of its economy and to cover its balance of payments needs as defined in the current imf programme. of this maximum amount, a maximum of eur 23 million shall be paid in the form of grants and a maximum of eur 23 million in the form of loans. the disbursement of the union's macro-financial assistance shall be subject to the approval of the 2013 union budget by the budgetary authority. it is, however, important that the commission periodically verifies that georgia's economic policies are in line with the objectives of the union's macro-financial assistance and that the agreed economic policy conditions are being satisfactorily fulfilled. to this end, the commission shall carry out this task in close coordination with the imf and the world bank and, where appropriate, with the economic and financial committee.
in writing. the issue of maritime safety has two equally important aspects. the aim is to ensure the safety and therefore the continuity of maritime trade, which is an essential means of international trade, and to protect the environment. recognising the scale of the environmental damage caused by the sinking of the oil tanker erika, the european maritime safety agency (emsa) was set up to address this reality. the agency contributes to maritime safety and security and to the prevention of pollution. it also has to prevent and deal with environmental disasters such as oil spills. it will use the cleanseanet information system to monitor the impact of pollution from offshore drilling platforms and to monitor greenhouse gas emissions from ships. the agency will also be responsible for helping to combat piracy. in view of all the above and the needs in this area, the signing of this act is necessary and fully justified.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report so that the maritime safety agency can have greater capacity to predict and combat environmental disasters using the clearseanet information system, which monitors the impact of pollution caused by offshore drilling rigs. i also urge the agency to play a greater role in improving the training of seafarers.
in writing. i am pleased that an idea that was already put forward 55 years ago, at the time of the creation of the european economic community, has now been put into practice! i see two main advantages. firstly, our companies and universities will finally be able to protect the results of their research and innovation programmes at a lower cost. administrative procedures will also be greatly facilitated, as will legal proceedings in the event of a dispute. secondly, as a corollary to the first advantage, we are strengthening the position of our companies on the world stage by improving their competitiveness vis-à-vis american or asian groups. this is a considerable improvement over the current fragmented and costly system. in general, for budgetary reasons, our smes are currently protecting their achievements in only a limited number of countries. once this new system is in place, they will have the opportunity to protect them in a much larger territory.
in writing. the creation of such unitary patent protection will obviously be beneficial in this area. the creation of a truly unitary patent system will undoubtedly simplify the current system and reduce its costs (thus moving to a cost of approximately eur 680 per patent). the europe 2020 strategy will be strengthened, as this measure will, among other things, allow for more favourable conditions for investment in research and development. innovation and entrepreneurship will thus be further encouraged. the creation of a unitary patent will have a whole range of positive impacts in the member states of the european union. the free movement of goods in the internal market will be reinforced and effective once again. moreover, as the committee discussion has pointed out, i believe that cooperation between the european patent office and the national intellectual property services really needs to be strengthened. the only regret is that the agreement was reached by 25 member states and not 27.
in writing. the ep approved the unitary patent, making it easier and cheaper to apply for patents in europe. i voted against because the legal uncertainty that has now been created defies all imagination. in their haste to pass this bad piece of legislation, the entire judiciary is getting a fat clutch. the european patent office (epo), a non-eu institution, is not only entrusted with the supervision of european patents. there is great concern about the far-reaching consequences of this law. the epo has been criticised in the past for its ease of granting patents. patents on living organisms, for example. it prevents farmers from growing their own seeds, which makes them dependent and, moreover, is harmful to biodiversity. but there are also examples of software packages. despite clear (and restrictive) rules on this, the epo still allows patents. this is not a trusting relationship. a genuine unitary patent, embedded in the legal and political structures of the union, would be a good thing. unfortunately, this law goes the other way and places the control of, for example, european innovation policy in the hands of lawyers rather than democratically elected bodies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the creation of unitary patent protection because it is a real breakthrough which european texts really need. i want to stress one point in particular. such unitary patent protection should be established by giving european patents unitary effect after their grant, pursuant to this regulation, in respect of all the participating member states. the main feature of european patents with unitary effect should be their unitary character, that is to say, they should provide uniform protection and produce the same effects in all participating member states. consequently, a european patent with unitary effect should be limited, transferred, revoked or extinguished only for all the participating member states at the same time. a european patent with unitary effect must be capable of being the subject of a licence agreement for all or part of the territories of the participating member states. in order to ensure effective uniformity of unitary patent protection, only european patents granted for all participating member states with the same set of claims should be granted unitary effect.
in writing. i welcome the vote on the single european patent in plenary today! this vote represents a crucial step in the reform of the european patent system. after decades of political and legal discussions (the idea of such a patent was already being floated in 1957 at the time of the creation of the eec!), the european patent is finally on the rails! the single european patent represents a considerable improvement over the current fragmented and costly system. for belgian companies, and in particular for smes, the european patent will bring great simplification and considerable savings in the patent application procedure.
in writing. a well-functioning patent system that meets the real needs of users is essential for the economic growth and competitiveness of the european union. the use of intellectual property rights, in addition to being one of the main drivers of innovation, contributes significantly to the economic development of the whole field. the objective of achieving unitary patent protection within the union has been pursued by the member states for almost half a century. in view of the impossibility of reaching an agreement on a community patent, the so-called monaco convention was drawn up in 1973 and subsequently all the countries now members of the european union have acceded to it. it now seems clear to me that the creation of unitary patent protection must go hand in hand with the establishment of a unified judicial system.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. after decades of failed attempts, a genuine single market in patents, which guarantees legal certainty and international competitiveness, is now within reach. parliament must support such a project! the establishment of a well-designed patent system in europe can be a major factor in growth through innovation. european companies, especially smes, need such a tool to cope with the current economic crisis and to remain competitive on a global scale. the patent system in europe consists of national patents issued by the industrial property offices of the member states or a european patent issued by the european patent office. once granted, the european patent breaks up into a bundle of national patents governed by different national laws. this system, which is very expensive, leads to costly litigation involving several courts, with the risks that this entails, and often results in conflicting decisions. the proposals on unitary patent protection and the related language regime, currently under consideration in the parliament and the council, aim to put an end to this fragmentation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it aims to ensure that the safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas work effectively and become truly applicable, and has provided for enforcement measures to avoid serious damage to the sectors which could be most affected in the short term by the implementation of part iv of the agreement. moreover, the liberalization process, which was very important to me, is taking place in full compliance with the fundamental international conventions on labour law and the environment. the implementation of the regulation under consideration is carried out in the most transparent manner. another factor which motivated my vote was that the text contains specific provisions on monitoring and reporting, including an analysis of the impact on employment, working conditions, organic production and fair trade flows, and an assessment of the impact of the scheme on the outermost regions, particularly in the banana sector, and on small production structures and cooperatives.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the association agreement with central america, which was voted on by the european parliament on tuesday and will enter into force in 2013. this is the first agreement with another regional bloc, which greatly simplifies the procedures since with one agreement we are reaching all the member states of these two regional blocs. the controversial debates which preceded the vote were not necessary, since the agreement, in addition to enshrining political dialogue, cooperation and free trade between the two signatory parties, contains clauses on human rights and on social and environmental standards which are dear to us. these two agreements open up great prospects for both regions, particularly in the industrial, automotive and machine tool sectors.
in writing. the current temporary trade regime based on a unilateral system of generalised preferences is evolving towards a reciprocal and negotiated structure in favour of the progressive liberalisation of trade in goods and services and public procurement, and the promotion of investment, leading to a predictable framework of legal security and certainty that fosters mutual trust, which is essential for the development of trade and investment. however, as a socialist mep, i strongly urge that this opening up should not be a matter of liberalisation to the full, without any social aspect! social cohesion is a priority objective of regional cooperation policy, and reducing poverty rates, inequalities, social exclusion and all forms of discrimination are, in my view, key elements of this.
in writing. i am very mixed on the issues concerning colombia. on the one hand, i must admit that the present government seems to be making fruitful efforts, the catastrophic situation 10 years ago is still improving, the socialists have introduced very interesting clauses in the text on respect for human rights and on the establishment of a roadmap to be respected by the government. however, these clauses are not suspensive, people continue to die for their ideas and the government still has, it seems to me, to make efforts not only in the short term but also in the medium and long term. i do not therefore reject the text in order to welcome the efforts made, but i cannot accept it because, although colombia seems to be moving in the right direction, the path traveled is not yet significant.
in writing. the european parliament has called for the eu to be given a role in the negotiations on the free trade agreement with peru and colombia. a non-binding agreement on human rights in exchange for this far-reaching trade agreement is - the day after the nobel peace prize was awarded - an extra painful mistake. colombia, which is the most dangerous country in the world, is violating human rights in many ways. many workers' social rights are under pressure, trade union leaders or human rights defenders are threatened with death or murdered. not a word about this. in peru, it is estimated that there are no less than 250 pending environmental conflicts, mainly related to mining. this agreement will not contribute to sustainable development in the two south american countries, it will not eradicate poverty. it will not mitigate the catastrophic effects on many indigenous populations. it will in particular raise the prices of commodities. finally, the agreement provides for the deregulation of the financial sector. it's incomprehensible in times of global crisis. money laundering will only get easier. it is clear that this agreement does not draw the map of the south! needless to say, i voted against this report.
in writing. i have been very involved for several years in issues concerning colombia. on the one hand, i must admit that the present government seems to be making fruitful efforts, the situation, which was catastrophic 10 years ago, is improving, the socialists have introduced very interesting clauses in the text on respect for human rights and on the establishment of road maps to be respected by the government. however, these clauses are unfortunately not suspensive, people continue to die for their ideas and the government still has to make efforts, it seems to me, not only in the short term but also in the medium and long term. i do not therefore reject the text by my colleague mario david, in which he welcomes the efforts made in colombia, but i cannot accept it because, although colombia seems to be moving in the right direction, the progress made is not yet significant.
in writing. 2012 was the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations. the right to health is a fundamental right. this right can be considered as one of the foundations of the right to live in dignity. in fact, is not the first article of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (2000) devoted to the inviolability of human dignity? in addition, population ageing is one of europe's main challenges: 87 million people in the union are over 65 years old (17.4% of the population), and this will be more than 150 million in 2060 (about 30% of the population). given that older people are much more active than in previous decades and that the evolution of life expectancy continues to increase markedly in our societies, it is important to prevent all kinds of threats that could undermine this progress. it is in this context that measures such as prevention and early diagnosis of certain diseases which mainly affect women are justified and necessary.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. the population of the european union can only age gradually because of low birth rates and longer life expectancy. european policies have increasingly integrated this dimension, as demonstrated by the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations in 2012. the aim is to promote healthy ageing for all by providing access to quality health care and preventive measures that help older people to remain independent for as long as possible. i hope that the european commission will join parliament in the importance of publishing a new report on the state of women's health, paying particular attention to the over-65 age group and the indices of active ageing.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by a very large majority of this new resolution to take action against antibiotic resistance. this was important given the fact that the number of resistant bacteria in europe is growing exponentially. in view of this, we must ensure that the use of antimicrobials for both humans and animals is reduced. but we also need to close the gap between the rise in resistance on the one hand, and the development of new antimicrobials on the other, by stimulating research and innovation. if we don't take action now, growing antibiotic resistance could threaten our ability to treat patients. i also welcome the fact that the resolution stresses the need for better training of doctors, pharmacists, veterinarians and farmers and calls for more information to the general public on the harm caused by inappropriate use of antibiotics.
in writing. the development of antimicrobial resistance is not new. the impacts of this development are many. if antimicrobials are used irrationally and inappropriately (for example, if patients do not take the full course of treatment or if the antimicrobials are of poor quality), the risk of ineffectiveness is high. the dangers can be many: antimicrobial resistance is killing people, undermining the fight against infectious diseases, sometimes raising health care costs, and jeopardizing some of the advances in modern medicine. it is therefore important to regulate and limit the use of antimicrobials, and thus to ensure their responsible and prudent use. there are several leads that i think we can follow. policies at member state level need to be more firm. prevention must also be more effective (campaigns, communication and training). investment in research is also important for the development of alternative treatments. i would like to conclude by saying: "let us act today so that we can still treat tomorrow".
in writing. seven months after the plenary vote on a resolution sounding the alarm about the resurgence of bacterial resistance to antibiotics, the european parliament is still in the process of adopting the rosbach report on the microbial challenge. this is a major health issue and much remains to be done, particularly in terms of preventing and reducing the use of antibiotics in veterinary medicine. this is without affecting the health of the animals. clearly, the health system needs to evolve and it is essential that veterinary health professionals increase the awareness of farmers about new farming practices and the importance of hygiene conditions. however, contrary to what was voted this afternoon, i think that the decoupling of the right to prescribe and the right to distribute veterinary medicines is a false good solution. that is why i voted against the second part of paragraph 16 of the resolution. the point here is not to decide in favour of a professional organisation, veterinarians against pharmacists, but to face reality: veterinary prescribers, especially in rural areas, play a vital role as sentinels in the event of emerging zoonoses (brucellosis, foot-and-mouth disease, bse, etc.).
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, in particular because the revision of directive 2001/82/ec will allow effective measures to be taken to limit antimicrobial resistance by strengthening the provisions on veterinary medicines. it should be remembered that the widespread use of antimicrobial drugs, especially in livestock, leads to resistance to these drugs and therefore reduces their effectiveness in humans as well. to that end, the commission should review the conditions for prescribing and marketing antimicrobials in order to avoid over-prescribing, over-use or misuse of antimicrobials.
mr president, commissioner, in politics sometimes we are led to swallow slugs and sometimes we are forced to do so for reasons of realism. but i have the feeling that the council is trying to sell us a bill of goods which we are likely to digest for a long time and which does not bode well for the next steps. it is true that, despite the commitments signed by the presidents, the logic of delayed payment is still being followed, and the effects of this will be felt in the coming months. we are persisting in iter, whose urgency and relevance in these times of crisis will have to be demonstrated to me. the growth pact, which was the council's own wish, is being buried in a certain way, and so i think that if the council proposes this, it is not so surprising when we know how it works, but if parliament accepts it, even if i say with the tip of my fingers, when we have to vote tomorrow, i think it is a little worrying, especially since jacques delors reminded us in an interview yesterday that 'we would need a budget of the order of 20% of european gdp'. i think that the position we are taking, regardless of how we assess this compromise, is not one which will strengthen us for the next steps but rather one which will leave us fragile and weak for the future debates, which are far more important than the debate on the 2013 budget.
mr president, without the adoption of the sixth amending budget, the bills relating to students, erasmus, social inclusion, the european social fund and aid for workers made redundant, with the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund, would remain unpaid. we can therefore only adopt this budgetary adjustment, even if it is less than the real needs, and the council knows this. i therefore regret that once again the member states, through the logic of the package, are imposing their minimalist views on us, and that we are falling victim to this blackmail of 'it's all or nothing', this game of dupes without the appropriate means of payment. we must force the member states to honour their commitments and, tomorrow, break the tie of dependence between the european budget and national budgets by means of new and sufficient own resources and an exemption from the member states' contributions to the european budget. because now more than ever we need ambitious and credible european budgets.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs for their hard work. it hasn't been easy, and we're still a long way from the finish line. the airport package comprises three very different proposals, to which we as a group would like to adopt a very different attitude each time. in the noise issue, mrs leichtfried has struck a very good balance between the need to achieve a minimum of harmonisation in the way noise is dealt with and the procedures to be followed, on the one hand, and the principle of subsidiarity and the need to take account of the outcome of local negotiations, which are usually very delicate, on the other. as regards slots, new mechanisms have been adopted to optimise the use of slots: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. but we must dare to go further, and we wanted, as a group, to be more flexible for longer series, for example with regard to the 80-20 rule, in order to optimise the case even further. but it's a step in the right direction. as regards the further liberalization of groundhandling services, i want to make it very clear that we as socialists and democrats cannot support either the commission's proposal or the rapporteur's proposals. in both cases, the emphasis is far too much on increasing the number of dealers, when we know that there are airports with few dealers and very good performance, and there are airports with many dealers and perhaps poor performance. we want to see a shift in focus towards quality of service and better social rules of the game to make unions binding, to establish high-quality training for employees, and to make the transfer of employees automatic. we shall therefore vote tomorrow to reject the commission's proposal. but i would like to add, for the sake of clarity, that we remain prepared to negotiate if there is an opening on the basis of our proposals and our conditions. we think the current rules of the game are not good either. so something has to happen in the right direction and that's what we want to work on. but what is on the table today is not enough and that is why we will vote against it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the airport package has indeed led to a lot of discussion, and as the epp coordinator, the work has not been easy. you have heard it, and that is why i would like to introduce some nuance into this subject - particularly in the area of ground transport services - in german today. but first, the noise. i think that the work - and i would like to thank the rapporteurs in general - is good in this respect, because it essentially takes account of the respect of many agreements reached with local residents under regional or national legislation and environmental legislation, and i do not think that this leads to different situations in europe. i come from a region where this has cost several million euros and where we have been able to link businesses, residents and service providers in a very good contract. i think that is the goal we want to achieve and can achieve. as far as the newsstands are concerned, i would like to see improvements in this area too, because the most important thing for me is to prevent the misuse of newsstands and to really show the unused niches and to improve transparency. i would like to say the following about ground transport services: if you look at what we passed in 1996, there were no minimum standards in terms of quality, there were no standards at all in terms of training, there were no standards for continuing training. so if we are to take this opportunity - and you must tell the 3000 people outside - then this dossier - and the epp has decided by a majority - must be referred back to committee for further study and improvement. this is the chance. it is not a question of drastically expanding the market if we envisage a liberalization from two to three suppliers, which affects a minimum number of airports in europe. i believe that citizens should be given fair information and not information that is presented in exaggerated form. i would also have liked to have had this debate on the part of certain colleagues when we discussed the postal service directive. because the market was getting smaller, and there was little concern about the mailmen and their social conditions. here the market is growing, and here people are worried. it's too local for me. so i hope that through a good debate in the committee we can come to a sensible solution and, in particular, to better working conditions for all the people. and better working conditions, that's my conclusion... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, it is not illegal to want to improve the accessibility and quality of airports, but the impact of aircraft noise and night flights on health is, in my view, no longer to be demonstrated. it is not simply a matter of convenience, as some try to make it seem, but a matter of health, and in some cases, life or premature death. secondly, mrs meissner, to take a balanced approach by ignoring the recommendations of the who, excuse me, but that is not a balanced approach. on the other hand, we are not asking for all operators to be required to have the same noise controls. we are asking for an identical rule which prevents the commission from unraveling what local authorities have long and sometimes difficultly agreed at local level. finally, as regards the liberalization proposal, i do not see what difference it makes to go from two to three operators. i do not see how liberalisation will help us in any way to make services more competitive. you'll have to prove it to me! in the transport sector, i do not see how this improves the quality of service. i therefore really hope that this plenary will follow the committee's advice and reject this proposal rather than refer it back to committee.
in writing. it is important that the commission in its proposal establishes the causal link between the quality of the final product - the service - and the quality of human capital - the workers and their working conditions. but it is precisely on this point that i would have liked to see the commission take a more ambitious and consistent approach. the safety of the service, the expertise, the continuous training of the employees and the guarantee of a fair remuneration are essential for us. we must not allow the competition to be settled purely on the basis of the wages and working conditions of the workers. the quality of service is guaranteed to deteriorate. the increase in the minimum number of bidders is not a miracle solution either. at many european airports where the market is already fully liberalised, the big global players are swallowing up the small ones. in the event of such takeovers, workers must not be the victims of market forces and their job security must be guaranteed. we must give the european parliament's committee on transport a second chance to formulate a socially balanced position.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no budgetary union without fiscal union, without abandoning the dogma of fiscal competitiveness, which in reality undermines the sustainability of public finances. and for whose benefit? the richest 20% of our society, or even 1% of the population. to do that, we must break the lock on the rule of unanimity in tax matters. it is unacceptable that a member state alone can block any initiative in tax matters. in this sense, enhanced cooperation on the financial transaction tax is a first opportunity to break this deadlock. but there must be others, because, beyond the financial transaction tax, it is high time to tackle these multinationals which, by making billions of profits in europe, thanks to european consumers, are content to pay at best a few million in taxes. we will therefore need stronger cooperation on corporate taxation and, why not, a joint initiative to put an end to the tax tourism of bernard arnault, gérard depardieu and others of the same kind.
in writing. we must vote for enhanced cooperation on the financial transaction tax! the european parliament's support for the ftt has had a significant impact on the commission and the council in the past. parliament must continue to support the ttf. firstly, to ensure consistency with previous positions, but also to send a strong signal to european civil society and to those states that do not yet support the project, to join the coalition. enhanced cooperation shall comply with union law and respect the rights of non-participating states. it can also have a positive effect on the internal market. the fears of mass relocation are also unfounded. the scope of the ftt must be as broad as possible: not only shares and bonds but also all derivatives. finally, the ftt with 11 countries could raise 37 billion euros in revenue. these vast sums could be usefully spent to meet social needs in europe, but also to help poor households around the world who are suffering the consequences of a crisis for which they are not responsible.
in writing. animals travelling from one member state to another are sometimes transported for 40 hours without food, water or rest. slaughterhouses which cannot find enough animals to slaughter in the area where they are located are willing to pay the price to bring in animals from far away, so that they can operate at full capacity. it is therefore only for economic reasons that animals are transported over long distances. there is no valid reason for such inhumanity. animals should be slaughtered close to their breeding grounds and their carcases should be transported. in addition, veterinary checks must be increased, the loading densities of animals must be significantly reduced, horses should travel in separate compartments ... there is still much to be done, and we cannot do it by backing down. that is why i am asking for a strong gesture from our parliament: that the total duration of transport of animals be limited to a maximum of 8 hours, whether they are intended for slaughter or for fattening.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i have to say that i am very sceptical about the summit tomorrow and friday, as indeed is mr draghi. he is quoted in today’s press as saying that he fears vague and slow decisions and that he is disappointed by the lack of ambition for the summit – and, let us be honest, it is true. last june the european council decided that, before the end of the year (and i am quoting now), ‘we should have a time-bound roadmap for the achievement of a genuine economic and monetary union to bring back confidence in the markets’. we all applauded here in parliament – and what draft conclusions do we have for tomorrow’s summit? almost nothing. they are very vague; there is no clear roadmap; there is no real backing of the van rompuy paper in the conclusions; there is not even a welcome of the blueprint of the commission. i think that the only outcome tomorrow will be that the council will decide on the single supervisory mechanism. but i also have to tell you that we have already done that. the council decided on this in june. the council decided a second time – you remember, mr barroso, it was here, in the debate with mr van rompuy – in october, and now this is the third time that we will be deciding on the single supervisory mechanism. it is becoming ridiculous. what is also ridiculous, in my opinion, is what i hear from some european leaders such as mr hollande, stating in oslo that the crisis is over now. what crisis is over? the crisis is not over – not economically, not socially (just look at all the damage in the economic field) and not financially. look for example how over the last few days the spreads have gone up again – for spain they were above 400 today, yesterday, three days ago. for portugal they have gone up again, for ireland as well – not to mention italy, but there are other reasons, naturally, for that phenomenon. my question to the president of the council is: is that the type of conclusions? maybe you had better have no summit tomorrow and the day after tomorrow than this type of summit, because in the end it will create more problems in the market than it resolves, because you are clearly not delivering what you promised six months ago. my second request is to the commission, which has done a lot of work on the blueprint, but every time it says: ok, it is in the treaties and the treaty does not allow this and the treaty does not allow that and we have to come back after 2014. maybe it is a good idea to have fast european elections, because the real reason why we cannot do a number of things – for example the redemption fund, a fiscal capacity for the euro zone, treasury bills – is, as we all know, not the treaty, mr barroso: the real reason is political, because there are elections in germany and before september we cannot decide on all these topics that are so important. that is the real reason. my proposal is to be very honest on this and not to say every time: ok, it is not possible because of the treaty here, it is not possible because of the treaty there. there is now a new decision of the european court of justice, the pringle judgment. the pringle judgment makes possible treasury bills, the redemption fund and a fiscal capacity for the euro zone, and if you say ‘no’, look to the council. in the last trialogue even the council legal service contradicted you on this issue and said that it was possible under the conditions of the pringle judgment. et enfin, monsieur le président, ma dernière remarque porte sur l'italie. ce qui se passe est tout de même insensé: un homme politique dit qu'il va revenir aux affaires et le gouvernement tombe, et l'italie est en crise, et c'est toute l'eurozone qui est de nouveau en crise. je sais que joseph daul, hier, a pris ses distances. je voudrais simplement lui demander une chose supplémentaire: mets-le à la porte du parti populaire européen, qu'on en finisse avec cette histoire, que l'italie puisse retrouver la stabilité le plus vite possible, et aussi l'eurozone, parce que, en fait, quel jeu est-on en train de jouer? qui sera là demain au sommet du ppe? il sera là? peut-être que vous pouvez nous le dire: il sera à côté de mme merkel et à côté des autres? (l'orateur accepte de répondre à une question "carton bleu", conformément à l'article 149, paragraphe 8, du règlement)
answer is "blue cardboard". so, if i understand correctly, there is a legal case against mr berlusconi. so we can expect mr berlusconi to be expelled from the epp. okay, that's all right! (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – naturally, before i attacked mr farage on his presence in the committee on fisheries – i am not stupid – i looked at my own presence in the committee on constitutional affairs. from the files i see that i was present 23 times in this period and mr farage twice – i was there ten times more, i think, so maybe it would be a good thing if he received 10 times less salary than me!
madam president, i was amazed seeing the three presidents receiving the nobel peace prize. it was pretentious, pompous, if not pontifical – the trinity of self-complacency. why not hand the nobel peace prize to three ordinary european citizens right away? but no, it went to three shiny, well-paid gentlemen presiding over european institutions and being served at their will. ordinary citizens only came in today, after the show. gentlemen, what did you achieve to deserve it? the entire euro zone is heading for recession. greece, spain, italy and portugal are already there. france and germany will follow suit. economic forecasts are always too rosy. according to you, the greek economy will grow steadily in 2015. this is too rosy and you know it, but you lack the courage to tell ordinary people. you are creating a european transfer economy by which some countries have to support many others. the many are stuck in recession and demand more, while the few will slip into recession too. the result is growing resentment – the old demon of europe. gentlemen, you are sowing the seeds of future conflicts. take president schulz, who mysteriously disappeared. he proposed that british meps should not be allowed to discuss euro matters in parliamentary committee. he intends to exclude them. he is starting the process of unravelling the eu and this note is a smoking gun. it is all in here. now, mr schulz, i cannot imagine that you want to become the milošević of the european parliament. resentment is the poison of europe, and the impact of his letter is spreading it, so i urge him not to open this can of worms. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – madam, of course i honour the achievements that we have made. i have always been a supporter of european integration. the only criticism i had is that it should have been given to ordinary citizens right away, and not to the presidents of the three institutions. furthermore, i am just wondering about the timing. we are in the deepest of crises at the moment in europe; we are facing a monetary, financial and economic crisis. we have an unemployment rate in spain of 25%, and for young people it is 50%, so there is nothing to be proud of. what is the future showing us? we are slipping into recession and there is no way to come out of it any time soon. that worries me, and in time resentment will rise. i am against resentment, but it is the old demon of europe: we have to contain it and prevent it. mr farage is spreading it, i am not spreading it. but we have to be careful, because resentment is the thing that will finish europe.
president, commission president, president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, a great many measures have already been taken, but the flaws in the fabric of economic and monetary union which have painfully emerged from the crisis have not yet been completely eliminated. trust has been restored, but it is still too fragile and very weak. there is still a lot to be done, of course, but our work is far from finished, and so we need to know where we are going, in the short term, in the medium term and in the long term. we delivered a broad parliamentary report on 20 november and the commission last week launched its blueprint in which we agree and which provides excellent guidance. i hope that the heads of state or government will reach conclusions that maintain this level of ambition. the ecb has also been creative. it has announced decisions which give us some breathing space, but these measures are like paracetamol; they don't cure the disease, they just make the fever go down temporarily. the real cure is something which must be politically manufactured, and so let us use the breathing space to carry out concrete structural reforms, reforms which we can also reap the rewards of in a few years' time. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european banking supervisory system is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i fear that the sense of urgency is fading away, and i hope that the conclusions of the european summit will contradict me in this.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, if mr šefčovič wants an agreement on the two-pack then i want agreement on the two-pack, but he has to take a step towards parliament. if you do not do so, commissioner, you will not have a majority, and you will have a problem. you have known for six months what the problem is, because six months ago we adopted — by a majority of more than 500 votes — a resolution on this subject which stated that you have to take a step towards the mutualisation of debt through a redemption fund, as the german sachverständigenrat (council of economic experts) has proposed. why do you have to do this? because otherwise it will be impossible for countries like spain to recover. they still have these high interest rates; you have to do something to get the interest rates down, and this is the only way to achieve that. you say there are legal problems: there are no legal problems. since the pringle judgment the situation has been very clear. the pringle judgment makes it possible to establish such a fund under certain conditions, which are specified in that judgment, in full compliance with article 125 of the lisbon treaty. why the objection to intergovernmental action? you accept intergovernmental things every day. the efsf is intergovernmental, and you accept it; the esm is intergovernmental, and you accept it; the fiscal compact is intergovernmental, and you accept it. it is only when parliament asks you for something that you have a problem.
the european council will be considering the report by mr van rompuy. i can only say that this report has gone completely wrong since its outline was presented in june. i was only moderately positive in june. the fundamental balance that must be found to build economic and monetary union in a sustainable way was still there. the balance is that on the one hand there is a strengthened central control over the budgetary policies of the member states and the economic direction they take. but it also sets out a framework in which normal solidarity mechanisms are anchored within the eurozone. the version of the report to be debated on thursday makes a prominent case for further budgetary discipline and punishment. the proposals are concrete and the timing is tight. the institutionalisation of greater solidarity is already very vague and the tracks (no concrete proposals) are being put on the back burner. and on the further democratization of the eu, perhaps the most essential component for building a sustainable monetary union, we can only spew out vague ideas.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also point out that the epp has already written that we are asking for the document to be referred back to committee, irrespective of whether you want to vote on it now or not.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the amending budget for 2012 by the european parliament on 12 december. this amendment was necessary in order to ensure that the eu respects its commitments to member states that have committed national funds. this mainly concerns scientific research programmes, emergency aid for adaptation to globalisation and the erasmus programme. it was important that the latter could be saved and sustained, since it truly embodies european values and the objectives that the eu has set itself in terms of exchanges, culture and language learning. i also welcome the strong commitment of members of the european parliament that this budgetary increase will not be at the expense of the 2013 budget and that the priorities of the 2013 budget are shared by parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of this amendment. however, i would like to make it very clear to the council and the commission that the joint declaration on payment needs for 2012 must be seen as a political agreement on the need to reach agreement at the beginning of 2013 on an amending budget intended solely to cover this amount of eur 2.9 billion and to grant additional appropriations in relation to the payment appropriations adopted in the initial budget for 2013, without prejudice to the proper implementation of the 2013 budget!
in writing. it was a vote of reason rather than of heart, because the union had to be brought out of the budgetary impasse and prevent union programmes, such as erasmus, from being blocked. i had to. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget. we have succeeded in having an additional declaration signed by the presidents of the three institutions added to the joint declaration on payment needs for 2012, which states that the backlog of 2.9 billion in the 2012 amending budget will have to be financed from fresh money. we have tabled amendments in plenary and voted on them to express our dissatisfaction with the agreement reached in the council. europe needs its own resources more than ever.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text proposed by my distinguished socialist colleague, frédéric daerden. we live in difficult times in which the citizen is too often the victim of a crisis which he did not decide and for which he cannot be held responsible. the union has put in place appropriate legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and to assist them in their efforts to reintegrate into the labour market. italy submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of 512 redundancies, of which 502 are covered by the aid. i now hope that the financial aid given today to the workers made redundant will be dynamic and provided as quickly and efficiently as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text proposed by my distinguished socialist colleague, frédéric daerden. we live in difficult times in which the citizen is too often the victim of a crisis which he did not decide and for which he cannot be held responsible. the union has put in place appropriate legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and to assist them in their efforts to reintegrate into the labour market. sweden requested aid to deal with 3 748 eligible redundancies, 1 350 of which were covered by the aid measure, at saab automobile sa, one of its subsidiaries saab automobile powertrain ab , and 16 of its suppliers in sweden. i now hope that the financial aid given today to the workers made redundant will be dynamic and provided as quickly and efficiently as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text proposed by my distinguished colleague. we live in difficult times in which the citizen is too often the victim of a crisis which he did not decide and for which he cannot be held responsible. the union has put in place appropriate legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and to assist them in their efforts to reintegrate into the labour market. spain applied for aid in respect of 1 106 redundancies, 500 of which are covered by the aid application, in 423 enterprises. i now hope that the financial aid given today to the workers made redundant will be dynamic and provided as quickly and efficiently as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text proposed by my distinguished colleague. we live in difficult times in which the citizen is too often the victim of a crisis which he did not decide and for which he cannot be held responsible. the union has put in place appropriate legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and to assist them in their efforts to reintegrate into the labour market. denmark has requested aid for 303 redundancies, 153 of which are covered by the aid measures, in flextronics international denmark a/s during the four-month reference period from 1 july to 31 october 2011, including 87 redundancies outside the reference period but attributable to the same collective redundancy procedure. i now hope that the financial aid given today to the workers made redundant will be dynamic and provided as quickly and efficiently as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text proposed by my distinguished colleague. we live in difficult times in which the citizen is too often the victim of a crisis which he did not decide and for which he cannot be held responsible. the union has put in place appropriate legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and to assist them in their efforts to reintegrate into the labour market. romania has applied for aid in respect of 1 904 redundancies, 1 416 of which are covered by the aid application, in sc nokia romania srl and one of its suppliers in romania. i now hope that the financial aid given today to the workers made redundant will be dynamic and provided as quickly and efficiently as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text proposed by my distinguished colleague. we live in difficult times in which the citizen is too often the victim of a crisis which he did not decide and for which he cannot be held responsible. the union has put in place appropriate legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and to assist them in their efforts to reintegrate into the labour market. austria applied for aid for 1 050 redundancies, of which 350 were covered by the aid measures, in 105 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 88 ('social action without housing') in the region of styria. i now hope that the financial aid given today to the workers made redundant will be dynamic and provided as quickly and efficiently as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text proposed by my distinguished colleague. we live in difficult times in which the citizen is too often the victim of a crisis which he did not decide and for which he cannot be held responsible. the union has put in place appropriate legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and to assist them in their efforts to reintegrate into the labour market. finland has requested aid to deal with 1 000 redundancies, all of which are covered by the aid measure, at nokia (salo) in finland. i now hope that the financial aid given today to the workers made redundant will be dynamic and provided as quickly and efficiently as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution rejecting the commission proposal on the regulation on european statistics on crime prevention. the proposed instrument must be based on an appropriate and consistent methodology and an adequate analysis of the costs and benefits in relation to the expected results. the proposal does not answer any questions about the method used and i therefore insist that the commission should propose a clear and fully coherent instrument, which is not the case with the commission proposal.
in writing. - the rapporteur, mr kirkhope, is not wrong to argue that it is unclear whether the €12 million for statistical data on crime in the european union is a useful expenditure. i agree with that, especially since experience shows that the really important data - such as the ethnic origin of the perpetrators - are still being withheld because it is not politically correct. i am surprised that parliament has suddenly become thrifty. tomorrow we are voting on a multiannual framework for the 'european union agency for fundamental rights', a much more expensive spectacle which is mainly concerned with the fight against 'racism and xenophobia' - as if not enough efforts are already being made at every possible level of government. can we therefore expect them to be abolished, or is that too much to ask?
in writing. − ground handling services at european airports have already been liberalised since 1996, with the exception of four main ground handling services, namely baggage handling, apron handling, refuelling and cargo and mail handling. in such cases, the number of providers may be limited to two. the commission's proposal is to increase the number of providers from two to three. most european airports are not faced with this expansion, but there are some airports which want to protect their market and not be exposed to competition because of their existing monopoly. the argument of social dumping, security and loss of quality is used as a pretext for protecting the market. however, these arguments do not stand up to scrutiny, because this report sets out for the first time training and continuing training schemes, a minimum of social regulations and quality standards for the ground handling service providers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. moreover, an increase in the number of service providers does not lead to social dumping, provided that certain standards are set, as envisaged in this case. in addition to improving quality and safety, this further liberalisation of ground transport services may even lead to an increase in wages. it is even absurd to reject such an important report, which has a clear added value for the industry and is another step towards the single market, because of the resistance of some european airports. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. at the heart of the proposal put forward by the european commission was the objective of increasing the minimum level of groundhandling service providers from two to three for airports handling at least 5 million passengers per year. i voted against the commission's text and against the referral back. my main criticism was the social impact of the liberalisation of ground services on workers. we also wondered about the effect of the proposal on quality of service, about the possibility of including more providers at the larger airports and about safety issues. the s&d group has expressed its firm opposition to any further liberalisation of this market as long as social safeguards are lacking. further liberalisation of the market for groundhandling services at the expense of workers, in the form of lower wages and increased job insecurity, is not the solution required to increase the competitiveness of european airports and airlines. the share of stopover services in the ticket price is around eur 2.
in writing. - in addition to their considerable commercial value, the time slots at airports are still very opaque in their allocation. i therefore consider it essential to renew the existing 1993 regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a uniform manner, and that the rules are applied in a uniform manner. however, there are also aspects which i do not think need to be changed, and one of them is the existing 80/20 rule. this provides that if an air carrier uses less than 80% of a sequence of slots, it loses those unused slots. these then enter a time-space pool. although the commission had envisaged 85/15, this change would ultimately result in a 90/10 system and therefore result in airlines having to operate the flights at all times, including empty planes, in order not to lose their slots. this would be contrary to the very purpose of this proposal, which is to increase efficiency.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to strengthen the mechanisms for allocating and using slots and to promote fair competition by stimulating competitiveness between operators. i would particularly like to stress that the commission's proposal must be a starting point for improving airport efficiency. the impact study clearly shows that the current system of allocation of slots in the union is not optimal for airports with limited capacity and that it is therefore imperative to use existing airport capacity as efficiently as possible.
in writing. - noise pollution is an important issue in transport, but in aviation in particular it is a matter of local and regional responsibility. i therefore welcome the fact that the commission has put forward a balanced approach to noise in this proposal, covering several aspects such as land use planning and noise abatement, but i welcome the fact that these are guidelines. the present report has established that the commission has no supervisory powers, so that it may review the noise-related operating restrictions imposed by airports from the point of view of the procedure, but it cannot intervene in this matter. this is important to maintain local and regional responsibility.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. the proposal takes into account the comfort of citizens by updating existing measures to enable local authorities to improve the noise environment around eu airports in the international framework of the icao's balanced approach to noise management. the balanced approach must be applied consistently. this balanced approach covers all noise mitigation measures. first, the reduction of aircraft noise at source is mentioned, and then planning and land management measures are added. in addition, operational noise reduction procedures (use of runways, roads and specific procedures) will be provided. finally, there is mention of exploitation restrictions where appropriate. all this requires an assessment of the noise abatement operating procedures to be carried out and provides for adequate consultation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. good, regulated and reliable statistics are a must for economic policy. they are the basis of all politics. equally important, they generate confidence among citizens and in the markets. as the current economic crisis has shown, inaccurate or falsified statistics are completely undermining the confidence of international financial institutions and markets, which is exacerbating the crisis. this dossier aims to establish a rigorous governance structure to ensure the integrity and quality of statistics in the european union. the proposals in my dossier for the five-year european statistical framework are based on the recommendations adopted in my report on the quality management of european statistics, including: stronger governance frameworks, including for independent agencies; public and standardised audit systems; user-friendly statistical information; support to member states to comply with the programme. these are the key themes of this report.
in writing. − eleven member states, including belgium, but also france and germany, are today ready to take the lead and introduce a financial transaction tax. this will require financial institutions to make a significant contribution in times of financial and economic turbulence in the future. this is a two-in-one shot. once implemented at a rapid pace, it is estimated that it will generate over eur 32 billion of additional revenue per year (eur 57 billion when implemented in the 27 member states). in addition, this tax provides for more stable markets by curbing financial speculation. the agreement of parliament to go ahead with a number of member states is therefore an important signal. i am convinced that this will be a strong incentive for other member states, but also for countries outside the eu, to reach a global agreement on the introduction of a financial transaction tax.
in writing. the european parliament today gave its green light to the enhanced cooperation decided by 11 eu countries to introduce a financial transaction tax. this is the first enhanced cooperation in the field of taxation, where all decisions require unanimity. france, germany, belgium, portugal, slovenia, austria, greece, italy, spain, slovakia and estonia are among the first signatories to this enhanced cooperation. the netherlands, which has been openly reluctant, has recently expressed interest and could join the club. as a reminder, all transactions between financial institutions (banks, stock exchanges, investment companies, insurance companies, hedge funds) should be taxed. the tax rate would be 0.1% for equity and bond trades and 0.01% for derivative contracts. the tax would apply where at least one financial institution participating in the transaction is established in the union, even if the transaction takes place outside the union. the tax could bring in between 10 and 30 billion euros. so this is a good first!
in writing. we must vote for enhanced cooperation on the financial transaction tax! the european parliament's support for the ftt has had a significant impact on the commission and the council in the past. parliament must continue to support the ttf, both for consistency with previous positions and to send a strong signal to european civil society and to those states that do not yet support the project to join the coalition. enhanced cooperation shall be in accordance with european union law and respect the rights of non-participating states. it can also have a positive effect on the internal market. the fears of mass relocation are also unfounded. the scope of the ftt should be as broad as possible: not only shares and bonds but also all derivatives. finally, the ftt with 11 countries could raise €37 billion in revenue. these considerable sums could be usefully invested to meet social needs in europe, but also to help poor households suffering from the consequences of a crisis for which they are not responsible.
in writing. i am one of the meps who in 2011 signed the written declaration to limit the transport time for animals for slaughter to eight hours. it was therefore important that parliament should reiterate this request this afternoon when voting on the wojciechowski report. and that by a very large majority: 479 votes in favour, 140 against. not only does better protection of animals during transport meet a growing demand from citizens, but it also demonstrates the european union's commitment to an ambitious and coherent animal welfare policy. some findings already need to be made: the lack of uniform compliance with european legislation on the transport of animals in the member states; the significant increase in the number of animals transported for the period 2005-2009: 8% for cattle, 70% for pigs and 3% for sheep. the recognition that animal welfare during transport also depends on the adaptation of vehicles and the correct handling of animals. therefore, animal welfare must be based, like many other policies, on a holistic approach based on scientific foundations and on the belief that animals are sentient beings.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. during the period 2005-2009 covered by the regulation, there was a significant increase in the number of animals transported: 8% for cattle, 70% for pigs, 3% for sheep, with only the transport of horses falling by 17%, so that the objective set out in point 5 of the preamble to regulation (ec) no 1/2005, which provides that 'for reasons of animal welfare, the transport of animals for long periods of time, including animals for slaughter, should be limited as far as possible', is not met. the objective of the regulation, namely to restrict the transport of animals, has therefore not been achieved and the union's policy in this area must be reviewed. i have in fact consulted the commission in recent weeks to express my concerns about the transport of animals and the lack of homogeneity of national legislation. i was also very attentive in this report to paragraph 14 because there is no question of allowing transport for too long for any reason.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution on fundamental rights in the eu because the text is a series of politically correct clichés which often go against one of the most fundamental fundamental rights, namely the right to freedom of expression. it is also urgent that rights should be linked to duties.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mr beňova. to underline one of the elements of this text that is close to my heart, i would like to emphasise the call for measures to ensure the continuity of communication channels allowing for the sharing of information on fundamental rights in the union between the bodies concerned and within the union institutions and agencies, and to organise an annual interinstitutional forum to assess the situation of fundamental rights in the union. i believe that this forum should be a preparatory stage for its annual debate on fundamental rights and the development of a european area of freedom, security and justice.
yesterday, the committee to protect journalists announced that a record 232 journalists are in prison worldwide. turkey, not a candidate country for membership of the european union, leads the dubious list with 49 journalists in prison, followed by iran and china. i can predict with near certainty how the european union will respond. we take note of the facts, we regret the facts and then we move on to the agenda. in the meantime, the negotiations with turkey are still proceeding as if nothing had happened. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. another issue, which is never discussed here, is the situation in south africa, where violence is becoming more extreme and more dramatic, and where farmers and other white citizens are being specifically targeted. it is still waiting for the first serious initiative from the european union in this area, and that too is a disgrace.
firstly, a simple observation which is important. what we call here so easily universal human rights are not really universal human rights, but things, achievements, which are first and even almost exclusively achievements of what i would call western civilization. these are accomplishments that, in fact, are hardly ingrained in other cultures. this is important because this science can prevent us from making wrong or foolish interpretations of world events. for example, the report by mr tavares rightly points out that the arab spring, which is so much celebrated by this parliament, has in fact in many cases led to a deterioration in respect for human rights, for example the rights of non-muslims in muslim countries. anyone who wasn't blind could have predicted that back then. these reports lack clear language! communism, post-communism and the rise of intolerant islamism are the main ideologies currently leading to systematic violations of human rights.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, when we started preparing our various drafts for today’s resolution, we did not know yet the conclusions of your council meeting that took place on monday. nevertheless, when you compare even the initial texts and the texts of the council conclusion, you will see remarkable parallels in our various approaches. we do, of course, very much regret the announcements made by the israeli government to build 3 000 extra housing units and further develop the plans in area e1 which, if implemented, would effectively make a contiguous state of palestine territorially impossible. we regret the decision to withhold taxes, especially since both these decisions and announcements came just days after the vote in the general assembly of the united nations. it seems to us that, with these announcements, the israeli government is undermining the legitimacy of mahmud abbas – and by extension, such an undermining of his legitimacy can only reinforce the status of hamas, which from the point of view of israel is a rather paradoxical attitude. we have welcomed – and i do welcome – the conclusions of the council of ministers, and i believe that the high representative and her team have played a discreet but important role in coming to these conclusions. we should not forget that these conclusions have been approved unanimously by all the 27 member states, and this is something that the israeli government should carefully ponder and consider, as they should carefully analyse the vote that intervened in the united nations general assembly. it is significant, as my colleague mr gahler said, that only one single eu member state chose to side with israel, so to say, and the other ones either approved the palestinian bids or abstained. if the government of israel continues to act as they do, they might end up completely isolated, and that would be a pity because it would make the search for a lasting solution even more difficult.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. i think that the fundamental rights office is one of those european institutions which are completely redundant and can therefore best be abolished immediately; a nice saving of a little over 25 million euros a year. the relevance of this successor to the notorious european observatory on racism and xenophobia, which was set up at the time as a kind of anti-democratic reaction to the success of identity and euro-critical parties in europe, is actually a mystery to me. such institutions already exist - and are largely subsidized - in all our member states. even for people who find this work useful - and i'm not one of them - it's got to be getting a little too much of a good thing. what i think is that in these institutions it is usually not about fighting real racism or real xenophobia, but that this is just a ploy to sweep under the rug the very real immigration problems and to circumvent free speech about them.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, with particular emphasis on the need to better formulate the agency's multiannual framework for the period 2013-2017. it is hoped that the commission will reassess and propose to revise the agency's tasks, areas of action and working methods in 2013 in order to ensure effective implementation and monitoring of the charter of fundamental rights. it is essential in this respect that the council should include judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the list of thematic areas.
in writing. in voting on this report, i would like to stress with the rapporteur that, while the quality and relevance of certain written declarations can indeed be disappointing, it is important that the institutions to which a written declaration is addressed inform parliament of the action they intend to take within three months of receiving the said declaration.
in writing. i abstained this afternoon from voting in the european parliament's annual vote on human rights and democracy in the world. i regret that the text has been distorted by the addition of a totally unbalanced paragraph on the western sahara conflict. this historic conflict, a legacy of decolonization, has been going on for more than 40 years. it is a conflict between two legitimate aspirations and cannot be resolved by partial, radical or false positions. our parliament, and this is its role, condemns oppression, all oppression. president schulz recalled this yesterday when he awarded the sakharov prize to two iranian oppositionists. demands must be expressed by peaceful means and in compliance with the rule of law, which implies respect for the rights of the defence, including those of the majority of the population. the case of western sahara is particularly explicit in this respect. parliament is not impressed by this addition, which reflects a truncated view of history.
in writing. i will highlight five main points on which i have made a commitment and whose presence in the text confirms my positive vote: 1) the need for the union to strengthen its human rights policy and to speak with one voice on the subject; (2) the promotion of basic labour standards through free trade agreements; (3) stricter controls on exports, transfers, brokering and transit of dual-use goods; (4) the call on member states to put an end to discrimination and intolerance on any ground: sex, race, age, sexual orientation, religion or belief; 5) the priority protection of the rights of women and children through european policies.
in writing. the report welcomes the strategic framework and action plan to improve the effectiveness and coherence of the union's human rights policy. it stresses the role of parliament in implementing this revised policy framework. we fought over several amendments: 1. lessons from the arab spring: the eu needs to engage with a wide range of stakeholders (in addition to official authorities), such as civil society organisations, trade unions, political parties and other relevant actors. 2. the improved coordination and cooperation between the union and its member states to define clear priorities and common objectives in the field of human rights. 3. the to be a credible actor in the field of human rights, the union must be consistent in its internal and external policies by applying the same standards within and beyond its territorial borders. 4. the it is necessary to develop precise indicators and specific benchmarks in the context of the strategic framework, to serve as a basis for monitoring and measuring human rights progress in third countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr swoboda, which gives an update on the negotiations with russia on a new agreement to replace the current one dating from 1997. the rapporteur, mr swoboda, stressed the union's desire to benefit from a strategic relationship with russia, but said that this could only be possible if russia moved closer to european values of democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law. at the same time, the report takes the pragmatic view that cooperation with russia is needed on a number of pressing global issues, including the un security council syria issue, iran's nuclear programme and global efforts to counter proliferation and terrorism. the report is highly critical of russia's disturbing internal developments, which are manifested in laws and judicial practices that increasingly stifle freedom of expression and legitimate political activities. despite these negative developments in russia today, the best options for relations with that country remain dialogue and engagement, not a renewal of cold war rhetoric.
in writing. i strongly support the motion for a resolution on the israeli government's decision to expand settlements in the west bank, and particularly emphasise the call on the israeli government to resume the transfer of tax revenues to the palestinian authority, in accordance with the signed agreements and with the essential aim of not aggravating the humanitarian situation. i also stress the importance of the agreement of 21 november 2012 negotiated by egypt, which puts an end to the conflict between the gaza strip and southern israel. finally, i would stress the call for palestinian reconciliation, the only way to reunite the palestinians living in the gaza strip, the west bank and east jerusalem, who are part of the same palestinian people living in the occupied palestinian territory.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the ukrainian authorities to find a reasonable solution to the tymoshenko case, in collaboration with the european parliament's envoys aleksander kwaśniewski and pat cox. it also welcomed the decision of the verkhovna rada to set up a parliamentary inquiry committee to examine the problems that had occurred during the elections and the violations of the electoral law. the resolution also urges the president, the government and the parliament of ukraine to continue, intensify and strengthen the process of modernisation and reform in order to bring the country closer to the standards common to the countries of the european union. it also notes that close cooperation with the european union in the framework of the association agreement would be the best way to achieve many of these reforms. the resolution also makes a strong appeal to the high representative/vice-president ashton and commissioner füle to increase the union's commitment to ukraine with a view to achieving political association and economic integration. the resolution also stresses the need for the european union to continue to strive to exploit the full potential of eu-ukraine relations for the benefit of the citizens of ukraine and the union.
in writing. i voted for this resolution. i believe in the importance of free and fair elections which establish the legitimacy of democratic institutions and ensure their proper functioning. i call on all political forces to conduct next year's election campaign and the 2013 parliamentary elections in a free and fair manner. i am firmly convinced that the elections will be an important test of the maturity of albanian democracy and the ability of all political forces to commit to a common european agenda for the country, while being essential for further progress in the accession process. the consolidation of democracy requires free and fair elections whose results are considered legitimate by all the political parties concerned!
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i remain convinced that the union and its member states have a role to play in coordinating policies to ensure that the steel industry, which is sustainable and competitive, is able to adapt to the conditions prevailing in the changing european and non-european markets. in many member states, the european steel industry is suffering from a sharp drop in world demand, in some cases from competitiveness problems and rising costs.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. the steel industry employs some 360 000 people and is therefore a key economic sector in the european union. i believe that parliament has a duty and an obligation to show its solidarity with the workers at the ilva steelworks and their families, who are affected by this totally unacceptable situation. in addition, it is strategically important for the industrial policy of the union to avoid any further relocation of steel sites and steel production outside the european union and to ensure that employment is guaranteed. it is equally important to apply the polluter pays principle; and the ecological balance must be restored or even improved, as required by directive 2004/35 on environmental liability.
