so when we talk about protecting european values, these issues are not left and right. i am therefore surprised at the colleagues from the european people's party who, without much argument, defend their party position rather than the objective european position. what is happening in hungary is clearly contrary to european values, but the problem is even bigger. in other countries, for example, romania, bulgaria, there are similar processes that may not be in such a final form, but they also exist. the measures taken by the european commission and the european parliament will therefore be very important in order to signal to anyone who wants to follow this path that it cannot be done in this way. there are many examples that can be given in this regard. the recent presidential and local elections in bulgaria were an example of how not to hold democratic elections, and this is seen in the report of the organization for security and cooperation in europe. the media's dependence on governments is a fact in hungary, in bulgaria, in romania. total party pressure on independent regulators is also a fact in bulgaria, where all independent institutions were forced to resign and be replaced by loyal party cadres. pressure on the judicial system is a daily occurrence in these countries. investors are leaving countries not because of economic risk, but because of political risk. and these are problems that need to be seen in the european union. they are because of the contradictions of european values. just because something is legal doesn't mean it's fair. many governments have come through legal channels, including in bulgarian history, and have brought repression. the commission and parliament must therefore take action.
today's debate is not against the hungarian people and it's not just about the situation in hungary. the orbán government's drastic, in-between-parts reforms are a provocation against the european values and treaties that underpin a united europe. urban policy is a test of the will to fight against authoritarianism, xenophobia, populism and the suspension of democracy. it's not just a hungarian model. all the things we've heard about hungary, the rigging of elections in bulgaria for the benefit of the ruling party, the police in romania, the roma in france or the freedom of the media in italy. the european institutions are in debt. if the european commission had not been satisfied with only the cosmetic recommendations in the media law in hungary, it would not have written a second letter today in defense of their independence. we need a new pact, not just for financial stability, but a pact for the stability of democracy, because after the financial and economic crisis, the most terrible is the political crisis, more severe and with more terrible consequences.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would first like to thank you for all your kind words, which i will also convey to the very hardworking people in dg clima when i see them tomorrow. i know they will appreciate that very much. so thank you. i will make only three points. first, in response to some of the recent interventions, i would say that those who were always rather sceptical towards kyoto should be very happy with what happened in durban. because what we are talking about – what we actually did achieve – has been one of the key priorities for the european union for many years, namely achieving an international system in which not only the traditionally developed countries but all the big economies should be equally legally bound. this is not a trivial thing for europe. it was always an essential thing, and the further we move into the 21st century, the more it is clear that you cannot cope with a global problem by having only those countries that were labelled as developed countries back in 1992 being obliged to do something. that was the big step forward in durban, namely that all countries in the end agreed that in the future they would somehow have to be legally bound and that we would be equally legally bound. i believe that there the allied effort involving the alliance of small island states (aosis) played a role, because while it may not have mattered that much in beijing and washington if europe asked them to commit, when a total of 120 countries – among them the most vulnerable and the poorest countries in the world – said that they were ready to be equally legally bound, then it is clear that the pressure on china and india, in particular, grew, so that in the end they shifted their position. this was significant. my second point is directed at dan jørgensen. basically i agree, as dan knows, with many of the things he says. if it had been better to say, at the last minute, ‘no, we do not want it’, then we must also ask ourselves what the alternative would have been if europe, norway and a few other countries had taken a second commitment period and then – full stop. if that had been the outcome of durban, would the fight against climate change then have been better off or would it not have been better off? would we have achieved more or less? i think it is beyond dispute that we would then have achieved less in durban. we can always reflect on what would have happened if we had said no. would we have another chance in 2013 or 2014 in doha? but sometimes, as politicians, we have to try to cash in what can be cashed in when it is possible to cash it in. my basic point to mr jørgensen is that it is not a question of either ‘bottom-up’ or ‘top-down’. it is not ‘either/or’, but rather it is ‘both/and’. we must have both the international framework – the rules – and the regional, national, local, business and all the other efforts. this is why i believe that we actually did make some progress although, as i said at the beginning, not nearly enough. i believe that if the timeframe here is important and if we agree that it is important to stay below the 2°c – and there is a matter of urgency here – that is why we also still need to have an element of ‘top-down’. that is my third and last point, because i agree with those who have said that the process is still fragile. many battles lie ahead. so i agree that we cannot now afford to sit in europe and just wait for whatever comes next in the international negotiations. that is of course precisely why, over the past 18 months or two years, the commission has come up with a communication on how to move our targets, with our low-carbon roadmap and the energy roadmap; has proposed an energy efficiency directive; has come up with substantial multiannual financial framework proposals with a substantial climate, environment, energy-efficiency and resource-efficiency component; has come up with a proposal on energy taxation; and has come up, as requested, with tasks and values. the list is even longer. this is very much proof that we in the commission do not think we should sit idly waiting for the big international agreement. we must continue to move forward in europe. i agree very much with corinne lepage and others who say that this is also about economics. it is about how we, as a region and as an economy, will become more competitive through energy efficiency, resource efficiency and using intelligent climate and environment policies as a driver for innovation. other regions in the world – our competitors – are joining this race. we are still the front runner. i look forward to working with the european parliament to ensure that europe stays in that position. if we are to achieve that, we will soon have to be extremely busy getting all the initiatives the commission has proposed through the council and parliament. we look forward to working with you on all these issues.
in writing. the 17th un climate change conference ended with the adoption of an agreement providing for a roadmap to combat climate change by 2015, with entry into force in 2020, and the extension of the kyoto protocol, the only legally binding framework for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. while we cannot speak of a real victory in durban, we can nevertheless welcome the fact that, through intensive negotiations, the 190 delegations from the major economies have committed themselves to the long term. but the big victory is certainly to have managed to keep the two most reluctant parties at the negotiating table: the united states and india. the united states has always been skeptical about climate change, and india is one of the emerging powers that does not recognize its own involvement in the current climate situation and considers it to be the responsibility of formerly industrialized countries. this is a reality, but can the historical responsibility of europe and the united states justify the irresponsibility of the major polluting countries?
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members of parliament, we have two important issues today on the agenda, one of course connected to the weee. i would first of all like to congratulate the european parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mr florenz, and the shadows and their teams for the success achieved in the negotiations on the directive on waste electric and electronic equipment. parliament and the commission have been standing side by side in this debate, fighting for ambitious collection targets for e-waste to increase resource efficiency, fighting for a clear reduction of administrative burdens and fighting to give the member states’ enforcement authorities an effective tool against illegal exports. by and large we have succeeded together. i am satisfied that the proposed directive as it is now on the table goes a long way towards meeting the objectives that the commission set out to achieve with our proposal. of course, i would like to move towards these improvements more quickly and also further, as mr florenz mentioned, and i am sure many of you would too. but this directive clearly puts a new momentum and new dynamic into management of e-waste and it deserves our support. just to give you an idea of what level of improvement this directive will bring compared to the existing directive, let us do a quick calculation. the current collection target for weee is four kilos per capita per year in each member state. with 500 million citizens in the european union, that means that member states are obliged to collect around two million tonnes of e-waste out of 10 million tonnes of e-waste we generate every year. that is about 20%. in fact they collect rather more because some of the countries are overshooting that target. the new directive will oblige the member states to collect the equivalent of at least 85% of e-waste generated, so by 2020, when we estimate that europeans will be throwing away 12 million tonnes a year, we should be collecting at least 10 million tonnes of weee. ten million tonnes including lead, pvc, chromium, mercury and cadmium that will then be treated in an environmentally sound manner; 10 million tonnes including gold, copper, silver and platinum and other valuable raw materials that can be pumped back into the production cycle, reducing production costs and also emissions. this calculation is perhaps not very scientific, but it nevertheless shows that we have taken a truly big step forward from the current weee directive. separate collection of weee is essential to making recycling profitable. proper treatment is crucial to ensure that harm to the environment and human health is prevented. we are highly concerned at the environmental and human health cost of smash-and-burn methods used in some third countries. legal and legitimate exports of used equipment declared to be for refurbishment have in the past been abused to cover up illegal exports of what was in fact treated as waste and was in quite poor condition. the commission will therefore continue to work in international forums to prevent legal channels for exports of used equipment being abused for illegal waste shipments. i can say today that the commission can accept the text negotiated between the institutions and will do its best to ensure smooth and full implementation after adoption by parliament and the council. the commission will make a number of declarations to accompany this adoption, which i will briefly summarise. firstly, concerning product design: the commission will assess the feasibility of introducing the respective requirements when adopting implementing measures pursuant to the eco-design directive. secondly, we will state that transitional arrangements for member states with difficulties meeting the new collection targets must be limited to exceptional circumstances. the difficulties faced and the specific circumstances on which they are based must be objective, well documented and also verifiable. thirdly, where nanomaterials are mentioned in the text, the commission understands them to be those falling under the definition of nanomaterials set out in the commission recommendation. potential risks posed by such nanomaterials would be identified with tools available under the appropriate legislation for this purpose. fourthly, the commission considers that to be consistent with the treaty, the powers conferred on it to establish methodologies for calculating the amount of electronic and electrical equipment put on the market and the amount of weee, and to set additional rules on inspections and monitoring in article 7 (5) and 23 (4), should be delegated powers. the commission therefore informs parliament that it reserves the right to pursue the legal remedies provided by the treaty with a view to seeking clarification from the court of justice. finally, the commission will also make a declaration on the procedure for adoption of implementing acts. used electric and electronic equipment is the fastest-growing waste stream and one that contains valuable materials and rare metals worth recycling into new products. nowhere is it more clear that waste really is a resource and therefore crucial in achieving a resource-efficient, competitive economy. yes, you have heard well. it is not only a question of environmental preservation; it is also one of the central questions of the competitiveness of european industry in the future.
on behalf of the group the alde. after long and difficult negotiations between the council of the european union and the european parliament delegation, an agreement was reached on the new directive on electronic and electrical waste. here i would like to express my gratitude to commissioner potočnik for his exceptional cooperation and cooperation, and to rapporteur karl-heinz florenz, who showed strong leadership and contributed to the overall strong position of the parliament and the positive end result. with the new, better directive, we are setting the stage for better, higher quality recycling of electronic and electrical waste. as you know, only 30% of this waste is treated to the standards of the directive. the other 70% ended up either in landfills or were illegally exported outside the european union, which is a significant loss of valuable raw materials for all of us. the new directive will create the conditions for the creation of a new common european market for the collection and treatment of electronic and electrical waste. the directive provides for an open scope, i.e. six years after the entry into force of the directive, 2018, all electronic and electrical waste will fall within the scope of this directive. a new, more ambitious collection target will come into effect after 2019, when we will collect 65% of all electronic and electrical waste from appliances placed on the market. another innovation that will greatly contribute to increasing recycled quantities and a more efficient raw materials policy is the obligation for retail outlets with an area of more than 400 square metres to accept small electrical and electronic appliances from consumers. i sincerely believe in the merits of the new directive. i believe that this is a great success for us all and i believe that it is a success for all europeans, for their good future.
in writing. almost without exception, our society prefers to throw away all waste, including those containing valuable rare materials that our industry is finding increasingly difficult to procure. only one third of electronic and electrical waste is recycled as required, the rest goes to landfill or illegal export to third countries. the new directive is an important step towards more complete recycling, as it sets ambitious targets: 85% of the e-waste generated (or 65% of the electronic equipment placed on the market) must be collected in an organised way by the end of the decade. requirements are introduced for the development of standards for the collection, treatment, recovery, recycling and re-use of such waste, in order to establish uniform high technological standards in the member states. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the full entry into force of the new directive is expected after a six-year transition period, but then all e-waste will in principle fall within its scope, eliminating both potential environmental threats and the waste of a true and rare treasure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of josé bové's 'report on the farm supply chain: structure and consequences' because i believe it is a step forward towards reducing farmers' dependence on the agro-materials industry and towards a fairer position for farmers in the food supply chain. farmers are facing a harsh reality -- starting with land rentals, especially in my country bulgaria, where 90 percent of the farmers don't own the land they use, going through the high prices of resources and materials and coming down to the low purchase prices. to deal with this situation, we need to work in two directions. one is related to the work of the competition authorities and institutions. we need to analyse the reasons for the high prices of materials, to avoid a situation of dominance and unfair competition by traders in agribusiness. secondly, we need to help farmers themselves find alternative ways to offset high prices, to manage resources efficiently and to take effective savings measures, and to encourage processing. in addition, we should not burden manufacturers with other requirements and administrative procedures which would lead to an even greater increase in their costs.
mr president, the situation in iran emphasises more than ever that the iranian nuclear programme has to be addressed effectively by the international community. and let us also not forget about ongoing issues, such as the permanent violations of human rights in that country. we should once again call on the iranian authorities to cooperate fully with the iaea on all issues, particularly those raising concerns about the possible military dimensions of the iranian nuclear programme. this includes access without delay to all sites, equipment, persons and documents requested by the agency. the european union has been taking a pragmatic and straightforward approach when it comes to sanctions against iran. madam high representative, should sanctions not deliver on their objectives? could you elaborate on how you intend to collaborate with middle east countries, and in particular with turkey, in advancing towards a workable solution? how feasible is a direct dialogue between the eu and iran?
mr president, our report was not only political, it was also an intellectual challenge – an attempt to describe the current situation, to foresee future developments and, on that basis, to outline policy proposals for our relations with the brics countries. it is time for us to wake up. in many cases the eu institutions and the european leaders still live in a world of the past that no longer exists. our eurocentric views and approaches often lead to failures, or half successes, for us on the global scene. we need to catch up with reality. baroness ashton, you should take this report not as a criticism of you, but rather as a call for action. however, i would like to warn against attempts to simplify the picture and to regard the brics countries as a kind of unified political bloc. indeed, we have no interest in seeing them move closer to one another to create a counterweight to the eu that will not necessarily be based on the principles and values we find important. that is why i would recommend an intensification of bilateral relations without artificially pushing these countries towards greater cohesion. the european parliament can play an important role here. parliamentary cooperation with some of these countries is producing good results. others seem to be less interested, but that should not discourage us. a good step would be for the european parliament to be invited to participate in bilateral summits. as regards brazil, i am one of those who very much supported the establishment of a bilateral parliamentary cooperation committee and i am sure that this will be a reality as of 2014. by the way, the amendment which mentions this possibility in the report was introduced by the s&d group, and specifically by ana gomes.
mr president, it was not possible to give the floor to ana gomes for a blue-card question, and since no time has suddenly arisen to allow a blue-card question from my colleague from the ppe group, i will not respond to that question.
in writing. – until recent times, europe’s diplomatic efforts were mainly turned towards the us and other industrialised countries. nowadays, globalisation and the emergence of the brics as major exporters on international markets are the driving forces behind the industrialised countries’ loss of global market shares. this has brought the eu to reconsider its foreign policy towards these countries which have gained colossal power on the international political chessboard. nevertheless, the approach on how to reshape our foreign policy towards the brics is, in my opinion, too often based on the fear of industrial competition, especially in the case of china. as a matter of fact, if all brics present common challenging features, such as a prominent land size, a large population, a rapid economic growth, they also provide formidable opportunities for the eu’s market in the fields of exports. that is why our foreign policy should be built on the grounds of these positive prospects as opposed to dreading irreversible rivalry.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, ms bastos, and the members of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality for drafting a very sound report and for their ongoing support for the daphne programme. under the new multiannual financial framework, the commission proposed to cover all the activities currently being supported and carried out by the daphne programme with the future rights and citizenship programme. let me answer directly the question that has been posed: under the new programme, all the current daphne objectives and activities will be supported, and the budget in this new programme is compatible with the budget that was available up to now. the approach of the commission under the multiannual financial framework focuses on simplification, flexibility and eu added value. under the approach outlined, the commission aims to develop the best possible synergies between three activities: combating violence, gender equality and the rights of the child. they are now brought under one programme which will address emerging and innovative challenges, many of which are outlined in ms bastos’ report. i want to stress that the new programme remains open to all entities, all member states and third countries, and all types of projects and activities that have been supported and are receiving funding under the daphne iii programme. the new structure of the programme will help the commission to improve the programme’s management and to address more efficiently deficiencies as identified in the mid-term evaluation of the daphne iii programme, which are also noted in the report. this includes, for example, the need to improve dissemination of results and the geographic spread of projects. participants will benefit directly from improved management of the programme because procedures will be easier, faster, less bureaucratic, more uniform. something which required two procedures would now need one. lastly, in 2012, the commission will update the daphne toolkit. this database of projects to combat violence will facilitate the wider dissemination of news of project outcomes by european and national stakeholders. the intention is to maintain this database under the new multiannual financial framework programme and to use it as a model for the dissemination of project results in all areas. let me finally stress, as the commissioner for humanitarian aid, that we would have no foot to stand on morally if we assisted other countries to fight gender violence when we were not doing a good job at home. in this sense i personally strongly support the report and the actions we take in this area. may i also say i am returning the two minutes that i took from our previous segment.
in writing. the daphne programme is an important tool for preventing and combating all forms of violence and for promoting international action in this area. over the past year, i have been running a large-scale campaign to promote european programmes in bulgaria, including daphne. i have found that the lack of information in accessible language and of experience in implementing partner projects has had an impact on the activity of stakeholders. given that daphne addresses one of the major problems of our society - violence against women, children and young people - i believe that its results should be promoted and used more widely, including in relation to the new risks associated with the use of the internet. violence among children and young people can cause deep psychological and physical traumas that can leave an imprint on their overall development, and we cannot remain indifferent and inactive. the dissemination and exchange of information, experience and good practices, the creation of action networks, the conduct of public awareness campaigns and the opening of hotlines for victims of violence are key measures that should continue to be supported at european level.
mr president, during the first two world wars, women lost their husbands and sons on the front. today, women are the direct victims of conflict. women are particularly vulnerable in these situations, whether they are displaced, imprisoned or raped. i am glad that our parliament is finally taking a stand to make sexual violence in wartime a war crime. for this, we must commend the excellent work of our rapporteur, mrs nicolai. the consequences for victims are of two kinds: physical and psychological. but this violence also has a much wider impact: impact on men, who have not been able to protect their wives, impact on children, impact on the community. the effects of war are thus extended over time and across generations. i welcome all the solutions presented today in this report. women have a role to play in conflict resolution, in political dialogues for peace. they have a role to play in civilian missions, but also in military missions to resolve conflicts. finally, i believe that our union would benefit from having a special representative for women, security and peace. my question, madam commissioner, is this: can we envisage the creation of such a post? if so, when?
in writing. − i gave my support to the proposed ep resolution on the european dimension in sport for a number of reasons related to its essential role and contribution in various areas. i would like to highlight, however, one aspect of sport that i find extremely important these days: its unifying and educational role in relation to young people. sport promotes integration and social inclusion, teaches children teamwork, tolerance and respect for others. its educational and social functions, in addition to its contribution to public health, make it an attractive tool for influencing people's behaviour. i share the view that it has the potential to re-educate vulnerable and at-risk groups of young people and that this potential should be developed and supported. on the other hand, it is an undeniable fact that we often witness riots and acts of aggression by supporters of various teams at sporting events, especially in football. i support the need for strict and coordinated measures to combat them, because in addition to direct negative consequences, they can have indirect ones, such as a negative impact on the behavioural formation of children and young people.
in writing. − the financial and economic crisis that began in 2008 has shown us that we need more adequate and flexible rules in the areas of state aid, public procurement, mergers and monopolies. in supporting the european parliament's draft resolution on the annual report on eu competition policy, i have taken the position that reforms are needed in these areas. competition is the main driver of the single market, allowing us to move freely between goods, services, capital and people. on the one hand, it enables consumers to make the best choice, and on the other hand, it is an incentive for economic development. i also share the view that a more comprehensive analysis of the functioning of markets and competition is needed in key sectors such as energy, telecommunications, transport and raw materials, which have a major impact on the economy as a whole. the food market is also of great importance to consumers, where we have seen problems associated with rapidly rising prices. i also support the need for further efforts to open up the credit rating agency sector to competition, believing that this will bring about greater transparency in their activities.
although bulgaria is not yet part of the euro area, there are some sectors of the bulgarian economy in which transactions and payments are already traditionally made in euro. for example, such a sector of the economy is the real estate market and renting. however, when someone wants to make a transfer in bulgaria, even from one bulgarian bank to another bulgarian bank, this transfer being a foreign exchange, is treated as a cross-border transfer and a fee is charged, both to the payer and to the recipient of the money, and it's a fairly high fee. for example, for a normal rent of eur 200-300 the total charge collected is eur 32. that's a 10% increase. i believe that this regulation, which we are debating at the moment, if adopted in its form as proposed, will be a decisive step towards eliminating this extremely unfair treatment of european consumers and especially of consumers in member states outside the euro area. but there is another very important thing that this regulation shows, that despite all that is said that interest, fees, etc. can only be determined by market conditions, with these proposals that are made in this regulation, we are proving that interest, fees, etc. can be regulated by regulatory acts. this is the proof that here in europe this act is accepted and we must move in that direction.
the acta trade agreement, which has stirred up the passions of europe in recent weeks, has been the subject of intense work by the european commission and the governments of all member states since 2006. unfortunately, they have failed to convince the european public that the agreement ensures a fair balance between intellectual property rights and the fundamental rights of the global network users, which in the 21st century are all of us. i think the european union needs such an agreement, but not with the doubts about free access to the internet and the guarantee of protection of personal data. those doubts are not cleared. i believe that the european public's confidence in the agreement has already been largely exhausted. i have made my decision that i will vote against the ratification of acta as it stands in the presence of the above-mentioned doubts. let us also recall our call of 24 november 2010 to the commission to confirm that the implementation of the asta will not have an impact on fundamental rights and data protection. that's the most positive confirmation i've ever heard. and finally, i can't help but mention one political point. it is a pity and a shame that there are political parties and groups who want to take advantage of the legitimate discontent of the internet society in europe, making themselves its defenders and forgetting that some of them were involved in the preparation and mandate of the european commission for the signing of this agreement. the subject is very important and sensitive and i do not think it should be used for short-term political gains.
the situation in bulgaria is getting worse, but the commission has only pointed out the symptoms, and the causes are media censorship and the manipulation of monopolies that breed corruption. colleagues, and especially you of the epp, are you not concerned that the prime minister and his party are your members and you, the guarantors of democracy, support a dictator who discredits, represses, even kills anyone who stands in his way. he's compromising not only you, but the entire european union. we give a shit about democracy in third world countries, and we don't see that we have a dictator with jamahiriya here. the bulgarian was the biggest euro-optimist, but because of the borisov government, which hides behind the big back of the epp, they no longer believe in your good intentions. a colonel became the face of the arab spring, let this general not become the symbol of the european one. prove that there is no prejudice here and that you care about the truth. otherwise it will turn out that not only in bulgaria there is controlled democracy, but unfortunately in europe as well.
madam president, after months of peaceful social protest, oil industry workers were shot and killed by the police in the city of zhanaozen, western kazakhstan, on 16 december 2011. their legitimate demands for social justice and a better life were met with bullets. an investigation is ongoing. so far, no results have been publicly released; however, the prosecutor’s office made an official statement justifying the use of weapons. repression is continuing. no less worrying is the fact that, right after the parliamentary elections in january won by the ruling nur otan party with 80% of the vote, opposition leaders and journalists were detained. it seems that every effort is being made to silence critical voices. while recognising the important role of kazakhstan as a partner of the eu in central asia, i also believe that the country should show more progress in reforming its political system and in respecting human rights and the freedom of the media. in this context, german chancellor merkel last week signed contracts worth eur 3 billion with president nazarbayev of kazakhstan. while we might call that understandable, what is not understandable – and is even shameful – is that the right wing in this parliament rejected the request for a resolution on kazakhstan, obviously in order to downplay criticism of ms merkel.
member of the commission. - what you say, mr president, about greece, which is the most exceptional and serious case and which also requires exceptional treatment, is generally true. i personally and deeply believe that we cannot, in relation to european citizens at the moment, talk only about austerity, regulation, surveillance, governance. these are all words that are binding, even if they are words and actions that are necessary. we also have to talk about growth. we must also raise the horizon for citizens in terms of jobs and development. that is true for greece, it is true for the whole of the union. that is why i find it extremely positive that at the last european council, some ten days ago, the main part of the agenda was devoted to growth. what can be done now to get the economic machine going again in the countries where it is needed? what can be done in the medium and long term? for example, with the single market act, of which the services directive is one of the elements, we have an agenda of a dozen measures to facilitate mobility, employment, exports, innovation and trade, in order to boost growth in the medium and long term. other initiatives can be taken, such as project bonds for shorter-term growth. i believe that in greece, in the context of a plan worth 130 billion euros, it is not just a question of restoring public finances, of safeguarding the banking sector, but also, particularly through the structural funds, of taking immediate action to restart employment and growth. it is in this context, mr president, that the service economy, which is so important for your country, one of the most open and tourist-oriented in europe, occupies a special place which will attract my full attention in order to implement concretely and effectively this directive on services with and for greece.
member of the commission. - i thank you, mrs vergnaud, for mentioning two different and complementary aspects of your question. the first is the public services and the implementation of this quality framework which we have proposed in two cross-cutting texts with my colleague mr almunia. one of these texts concerns state aid, and very specifically - as you have observed, and as the associations or non-governmental organizations concerned have informed us - it protects the exercise of social services. the second transversal text, which is a major element of this quality framework, is the laying down of measures concerning public services and concessions. this is a complementary issue and i think it is just as important as the wider social economy and social entrepreneurship, which, according to figures, ladies and gentlemen, accounts for between 15 and 17% of gdp and employment. in many cases these are not public services but profitable businesses which either involve social inclusion among their employees - disabled or other people in difficulty - or have a vocation for solidarity, inclusion, social solidarity in their own activities. we have organized, for the first time at commission level, a few weeks ago in november, a conference with professor yunus, which brought together 1200 people to help us work on three subjects. the first is the financing of these enterprises and the commission has put forward a first proposal on the solidarity investment fund, which is a new vehicle. the second is the regulatory and normative or statutory framework, which is the point you mentioned. we have presented the statute of the european foundation, as we promised, a few days ago, mrs vergnaud, and it is now being discussed in the council and in parliament. my colleague tajani is working on statutes for organisations which are extremely important - cooperatives, mutual societies - and it is important to look at how, in relation to these structures, things can be improved further at european level. the third project on social entrepreneurship is the visibility of these activities through indicators and labels, and this is a project i am pursuing. in any case, i am personally mobilized, together with my colleagues, mr andor and mr tajani and others, to ensure that this sector, which has undoubtedly been neglected or forgotten, which is extremely important, which is well situated in the competitive economy, is now supported by the commission's initiatives. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that there can be no sustainable economic performance without a number of conditions: an efficient single market, a major effort in innovation and research, and social cohesion. and when we talk about social cohesion, we are talking about the two subjects, mrs vergnaud, which you have mentioned: public services, of course, or basic services, in particular social services, but also the social enterprise sector, which i have just mentioned and which we support.
member of the commission. - i also reply to the question on cooperatives, the sector of which is shared between mr barnier and myself. as part of the improvement of the legal environment, we have launched a study to analyse the current situation of mutual societies in europe. the results will form the basis for reflection on a new political initiative, including a possible proposal for a european mutual insurance status. this work will complement the european parliament's study launched in early 2011. we will also publish a report on the application of the european cooperative society regulation for the european institutions. the report will be discussed at two conferences in the year which has been declared the international year of cooperatives by the united nations. the first conference will be held in april with the trade organisations and the second in september during the cyprus presidency. as far as cooperatives are concerned, i believe that the social impact is very important. we will continue to support them as we have done with the cooperative banks. i will give you an example: i organized a trip to brazil on the subject of the internationalization of small and medium-sized enterprises and i took some cooperatives with me to try to support the networks of internationalization of cooperatives. i think this is a very important sector and i agree with what commissioner barnier said.
my question is to commissioner tajani. the adoption of the services directive was an important step towards completing the single market. as services account for around 70% of the european economy, their potential to stimulate economic growth and job creation is considerable. however, it must be acknowledged that member states have encountered difficulties in transposing the directive and, despite the three-year time limit for doing so, there have been significant delays. in addition to transposing the european directive into national law, a number of measures relating to the implementation of the provisions of the directive were also needed. however, the period of more than two years is a period that allows the measurement of results. does the commission have specific data, analyses and assessments on the impact of the services directive on the european economy, and in particular on smes, to date?
first of all, i would like to congratulate the commission, which has managed in just four months since the last hearing here in parliament to resolve this question, which has been pending in the council for two years. what has been achieved is good and is in fact in line with the resolution we adopted then. but don't let it go, commissioner. now is the time, as we now see that the period that was agreed as a compromise is only for less than two years. so, given the difficulties this programme has had so far, you should start preparing for its continuation in the next programming period as of tomorrow. and i will use this opportunity to remind you, as i said in my previous speech, that bulgaria is the only country that is not yet participating in this programme, that is, it is giving money for it but not receiving it back, and to ask you to take the necessary action so that all european countries become participants in this programme.
in writing. – current estimations from the commission reveal that 50 million people in the union are at risk of food poverty while, for a number of reasons, fewer and fewer surpluses are available in the framework of the scheme for food distribution to the most deprived persons in the union, set up in 1987. as a matter of fact this aid, which provides food-aid for 13 million people across the eu, is losing its capacity because on the one hand, the reframed cap has increased dependency on market purchase while on the other, the current economic crisis has considerably aggravated poverty. if food aid is only a short-term form of assistance in the struggle against poverty in europe, we need to insist on its importance being maintained and enhanced. the rise in inequities among eu citizens is a threat to the eu, and access to food must be one of our priorities as it concerns fundamental rights and human dignity. the fight against poverty and exclusion is one of the five pillars of the europe 2020 strategy and the most urgent one to reach.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement between the european union and morocco on reciprocal liberalisation measures for agricultural products, fish and fishery products has many advantages. as has just been shown, it will allow for a liberalisation of 70% for european exporters, compared with 1% at present, and a liberalisation of 55% for moroccan exporters. the elimination of tariffs will mean an annual gain of eur 100 million for european exporters. with this agreement we will show our support for the programme of democratic reforms launched in morocco, with its new constitution, which is in full accordance with the principle of 'more for more' in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. as 40% of the moroccan population is employed in agriculture, the agreement will help reduce poverty and promote peace and prosperity in the southern mediterranean region after the arab spring. if we really want to help our neighbours in the present economic climate, we should, of course, be prepared to make concessions too. we have also expressed our concerns about the agreement in a draft resolution which calls for morocco to continue its efforts towards democracy and development. in order to offer european farmers guarantees, such as the effective implementation of the entry price system and quota restrictions for sensitive moroccan products, there is of course a need for better application of the conventions of the international labour organisation and equivalent measures between the european union and morocco on the environment and water management, as well as phytosanitary rules. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as the fictitious rapporteur, i would ask you to vote in favour of this agreement in order to maintain the credibility of the european union in morocco and to send a clear signal of support for the reform efforts of the moroccan government.
on behalf of the alde group. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work on this complex but crucial report for all of us. with this proposal, the commission proposed the first pan-european programme dealing with strategic planning and harmonisation of the use of radio spectrum in the european union. the main objective of the programme is to increase the number of available frequencies for wireless broadband internet communication. the programme will also support the development of a european network of information and communication technologies (ict) and the development of a european network of information and communication technologies (ict) for the benefit of citizens and businesses. but harmonisation of radio frequency bands is much more than a mere technological improvement for the european union. this harmonisation is indeed a key component in achieving the single market in europe. by extending the single market to cover radio spectrum bands, the european union will provide the digital infrastructure needed to develop the single internal market and strengthen different parts of our economy. this harmonisation will promote pan-european services and reduce the administrative burden on individual member states. only then will the european union be able to take a leading role in the services sector and in the development of a competitive knowledge-based economy. the facts show that data traffic on mobile networks worldwide will double every year until 2014. therefore, it is imperative to free up more radio spectrum for wireless broadband communications. but we have to act very quickly.
in writing. today we are witnessing a number of negative consequences of the financial crisis, both economically and socially. rising unemployment, the increased risk of poverty and social exclusion and job insecurity are some of the problems we face and which require rapid and adequate solutions. with resources constrained by the crisis, it is necessary to focus our efforts on policies that are most conducive to growth and sustainable development, and these should be widely reflected in the 2012 annual growth survey. member states and the european commission should ensure that timely and coordinated measures are taken to improve the labour market situation, with particular attention to young people, women and other vulnerable groups. the fight against unemployment, especially among young people, must become a top priority, supported by actions for training, qualifications, traineeships, and the promotion of entrepreneurship. it is also important to establish a closer link between education and business needs, which would also ensure greater opportunities for graduates to achieve their professional goals. encouraging youth mobility and providing more flexible working conditions would contribute to increasing labour productivity and improving the competitiveness of the european economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the 'report on the distribution of food to the most deprived persons in the union' by czesław adam siekierski because i believe it is an important step forward towards improving the situation of the most vulnerable eu citizens. i believe that these are the people most directly affected by the economic crisis and that now is the time to send an important political signal and show that the eu is doing everything possible to help the most deprived people in one of the most difficult moments. the programme is a confirmation that the eu is accountable to its citizens not only in terms of progress and stability, and this is an important message not only for us but for the whole world. it provides real support in a similar way to the school fruit scheme and the school milk scheme to over 18 million people in 19 member states. this is a significant proportion of the eu population, and i believe that any further delay will have a negative impact on all those who benefit from the programme, and we should at least do that to them. in conclusion, i would like to say that we need to be more ambitious in our intentions and find a way to ensure that those in need will continue to receive help after 2013.
member of the commission. - mr president, first of all i am very pleased that you have all expressed your concern to the commission with vehemence, criticism and great sincerity, and i am rather encouraged by what you have asked the commission to do. i have listened to you very carefully, ladies and gentlemen, on a subject on which i am, for many reasons, personally involved in my public life, namely the place of disabled people, whatever their disability or illness. i think, as mrs harkin said, when she spoke of a citizens' europe, and as mrs lichtenberger said, that those who have the greatest difficulties, who have the greatest number of frailties, who have a disability, have the right more than others to the accessibility you mentioned, mrs lichtenberger. many of you, mr morganti, mrs băsescu, mrs blinkevičiūtė, mrs werthmann, mrs ţicău, mr romeva, have mentioned the number of people - several million - who suffer from disabilities and, in particular, from blindness. i would like to say to them, and to myself, to quote mr cashman earlier, that i find the present discrimination intolerable. i would also say this to mrs prendergast and mrs swinburne, who have spoken on this subject. we are engaged in a dialogue with our international partners and the commission intends to work, as encouraged by the european parliament's view, to advance the rights of the visually impaired. before we commit ourselves to a binding treaty, as you wish and to which i am open - and i will tell you the conditions for this - we must, ladies and gentlemen, and i ask you to understand this, identify what the content of a text must be that actually brings satisfactory solutions to the problem of discrimination against disabled people. i'm a very practical person. i'm extremely sensitive to this cause. i have been dealing with this since the beginning of my mandate as european commissioner, when i met the associations dealing with blindness, and also a few days ago in spain and brussels with their european federation. i met some people from the mek. i also - since i'm talking about concrete solutions, ms. auken, mr. becker - actively worked on the memorandum of understanding, which i personally signed several months ago, between publishers and the visually impaired, in september 2010. and this agreement provides for the establishment of structures, a network of intermediaries to enable the circulation, the distribution to visually impaired people of accessible works throughout the european union. i told you what i could do right away and i stuck to it. the first step was to work with publishers and non-profit associations to make this progress concrete and we are continuing to work on the most effective text of a possible binding treaty. today the compromise text that has been drawn up is far from the actual progress we need to make. it is not clear that it is of sufficient use, especially for the visually impaired. i therefore say to mrs harkin, mr paška, mr jarc and to each and every one of you that what i care about is that for real progress - not speeches, wishes or texts, as the commission sometimes does, which are purely technical or legal - for real concrete progress, i need to be sure of the quality of the content, and we have made constructive and clear suggestions to all our partners on this point. how can we go down the road you want of a binding treaty? i need a mandate from the council to do that. i need the college's approval first. i think i'll get it. and i need the council's agreement and i'm going to ask for that mandate to negotiate a binding treaty, subject to the commission's approval. but, mrs auken, you said that all the member states agree. that's not the information i have. today there are a number of states that, for other governmental reasons, are not yet on that line. and i need a lot of support. i am willing to ask the council for a mandate, but if i fail, if the council refuses, we will not have made any progress. so i want to find, in the next few weeks, sufficient agreement at member state level to pursue actively the path towards a treaty. i shall be meeting with members, one by one, with governments, and at a forthcoming council meeting i shall be asking for this mandate. but i want to make sure that i get it and i want to make sure that it actually changes the situation. that's the spirit i'm in. i say to you: a proposal that i will make to my colleagues in the european commission to get the agreement of the college to apply for this mandate; i am personally discussing this with my colleagues, with each of the governments that have been in the council to get this mandate and then we will move on. mr berlinguer, you know very well that i am not a conservative. i'm also telling mrs bilbao. i am encouraged by your resolution. i say this in particular to mrs mazzoni and i say it in a very particular way to your colleague, mr kósa, who has spoken very clearly in favour of this treaty. these are the steps i intend to take. as i am accustomed to speaking, i will endeavor to make these steps clear to you in the most unambiguous and frank manner, so that you may know the difficulties i am facing. but i will make progress on this matter in the context of respect for the charter of fundamental rights, the convention and the treaty. i shall put it into practice in the coming weeks in the spirit of what i have just told you.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis has reminded us of a reality: bank failures exist. the deposit guarantee is an essential instrument for protecting citizens from the consequences of a bank failure. it is also a preventive instrument and prevention always costs much less than repair because depositors know that in the worst case they will be entitled to compensation. this proposal has been on the table for a year and a half. i do not forget that parliament has supported us from the beginning and i would like to thank you personally, mr peter simon, and the fictitious rapporteurs, for your work and support on this proposal. i fully agree with the level of ambition you have just mentioned, mr simon, and with many of the concrete proposals in the report, and i understand that parliament has decided to put this on the agenda for the plenary. your report shows that the commission and parliament are pursuing the same objectives. first, an adequate level of pre-financing. promise a high compensation is one thing two years ago we raised the level of cover to 100,000 euros but still there must be money available. our system is based on the idea that the guarantee should be borne by the companies themselves. secondly, a rapid reduction in payment deadlines. since the end of 2010, depositors have been guaranteed compensation within 20 working days, or one month. it is a step forward, but it is not enough, as you yourself have said. how can you feed a family for a month without access to a checking account? we proposed seven days and we think that is a good figure, although it must be achieved gradually. it is technically possible, and some countries have already done so. thirdly, contributions related to risk. it is only natural that a bank with more risk should contribute more. it's a matter of justice, but it's also a matter of rationality. fourth, a good articulation with the resolution tools. there's more than one way to protect depositors from a bank default. the bank's resolution may provide for the maintenance of access to accounts, for example by transferring the accounts to another institution, which may be beneficial for depositors. there is a cost to this kind of operation, which is why our proposal authorized the use of guarantee funds also for early intervention or orderly resolution. you have understood this and have maintained and even extended this proposal. the guarantee of deposits and the orderly resolution of banks are complementary tools to ensure the continuity of access of depositors to their funds, prevent bank runs and preserve the stability of the whole system. of course, we all have our own sensitivities. i regret, for example, that the guarantee schemes can no longer borrow from their counterparts in other countries. the proposal was probably ahead of its time, we even thought we were moderate, whereas you had advocated a genuine 'pan-european' system. but i'm sure, mr. simon, that idea will find its way. i note, ladies and gentlemen, that after the efforts of the polish presidency, the danish presidency has not, until today, spared its efforts and i want to thank it for this in changing the positions of the council which, let us be quite frank, still do not have the ambition that you and i hope for. i am not going to go into the work done by parliament in the last few months either, but i remain convinced of the good will of the council on the one hand and of the danish presidency in particular, and of yours, which i know and i remain convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that we are extremely close to an agreement. of course, such an agreement, if it is to be possible, should take account of the red lines of the parties and in particular of the red lines which you yourself have indicated and which you have very precisely recalled in relation to the commission and parliament. if i understand the rapporteur correctly, certain points are essential: a significant amount of pre-financing for the guarantee funds, a credible timetable for reducing payment deadlines and finally the contribution which must be risk-based. mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i think that whatever you decide to do with the procedure, we must now concentrate on these key issues in order to reach an agreement as soon as possible in the crisis situation in which we find ourselves, in the face of the worries and anxieties, and sometimes even the anger, of many citizens. i think that the council - by coming closer to your position - parliament and the commission would do their job properly by bringing a quick solution to this deposit guarantee system which i really believe is in the public interest.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. - i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues for the opportunity they have given me today to address the house on behalf of the committee on legal affairs. the legal affairs committee has examined the proposal for a directive on deposit guarantee schemes, and our first task was to examine the legal basis for the adoption of this act. it was found to be in accordance with the contracts. the committee then adopted a total of 16 proposals for amendments to the directive, some of which were accepted by the committee responsible, some of which were not. the main problem, one of the main proposals of the legal affairs committee, was related to the payment deadline, and the legal affairs committee proposed that this deadline be longer, to be within four weeks. the reason for this is that we have consulted with various deposit guarantee schemes. we were so strongly assured that the five-day working period was virtually impossible to pay. i do not want to disagree with the rapporteur and the commissioner here, who say that people need to feed themselves in case a bank fails. i think that no one relies on the funds from their savings directly for their livelihood and it is much more important to me to ensure that the schemes can invest their funds comfortably and with those funds they can operate, because now they will have to keep them liquid almost constantly in order to be able to react in the short term. the other two proposals, which were about lending between schemes, i see that the committee responsible has completely repealed that part of the directive, so that our proposal has lost its meaning, even though we have put a lot of work into making it better. and also on delegated acts, as it was at the very beginning, we increased the time limit for objections from one to two months, but now the three plus three months approach is being adopted, which i support.
member of the commission. - mr president, naturally, following on from your rapporteur and his own speech, i listened very carefully to what was said. i thank mrs roithová and mr stoyanov, the rapporteurs for their committees, for welcoming the progress proposed in this commission text, improved by the commission and your rapporteur, to make the guarantee system more efficient and less costly, as mr simon has said, particularly for the most vulnerable people, who are now numerous. i thank mr balz for pointing out the logical link - i was going to say the synergy - which i myself proposed in the course of the debate with the draft resolution system which the commission is prepared to propose in the coming weeks. mr klinz, first of all, emphasized very strongly the importance of having a system - you said a european system - which is at least identical, so that the countries which are lagging behind can catch up with those which have already put in place this guarantee system. it must be a coherent system and i share your view, mr klinz, mr paška and mrs băsescu, that it contributes to the financial stability of the european union. the harmonization that mr klinz and mrs ţicău have just mentioned is one of the great achievements of this project, the day it is formalised and operational. i would point out to you, ladies and gentlemen, that this patient, tenacious, week by week construction is going in the same direction, that of a single market for financial services, as we have begun in the last fifty years to build a single market in all other areas. but i want to be the commissioner who, together with you, will have advanced and if possible completed the single market in financial services. this text helps. mr giegold has asked, as i have myself asked, for further action by the council to reach a compromise as quickly as possible, and i share your analysis, mr giegold, that, as i myself have said, as mr simon has, a more risky bank must pay more. that is clearly the logic of this text. just a word to mrs ford and mrs swinburne who have looked at this text with great attention. i think, frankly, mrs ford, mrs swinburne, that we have together struck a good balance between prevention and the cost of prevention. i would also point out that there is a period of progression in this text until the guarantee fund is fully complete and operational. and i would also point out that this text has a great advantage. it allows for the mixing and addition of ex ante prevention and ex post remediation. i would like to say to mrs ford and mrs swinburne that when there is not enough or sometimes no ex ante prevention, the result is that deposit guarantee schemes are in deficit. this is the case in a number of countries. i mean, this system seems to me to have reached a good balance. i also think that when we talk about all these subjects - you mentioned mr klinz, the crisis and the failure of this or that bank - i will not stop mentioning that what has broken growth and put many citizens in great difficulty is clearly the financial crisis and the behaviour of a number of banks. i would like to thank you for your support and simply say to peter simon that as the commissioner responsible for this matter i have confidence in him and in the coordinator. i trust you with a text which is a good compromise for the economy, for the depositors - especially the most vulnerable - to reach a solution quickly. i will continue to be available to facilitate an agreement between the council and parliament. ladies and gentlemen, in this moment, this is a citizen project too important to remain virtual. we must carry out this project, which is very important for the citizens' europe we want to build and for responding concretely to the concerns and worries of a number of citizens. that is why i thank you, mr simon, for the efforts you will continue to make in the hours, days and weeks ahead to ensure that we reach an agreement with the council. i'll be willing to participate in any case.
in writing. the financial crisis revealed serious shortcomings in the existing legal framework for the protection of deposits, and so my colleagues and i have been working hard on reforming the current european directive. we have reached a balanced text that provides better protection for citizens' savings and at the same time does not expose banks to excessive risk. our proposals concern the stability of deposit insurance funds, the timing of the payout of benefits and the consideration of different levels of risk. i would like to stress that the guarantee of funds up to eur 100000 is not a sufficient condition for ensuring reliable protection. we therefore proposed that schemes be financed ex ante and that a system be introduced to take account of the risks. this allows riskier banks to put a larger amount into the fund as a guarantee for their customers' savings. our key proposal concerns the deadlines for payment of benefits - we propose to reduce the current deadline of 20 working days to 7. unfortunately, the member states are not accepting our proposals at this stage. i would like to call on the danish presidency to do everything possible to motivate the countries and to show the necessary ambition to achieve a result. an outcome that is in the interest of all european citizens, an outcome that will improve the stability of the financial sector in the eu as a whole.
author. − mr president, i would like to extend once again our condolences to the families of those who died in the clashes in port said. we insist that a full and transparent investigation take place and all allegations of politically motivated action behind the tragedy be taken seriously. i would also like to express our solidarity and sympathy to all those who continue day by day their struggle for democracy and social justice in egypt. we know very well that the transition is not a fairy tale with a happy ending where evil is destroyed and all the characters start a long and happy life. any transition is a long process with, let us be frank, an open end. it may reach the goals of the revolution or it may end up in chaos or new tyranny. so far we have seen ups and downs, but the direction was maintained. worrying signs should not be overlooked. while praising the advances we should also be vocal on the shortcomings. ngos are the core of civil society in any country. egypt has no tradition in that and naturally foreign donors are interested in supporting civil society structures. this is a form of immediate practical support that can be expected and delivered to the country. however, control has been tightened to a degree for which no meaningful explanation can be given. legal control over foreign funding has tightened; the central bank is monitoring bank transfers to ngos; 10 organisations have been banned and dozens of activists will face trial. why? we have to react and we call for the criminal charges against ngos and political foundations to be dropped immediately. i hope that this resolution will be carefully read both in cairo and in brussels.
madam president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been some years now since we have been drawing the attention of the public, around march, with the report on equality between women and men in the european union. for 2012, the rapporteur is ms in't veld. this year, however, the discussion is even more intense, as it is being conducted in parallel with mrs pietikäinen's report on women's participation in political decision-making. i congratulate both our rapporteurs on the excellence and relevance of their work. so, what do we have to say this year? first, this year, as always, we are taking stock of the progress and the progress to be made. we are now emphasizing with renewed vigour that equality between men and women in the union is far from a reality. we can easily see that the principle of equal work for equal pay is still not respected by all member states. combating stereotypes and diversifying the choice of education for girls is a relevant issue. barriers to women's access to the labour market must be removed. violence against women requires the full support of the union if this real scourge is to be brought to an end. in times of economic crisis, it is essential that we ensure that women are protected from poverty and isolation. finally, promoting women in decision-making bodies, in boards, parliaments, political parties and governments, means giving ourselves a better chance of being effective, but also recognizing that thanks to women we can have more effective and adequate policies, businesses and social sectors. we have read your report with pleasure, commissioner. it is more than useful, it gives a new lease of life to gender equality. i invite you to publish it every year. and above all, we would like to see the good practices clearly identified in it promoted, because i do not believe in sanctions. they devalue women, they devalue our fight to encourage women to take up careers that will take them to the top and to end the gender discrimination that women face. i do not believe in the carrot and stick rule, i believe in the awareness that generates political will and the ownership of initiatives that aim to improve the status of women at all levels. so, yes, let's change the pace, let's give ourselves the means, especially since the texts exist. we need a strong and committed political will with the courage to implement them.
madam president, let me first congratulate both rapporteurs for their excellent work in presenting today a comprehensive view of the state of play concerning equality between men and women in the european union and clearly identifying the key issues to be addressed – and, i would say, more importantly, to take action upon. on behalf of the alde group i would like to stress the word ‘action’. we have held discussions in this house on gender equality, made calls and supporting declarations and initiatives, but as yet there have been no definitive and concrete actions. i am therefore turning to you, madam commissioner, to tell you that you have a majority in this house waiting for concrete proposals which would allow us to deliver on gender equality and the fundamental principles of the european union. we very much welcome the focus in this year’s report on equal economic independence, equality in decision making and the need to guarantee equal pay for equal work. these issues resonate even more loudly in these times of economic crisis, which particularly affect women and actually increase existing inequalities. can we still accept in 2012 that on average women have to work two more months per year to receive the same salary as men? as you said, commissioner, we have gained just one day since last year; at that rate, we will have to wait 60 years to achieve equality between men and women. none of us here can rationally explain to our citizens the persistence of the existing gender pay gap. if progress is not being made at national level it is the responsibility of the european union to act – notably with a legislative proposal – in order to guarantee equality for all its citizens: men and women. this is actually the logic of the subsidiarity principle, not the other way around. if member states are failing to guarantee fundamental rights for all, the issue has to be addressed and tackled at european level. the same principle should also apply to our combating of gender-based violence, which is also an issue closely linked to the economic independence – or rather, dependence – of women. as rapporteur on the directive on the protection of the victims of crime, of which women represent a vast majority, i hope they will automatically be able to address properly the specific needs of victims of gender-based violence. but let us be realistic: we will not be able to fight comprehensively violence against women with this piece of legislation only. that is why we need a comprehensive european strategy.
mr president, the question of litigation over succession is one of the most difficult questions in interpersonal relations governed by law, and it is usually one of the most difficult to resolve. it's no accident that the case i had to solve to complete my law degree on the civil law and science exam was exactly of this substance. it was a question of dividing up an inheritance, of course, on the scale of my member state, which simplified it somewhat, but it was this particular case in my life that gave me a first-hand idea of how complex this matter really is, i have a first-hand idea of the enormous work done by my colleague lechner, and i think that this last report to the european parliament for him is a magnificent crown, a medal that he will be able to wear for the rest of his life and that all the people in the european parliament will remember him for. but i would also like to note something else in connection with what i am talking about - in view of my own reports which i have received in the legal affairs committee and how much work mr lechner has done - namely: commissioner, it seems to me that the commission's legislative proposals are becoming a little less qualitative than we are used to. i know that you count on us as committed european politicians to do as good a job as mr lechner, but i would like to ask the commission to take it more seriously and to bring in better legislation.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank my colleague mr berlinguer for his excellent report. unfortunately, the recognition of higher education diplomas is an expensive and slow administrative procedure in many countries when it comes to recognising diplomas obtained in another eu country. if we want to increase the competitiveness of the european economy, reduce youth unemployment and reap the benefits of youth mobility, we need to overcome the protectionism imposed in some countries by deliberately limiting the recognition of diplomas acquired in other countries. i would like to call on the european commission to raise at least two issues at community, supranational level: the uniformity of educational degrees (at least bachelor's and master's degrees) and secondly legislation to facilitate the recognition of diplomas obtained in another country in the relevant bachelor's or master's degree as much as possible. without this happening at a supranational level, we will continue to face protectionism from national legislation.
mr president, president barroso has just said that there is no growth without stability and confidence, but that is a truism. he should also know that there is no stability and confidence without growth and a dynamic economy. the problem which we can now identify in the actions of the commission and the council is that the measures taken for tackling the economic problems are of a different order. they are biased. on one side we have fiscal measures that are entering into the legislation and that bring severe penalties as a consequence. on the other side – on the side of growth – we have words and nice declarations without budgetary support. the result is very clear. i had the chance to see it with my two socialist colleagues, robert goebbels and elisa ferreira in greece: a freefall of the greek economy and the inability to service the debt. these are the consequences of the european policy that mr barroso asks us to support. what is the solution? the solution is a structural change, a partial mutualisation of debt among powerful european budgets, based on own resources and project bonds.
in writing. the european council's decision to grant serbia eu candidate status is a fitting recognition of the reforms implemented in the country. the authorities in serbia have steadfastly maintained its european course and have fulfilled its commitments and promises despite the difficult political and economic situation. the decision confirms the eu's focus on continuing the enlargement process, despite economic problems, the debt crisis and pressures on the single currency. in the context of the progress of most countries in the region on their path to the eu, the move towards serbia demonstrates the eu's enduring commitment to the western balkans, which was pledged in 2003. the candidate status also represents a timely and unequivocal support for pro-european political forces in serbia, especially in view of the upcoming parliamentary elections in early may and the real danger of the rise of nationalist and populist parties that could again challenge the country's european perspective. the next and perhaps most important test for serbia will be the start of membership negotiations, which will make its european integration virtually irreversible. the road is open, but much work remains to be done to implement the agreements reached, continue reforms and deepen regional cooperation. the serbian people can count on the support of the european parliament.
madam chairman, i have a very manly friend in bulgaria who says that his biggest dream is to have a woman in his next life. this same friend of mine says something very important: "the strength of women is in their weakness". i am convinced of the truth of what my friend says, i am convinced that the suffragette movement nearly two centuries ago has achieved far less than the wives of the lords at home have done with their weakness before their lords. i therefore cannot accept the aggressive approach and the aggressive tone of mrs in 't veld's report, which i believe does a disservice to women. even mrs in 't veld's own group had introduced amendments to that report to soften its tone. and i would add that we have witnessed today a tremendous hypocrisy in this respect, because by removing the immunity of mrs morvai, this parliament has punished her for defending women against domestic violence. next we're going to pass a resolution against domestic violence. this hypocrisy is disgusting and i'm against it.
madam president, colleagues, i personally have benefited from a quota system, because my law school - the most prestigious law school in bulgaria - accepted boys and girls equally, and if that had not been the case, i probably would not have been able to enter and complete my law degree. but was it fair that i and a few other boys took the places of girls who were better prepared than us and did better on the exams? you know very well the answer to that question is no. that's why i'm against quotas. i recently had my first child - a beautiful little girl. like any parent, i want her to outgrow me, and i want her to grow up to be able to make her way in her profession and her career through her abilities, not through the submissions in the form of quotas, as, unfortunately, her father did.
in writing. − i supported this ep resolution because gender equality is a fundamental principle of the european union and because i share the need to strengthen the role of women in the political decision-making process. although women have proven their qualities in management, they are currently underrepresented in political bodies and institutions at european and national level. measures have already been taken in this respect in some member states, but overall imbalances are large. i am in favour of electoral systems that take account of gender equality and i believe that action in this direction should be continued. i support the position that concrete measures are needed to achieve equality in elected positions in national parliaments and the european parliament, as women currently represent less than a quarter of the eu's seats in these bodies. the same problem exists with regard to gender equality in the executive of the member states and the european commission. i share the view that the european and national institutions must make efforts to achieve gender balance at all levels, both through legislative measures and by sending clear messages to combat discrimination.
in writing. the site targeting central and eastern europeans crosses the boundaries of free speech, violates civil rights and creates an environment of xenophobia. i can't agree that this is an internal matter of a party. promoting complaints against workers from other countries puts them at a disadvantage and points us, as many colleagues have said, to article 18 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which prohibits any discrimination on grounds of nationality. i hope the dutch government will take action to protect the name of its country, which is one of the founding countries of the eu and which until recently was known for the free-thinking and tolerant nature of its people. these are values that should not be sacrificed, not because of the problems in the economy, not because of the rise in unemployment or euroscepticism, and in no case because of the desire for popularity of one party. otherwise, there remains a serious doubt about the ability of the dutch government to take an objective position both with regard to the anti-bulgarian website and to the membership of bulgaria and romania in schengen.
in writing. today, 5 years after the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european family, discrimination and racism against the citizens of these countries are still allowed. an example of this is the website for complaints from eastern europeans set up by the dutch pvv party. this act is harmful to the future of europe because it breeds racism and xenophobia and must be condemned immediately. european citizenship is a symbol of freedom of movement within the member states and gives the right of establishment within the union. therefore, the claim that bulgarians are taking the jobs of dutch citizens is baseless and contrary to the fundamental european values. i would like to stress that at the same time the dutch labour market is completely closed to the citizens of these two countries. in november 2011, the commission published a report highlighting the positive impact of the mobility of bulgarian and romanian workers on the european economy. this is further proof that the creators of the site are not dealing with real facts, but rely on populist methods. i call on the european commission and the dutch prime minister to take swift and effective action to condemn the website in question and to take the necessary legal steps to close it down. eastern europe expects a clear signal that such discriminatory practices will not be tolerated in the european community.
a question asked by raising a blue card. mrs cornelissen, i am speaking to you as a spokesperson for the green group, as the green group is known for its rather serious position on the protection of human rights and the rights of minorities. i would like to ask you if you are aware that the rights of people with bulgarian identity continue to be violated in macedonia and what is the position of the green group on this issue?
mr president, mr commissioner, the citizens of macedonia of all ethnic groups and religions must have a european future as soon as possible and i sincerely hope so. unfortunately, it seems that the macedonian authorities are not working in this direction and have not taken the european parliament's recommendations seriously so far. the continued implantation of mono-ethnic historical myths and legends, the promotion of pseudo-scientific developments and the funding of propaganda films such as "the third half" ultimately deepen both the country's internal conflict and its neighbors. what is particularly worrying is what has been happening recently - the rise of inter-ethnic tensions. anyone who thinks the dispute with greece is the only problem this country has is just a political blind man who needs to see the light. this dispute is just the tip of the iceberg. unfortunately, in macedonia it is still problematic to openly state your bulgarian ethnic identity or origin. i hope macedonia will break with the ethno-ideological legacy of south communism and work to build bridges with its neighbors. such bridges are the commemoration of common historical events, as well as the cessation of hate speech, especially in the media and textbooks. we must not educate the young people - the young generations of the balkans, who should live in peace and prosperity, in hatred. i very much hope and wish for a future such policy on the part of macedonia, so that the citizens of macedonia have a european future.
mr president, yesterday in this room we debated a website that was published in the netherlands by a party of our colleagues and we all spoke very negatively, of course, we condemned hate speech. however, i can tell you that compared to the targeted campaign that the macedonian government is developing hate campaign, the site we debated yesterday is a child's joke to be honest. poor macedonia, which was last year the world's number one unemployed country, instead of investing in creating new jobs, has spent 2 million euros to make a hate film whose title i won't even mention, so as not to give it unnecessary publicity. these are provocations, colleagues, as i am sure you know very well, from the character of those who have ignited five wars in the last 100 years in the balkans, one of which was a world war. it can't go on like this and you have to... (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, it has been a very useful debate indeed and many important aspects have been mentioned. if i come back to the honourable member belder’s question, let me say the following: while continuing to denounce and reject all forms of extremism, the commission is not commenting on specific religious orientation in bosnia and herzegovina. you will not find that in our last progress report. there are many statements from religious leaders, from all sides on an almost daily basis and we urge restraint and a spirit of cooperation and reconciliation from all responsible religious and political leaders. let me also highlight some other important issues which have been voiced in your debate. as also raised in your draft resolution, it is important that the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina carry out necessary technical preparations for a population census as a matter of urgency. the commission is ready to give technical support for this and to be actively involved in the census so essential for the socio-economic development. your resolution also highlights the urgent need for all levels of authorities to strengthen coordination in all sectors relevant for the transposition of european union legislation and for financial cooperation. it is evident that in this area bosnia and herzegovina need to undertake substantial efforts. the debate overall has shown that a large majority of colleagues here share our views. we are united in our joint commitment to bosnia and herzegovina’s european future and we are clear in what we expect from the country in the next months in order to move forward and make up for lost time. it will not be easy with the election campaign starting very soon for the local elections in october. there will be many challenges ahead and we need to make sure that the politicians in bosnia and herzegovina are ready to take up a greater part of the ownership of the process. it is time for bosnia and herzegovina to catch up with its neighbours. what we need more than anything else for this is a positive spirit towards compromise. all of us should thus encourage politicians in the country to make compromises in the european spirit, to leave the past behind and to move the country towards its european future.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner füle, i would like to thank you for your report. the eu has given the people of bosnia and herzegovina hope for a future in the family. it is therefore welcome that a new government has now been formed and that the political leaders are taking joint responsibility for the development of the country. there are signs that the new government will take a number of initiatives, both economic and political, to deliver progress for its citizens and to promote integration with the eu. progress has thus already been made on two of the three conditions for the entry into force of a stability and association agreement, namely, first, the adoption of the state aid act and, second, the adoption of the law on the census. the question of bringing the country's constitution into line with the european convention on human rights is outstanding. there can be no doubt that credible action in this respect is essential if the country is to meet its obligations. the next milestone is the entry into force of a stability and association agreement. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has also been active in the fight against organised crime. an important signal to send is that the eu will continue to assist bosnia-herzegovina, including through the eu special representative peter sørensen, who has done a fine and appreciated job. the primary responsibility for progress lies, of course, with the leaders of bosnia and herzegovina. it is up to them to show leadership and it is up to them to take the necessary decisions and continue on the reform path so that bosnia-herzegovina can also make progress on the eu path. the road to the eu is a long, hard one. it is and should be based on hard work and personal merit. the accession of croatia to the eu and the recent candidate status of serbia show that eu accession is on the table for those countries willing to reform and take the decisive steps. i hope that this will be a source of motivation for bosnia-herzegovina and wish both parliament, the commission and the council goodwill in the important tasks that lie ahead of us in this respect.
along with other western balkan countries, bosnia is currently facing the double challenge of integrating the eu while consolidating the constructions of its nation. if political, economic, social and structural improvements are unquestionable; this duplication remains one of the main differences with the 2004 enlargement and could represent an extra burden to achieve the integration. nevertheless, i believe the eu could make this task easier for the future member states. in fact, 20 years ago europe intended to defend the values of multiculturalism in the balkan region. nowadays it seems that some of the eu's main leaders have stopped believing in these values. if the principle of enlargement itself is not at stake, how can multiculturalism be promoted in the balkan region when multiculturalism is discarded by the founding countries of the eu? it is not easy to expand when there are doubts at the core, yet it is desirable and urgent for us to set a good example and structure for these future member states.
mr president, for the first time in five years as a member of the european parliament, i voted against the report on the accession of macedonia to the european union. why would you do that? i used to vote for it because, despite all the problems, i thought that this way, some kind of stimulus could be given to the country to reform. the five years that i have been an mep is about half the time it takes a country to join the union in the normal course of events. it's been a long time, but in macedonia people with bulgarian identity continue to be persecuted, the hate speech continues in the media, in textbooks, in films, in all kinds of ways sponsored by the state. i find such actions unacceptable and i can no longer continue to support a country that i believe does not meet the political criteria, taking such actions against a neighboring country and even against its own citizens, especially since we have also seen that freedom of speech has suffered, which is worsening rather than improving.
a generation ago, the western world's principled stand for democracy, freedom and human rights helped bring about the end of the soviet union and the fall of the berlin wall. two decades later, the challenge for europe is to prove that freedom and democracy remain its highest values and that no political situation is making them secondary. european leaders owe this proof first of all to their own voters, some of whom have recently begun to ask themselves, more secretly or more openly, whether the time of the dividing lines did not provide them with more comfort. european leaders owe this proof to the reformers of the arab spring, who embraced the ideas of change, believed in democratic ideals, not because of geographical or historical belonging to europe. they owe it today more than ever to the thousands of democratically minded citizens of russia who came out to protest against the gross and massive human rights violations, against the rigged elections and the repression of independent media. and most of all, with demands for strong anti-corruption laws. i am convinced that what will make europe a real factor in the democratic process in russia is not the comfortable posture of a remote observer who is limited to common phrases and a bunch of uninvolved recommendations. as russia's largest trading partner and, above all, as a centre of attraction for its assets, europe has sufficient mechanisms to guarantee both the respect for fundamental democratic rights and the effective fight against corruption - principles to put at the heart of its cooperation with russia.
mr president, after months of peaceful social protest, on 16 december last year oil industry workers were shot and killed by the police in the city of zhanaozen in western kazakhstan. their legitimate demands for social justice and better lives were met with bullets. not less worrying is the fact that, right after the parliamentary elections in january won by the ruling nur otan party with 80% of the votes, opposition leaders and journalists were detained. it seems that every effort was made to silence critical voices. i am encouraged that some limited steps have already been taken in response to criticism: for example, the release of natalia sokolova last week, and of other activists who should not have been detained and convicted in the first place. i recognise the important role of kazakhstan as a partner of the eu in central asia, and for this reason i insist that the country should show more progress in reforming its political system and respecting human rights and media freedom. i welcome the readiness of the authorities to continue the dialogue with the eu on these issues, but we also have to be very clear. we expect much more from a country which made strong commitments before it took the chairmanship of the osce, did not implement many of those commitments during its term and forgot about them afterwards. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i would ask you also to try to give other members the possibility of participating because obviously mr ransdorf is here to defend the kazakh authorities. i think we need a bit more of a balanced presentation here. secondly, there is an investigation going on. i would not like to prejudge the results of that investigation. i am informed of many statements by the authorities and prosecutors, but what is clear is that peaceful protests were met with excessive force. that was recognised by the authorities. i believe that, once we have the results of the investigation, we can consider this matter thoroughly.
mr president, kazakhstan is a key partner of the european union in the central asian region with which negotiations for a new enhanced cooperation agreement started in june 2011. clearly, the country has a long way to go to reach european standards for political pluralism, freedom of speech and assembly, but kazakhstan is still making efforts to establish itself as a secular, legal and modern state. this is a long-term process which the european union must support. i therefore call on the commission to develop a more strategic approach to the human rights dialogue in kazakhstan, to support more actively the representatives of civil society in the region, to establish a functional mechanism to coordinate the european union's efforts in the framework of the structured human rights dialogue and the bilateral dialogue between the member states and the central asian republics, thus avoiding political contradictions within the union. i am convinced that this will also have a much better impact on kazakhstan's democratic development than leaving it in the sphere of influence of moscow or beijing.
mr president, i agree with most colleagues who said that what happened in zhanaozen, and the subsequent actions of the government, are truly alarming. we expect the authorities to conclude the ongoing investigation in an accurate and transparent manner. transparency means including independent experts as well. the democratisation of kazakhstan is certainly a slow process. this is only the beginning for kazakhstan, on the way to further democratisation and approximation with european values and standards, and equally in the field of human rights and the development of democratic standards. the country needs to invest considerable efforts and political will in this direction. i hope that kazakhstan will justify the expectations of its european partners, will heed the criticisms levelled today and will try to take the necessary action. it has recently been invited to join the venice commission and is about to receive the status of ‘partner for democracy’ in the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. the citizens of kazakhstan deserve better human rights standards, the rule of law and a democratic future – in other words a much better future.
mr. president, the reason for today's discussion is the further extension of sanctions against the lukashenko regime and the fact that it has triggered a de facto diplomatic war between belarus and the european union. i believe that as noted in the draft resolution, the european union has responded correctly - it has not allowed itself to be divided into good and bad eu member states, and it has responded adequately, by sending a clear signal to lukashenko that the eu member states and the eu as a whole cannot be blackmailed in this way. but really, the big question that we can't find an answer to is: what more can we do as the european parliament, as the european union, as a commitment of individual member states, to change the situation in this country? how can we support civil society, what more can we do to get the political prisoners released and to have no more political prisoners in belarus? how can we achieve the effect of a gradual change towards democratization in belarus, so that the next elections will be at least a little fairer and a little more democratic than those we saw in the previous parliamentary elections? i think that we are not showing enough imagination here and that the methods we are using are again either to deepen sanctions or, as the new element in this resolution, to mention the possibility of imposing targeted economic sanctions. here, of course, we must note carefully that they should not concern the citizens of belarus. we're also talking about the world cup of hockey and its possible relocation from belarus. i think that sounds a little desperate on our part. if we have to, let's try, but i don't think that's going to do the trick. but it's important that we don't close the doors, that we use all the opportunities. we will do this within the framework of the euronest parliamentary assembly. we're still working on it, hopefully we'll get some results. we all need to think together about how to change that.
in writing. mr president, there is no doubt that we need a clearer vision for our economy in a few decades' time, following the imposed scenario of decarbonising industrial activity and energy. but this must be done in the most cost-effective way, preserving and increasing the competitiveness of our economy, which is not clearly seen in the roadmap to 2050 and in the ep report. in fact, we've only focused on carbon dioxide, and the other greenhouse gases have not been addressed to the extent that they should be, even though they don't cost as much to the economy and to people to limit. i share the serious concern that the imposition of new, even higher targets both by 2020 and beyond, for reducing emissions or changing the carbon trading scheme, introduces legislative uncertainty and sends a bad signal to business investment planning. there is no need for binding targets for emissions after 15-20-30 years, which will undergo significant changes in that period, as life teaches us. there is a need for benchmarks indicators to indicate the direction and to monitor the effectiveness of the measures taken. achieving full decarbonisation of energy will not be possible with renewable energy alone. all low-carbon energy technologies, including nuclear and clean coal technologies, will have their contribution, especially outside the eu.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank my colleagues mario mauro of the group of the european people's party, john attard-montalto of the group of the socialists and democrats, hannu takkula of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats and, of course, nirj deva of the group of the european conservatives and reformists, who initiated and tabled with me the declaration entitled 'chess in schools'. it showed that for good ideas, there are no political borders or prejudices. i would also like to thank president buzek, who supported the initiative and gave it his patronage. let me thank the administration of parliament and, of course, our staff for their impeccable work, as well as all those who signed the declaration. among the people i have yet to thank are jacek włosowicz, piotr borys and milan zver. it's a good thing; no, it's even better, it's something good for our children, for our future. in the gallery here and now is the president of the european chess union, silvio danailov. finally, i would like to wish you a pleasant weekend after the vote. (applause from the left)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, yesterday we had an extensive debate in the european parliament with a very clear message on our side. there is a joint draft motion for a resolution which is also very clear, and parliament is united behind the message we want to send to the belarusian authorities, to belarusian society and also to european citizens. however, i would like to ask that we postpone the vote on this resolution to the mini-plenary in brussels next time, for two main reasons. firstly, to give the authorities time to reflect on and react to the current situation in which they find themselves, and secondly to be able to amend this resolution with the developments that we expect in the coming days.
in writing. - mr president, i support the resolution on the presidential elections in russia. despite the many irregularities in the electoral process, we must admit that the russians would have elected putin president under the country's current law, whether in the first or second round. the next six years are about working with this president's russia, continuing to negotiate a new partnership, deepening mutually beneficial economic relations, making progress in consensus on values and protecting human rights. the burdensome and highly restrictive procedure for registering smaller parties, especially opposition parties, to participate in elections is of particular concern. in this area, the eu must be very insistent, using all the levers to achieve a streamlining of procedures and the admission of more parties to public and political life. the strong and unprecedented wave of protests following the december parliamentary and march presidential elections in russia is evidence of an awakening, of a change in russian society. although we are witnessing today the hostile rhetoric of the newly elected president towards the opposition movements and protests, it will not be possible for the strong central government to not take into account this new russian reality. let us contribute carefully and uncompromisingly to the removal of policies of restriction and repression in russia's public and political life.
mr president, the report we are discussing today has many virtues, because its author, mr kacin, is a great expert on the western balkans and the situation in serbia. the report also contains the wonderful news of the new status of the serbian state. this status is well-deserved, as serbian society has made and continues to make great efforts to reform. it will not be surprising if today we often focus on the dialogue between belgrade and pristina. this will be a prism through which we will assess serbian policy for a long time - whether it is rational and useful. another important lens for domestic policy is minority policy. the rapporteur's idea of a change in paragraph 2 is extremely important. now we will have a chance to fight for the rights of all minorities, as part of european standards, not as part of the former yugoslav system. it would be logical to expect rapid progress in this area. is it so difficult, for example, in bulgarian churches to pray to god in bulgarian? should the serbian naming system be imposed through administrative pressure on newborn bulgarian children? is it acceptable to prevent the bulgarians in bosilegrad and pirotsk from celebrating their holidays? the rapid change of old stereotypes has no alternative. it is imperative and it will be very important for the progress of serbia.
mr. president, i would like to the chairman, mr. the commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by congratulating the people of serbia on gaining the status of candidate country to the last european council. the decision is a fitting tribute to the reforms implemented in the country. the authorities in serbia have steadfastly maintained its european course and have fulfilled their commitments and promises, despite the difficult political and economic situation. this is reflected in the european parliament's report. the european union is continuing its work on the enlargement process, despite economic problems, the debt crisis and pressure on the single currency. in the context of the progress of most countries in the region on their way to the european union, the move towards serbia demonstrates the union's enduring commitment to the western balkans, which was made in 2003. serbia needs timely and unambiguous support for pro-european political forces in view of the upcoming parliamentary elections in early may. i think the european parliament's report is such a support. the next and perhaps most important test for the country will be the start of membership negotiations, which will make its european integration virtually irreversible. the european parliament will work towards this.
mr president, europe, and especially south-eastern europe, needs a democratic serbia and the european union must work towards a political environment that supports the process of democratic reforms in serbia so that the country can finally break with communism, post-communism and especially the nationalism inherited from the former yugoslavia. such support for the democratic process is the granting of candidate country status to serbia. as always, the success depends mostly on the will of the country itself. serbia has to make difficult choices on the road to its european future and i believe that with its current policy the country is moving in the right direction. issues such as the rights of all citizens, regardless of their ethnic origin, and overcoming problems with neighbours are also part of the process of moving closer to the european union. i would like to draw particular attention to the disadvantage of an often forgotten minority in the economically underdeveloped part of serbia - the bulgarian minority. this region needs more investment and a perspective for young people to stay there, as well as ensuring education in mother tongue schools and the availability of bulgarian textbooks. finally, i would once again urge my colleagues in serbia, the serbian assembly and the government not to close their eyes to the past but to follow the example of all the countries east of berlin and to declassify the archives of the communist secret services from the time of the former yugoslavia, in the name of transparency and reconciliation. the shadows of the past cannot lead us to a democratic european future.
in writing. – on 1 march 2012, the eu countries decided to give serbia the status of official candidate for eu membership. i welcome this decision as i welcome the economic, social and political efforts made by serbia under the leadership of president boris tadić, who has proved to have a strong pro-european influence on his country. the upcoming elections on 6 may will hopefully give place to a serbian parliament which will keep on following the country’s current line towards eu integration. relations with pristina remain a sensitive issue in the region but the dialogue is progressing considering the recentness of kosovo’s independence. moreover, it is important to remember that, to this day, five eu countries have still not recognised the state of kosovo for fear of independence willingness in their own country. we should keep in mind that the question of kosovo’s status concerns the whole eu and not only serbia. finally, i would like to congratulate the romanian government, which has come to a compromise with the serbian state on the matter of bulgarian and romanian minorities’ rights in serbia. compromises will indeed be necessary; serbia is the largest ex-yugoslav republic and it is undeniable that the future of the western balkans lies in the eu.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i too would like to congratulate mrs ria oomen-ruijten on the achievements of the report, which this year has added new elements which are quite encouraging. it is very important to emphasise that turkey is the only candidate country with such a strict visa regime. i therefore welcome the constructive approach of the rapporteur, who calls on the council to give the commission a mandate to start a visa dialogue and to set out a roadmap for visa liberalisation once the readmission agreement is signed by turkey. this will not only strengthen economic and trade relations between the european union and turkey, but is also a fundamental prerequisite for bringing citizens closer together. i welcome and call on the commission to consider measures leading to the opening of chapter 24 on justice and home affairs and chapter 23 on the judiciary and fundamental rights. i think that if we really want the european perspective to continue to be a catalyst for political reforms in turkey and to be a factor in discussing issues such as freedom of speech and the media, then the member states that are still opposed to this opening up must rethink their position. i would also like to emphasise the strengthening of the political dialogue between the european union and turkey and turkey's role as a source of inspiration for the democratization of the arab states. i regret, however, that the report has not yet reached a balanced approach to cyprus. i am absolutely convinced that we should not expect unilateral concessions from turkey, but that the european union countries, and in particular the republic of cyprus, should also take responsibility and implement the council conclusions of 26 april 2004 to end the economic isolation of the turkish cypriots. i think that's key to reaching a compromise. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. i think that the answer to your question, mr belder, is contained in the paragraphs of mrs ruijten's draft report and in the commission's statements. turkey's role as an inspiration for democratic change in north africa is undeniable, and you'll agree that this model of a secular democratic state inspires more than one or two countries in the region. i think that this role should be supported and encouraged by the european union and turkey should continue to serve as that intermediary between the european union and these countries for imposing a democratic model on them. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. mr tannock, i agree that in fulfilling their commitments, both turkey and the european union are failing to deliver what they have really committed to. but my criticism is that the draft report accuses only turkey of not fulfilling its commitments. but once again, this report does not allow any criticism, rather self-criticism, to be levelled at the european union's failure to fulfil the commitments publicly made in the 2004 conclusions to end the economic isolation of the turkish cypriots following the referendum on the conflict settlement plan, the so-called 'kofi annan' plan, that took place in the same year. that's what i mean.
a question asked by raising a blue card. mr. kazak, i would like to ask you if you would like to declare a conflict of interest when speaking on this report, given that both you and your brother have completed the sorbonne at the expense of the turkish government?
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. dear colleagues, mr. stoyanov, this is slander for the second time you've said it. i did not graduate in france at the expense of the turkish government, but i was a scholarship holder of the french government - for the information of everyone here - and i have no relation to what you raise as slander.
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. dear mr mavronikolas, i can only mention the fact that the number of turkish troops on the island of cyprus has been reduced considerably since 1974. at the same time, you know that hardly any progress has been made on any of the commitments made by the european union - both on the green line and on the lifting of restrictions on turkish cypriots. so i think that here we really need both sides, i emphasize both sides, to continue their efforts with good will, with a desire to achieve a lasting solution. this confrontation must stop.
mr president, i have spoken many times in this chamber about turkey and the problems that are connected with it. i see your colleagues are trying to count all the violations. but they are so many that they simply cannot be numbered in any way. turkey is committing so many violations of the basic principles of democracy, of human rights, that last week my colleague josé bové, who is very much respected by all of us in the green group, together with three other colleagues, sent me a letter asking me to sign a letter to the secretary general of the council of europe, requesting the suspension of turkey's membership of the council of europe. and we, given that there is such an initiative from this parliament, what are we sitting around discussing about its membership of the european union? the council of europe is a much more liberal institution than the union. and finally, i would like to address the citizens of europe and ask them: citizens of europe, do you agree that in the european union there is a country that has committed several genocides, which not only does not regret it, but is proud of it?
a question asked by raising a blue card. mr. chairman, i have a question for mr. mavronikolas. what has the republic of cyprus been contributing to the search for a lasting solution to the cyprus problem in recent years? can you name any specific initiatives that would lead to such a resolution? why are you opposed to the commission's proposal for direct trade links with northern cyprus?
mr. president, rigged elections, minister of the interior - head of the pre-election staff, head of the central election commission appointed by the ruling party, bought votes, media comfort for the government, communist - police chief and general - head of state, 80th place for freedom of speech from reporters without borders and first place for corruption. this is not a third world country. it's a member state of the european union. this is bulgaria. i think that if the new antimafia commission is not just a decorative structure, its first task should be the arrest of the prime minister's accomplices, including the chairman of the cec - medarova, guilty of falsifying the elections, whose property is more than that of bill gates. bankers like tzvetan vassilev, who fund media empires that are used as punitive brigades, criminal concessionaires like "dandy precious", the new oligarchs with whom the prime minister plays cards, football and does his dirty work, and monopolists - people ready for prison who are easily manipulated. but the first on that list is general borisov.
rapporteur. − mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr hoyer on his new post and say that i hope he continues the excellent cooperation between the eib and the european parliament. the european union is going through the most difficult period in its history. yesterday the ecb again expressed its disappointment at the low growth levels and the lower than expected business crediting. at the same time unemployment rates are greatly increasing in most of our member states. in addition to these factors, europe also faces important external challenges, such as climate change, energy issues and democratic changes in neighbouring countries. that is why the eu needs this strong institution and i welcome the european investment bank’s strong commitment to taking a leading role in reviving the european economy. in the 2010 annual report i emphasised several important issues that addressed these challenges. the first critical point for me is support for small and medium-sized enterprises. i am convinced that a well-functioning real economy, and smes in particular, should be the engine that will boost the eu economic recovery. the eib group ensures significant support for smes across europe through its different instruments. nevertheless, there are still areas that could be improved. first, enhanced transparency in the way that the eib selects financial intermediaries and allocates global loans. a lot has been done in recent years but the system of providing this type of financial assistance still needs to be improved. we need clear performance indicators and targets as well as better supervision of financial intermediaries in order to assess the effectiveness of these programmes. it is clear that the final results cannot be properly assessed without adequate and explicit targets. i hope that president hoyer will address these issues with even better responsiveness than the eib has demonstrated so far. the second important point concerns external policy. even though we recently increased the financial envelope for external affairs, from the budgetary control standpoint there are still some concerns. there is insufficient information about the results, the impact and the achievements of this policy. the information on the quality of the sub-project’s finances, and consequently the final beneficiaries’ performance, does not provide sufficient assurance that the desired objectives are being achieved. i believe that these points are essential. the european guarantee to the eib operations outside the eu represents a potential liability for the eu budget and we need to see efficient monitoring tools that show the real value-added of the finance project. last but not least, i want to stress my concerns regarding the issues related to internal control mechanisms. i am concerned about the increase of the overall level of credit risk in the bank’s loan portfolio. it is clear that this is a result of growing pressures on the creditworthiness of existing counterparties and the higher risk embedded in new operations. the capital adequacy ratio decreases more and more each year. i wonder how the risk management philosophy of the eib is addressing these challenges. when targeting beneficiaries it is important to consider seriously their creditworthiness and to actually think of instruments that would encourage and help countries with good financial discipline. we need to give good students a boost as well, and i expect the eib to take this recommendation on board. i would like to emphasise the fact that the aaa credit rating of the bank represents the cornerstone of its activity and is essential for its operations. in this respect the eib should take all necessary steps to preserve this rating. i would again like to thank president hoyer for his cooperation, as well as for the excellent communication we have had with the brussels representation of the eib.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, let me deal with two issues which are of paramount importance for the work of the eib and for our joint work to enhance sustainable growth and employment through investment. the first one relates to recent initiatives to bolster the eib’s capital, a matter that was raised by many members, and the second – a related issue in fact – is project bonds, which was also raised by several members. you may recall that it was decided at the january european council to strengthen eib support for smes and infrastructure. the council, the commission and the eib were invited to consider possible options to enhance eib action to support growth and to make appropriate recommendations, including possibilities for the eu budget to leverage eib group financing capacity, and to implement the relevant measures by june 2012. the commission fully supports this objective and this work and we are currently exploring possibities to do so. in this regard, mrs gräßle raised the point that the structural funds are not an appropriate method for this. i would like to provide you with the commission’s position on this, which has been, as always, collegially prepared. the structural funds are earmarked for individual member states while the eib’s tier 1 capital must support the bank’s entire operations, hence this tier 1 capital cannot be allocated to specific member states or sectors. member states would thus have to agree unanimously to give up their national structural funds allocations for general use by the eib. this is not feasible really, given the obstacles to using structural funds for these purposes to increase the eib’s capital. the commission is currently exploring alternative options. to achieve this objective we are open to any convincing option which increases the eib’s capital base with a significant and lasting leveraging effect and which has a solid financial prudential foundation. my second point: i informed you that the council had reached an agreement yesterday on the commission proposal for the project bonds’ pilot phase. this will support infrastructure projects by bringing new investors to the sector, which is a very important signal in the context of enhancing growth. now this agreement in the council is the first major milestone towards adoption of the proposal, the other being, of course, the agreement of this parliament. one of you said that the commission has a duty to put forward a proposal on the pilot phase. i want to throw the ball back to parliament. parliament will, i trust, treat this file as a matter of the highest priority and we hope negotiations will start in april in time for its entry into force in june; we do not want to waste any more time but to get action moving in this very important field. i can tell you that, in the meantime, the commission is preparing all the subsequent steps required for the implementation of project bonds so that this can take place immediately once the decision has been taken. at the same time the eib is intensifying its work on identifying suitable projects for this exercise. in other words, and in conclusion, all the stars are now aligned for a speedy implementation ensuring urgent support for europe’s economy, its growth and job creation through investment in infrastructure.
president of the european investment bank. − mr president, honourable members, let me first of all thank you very much for this very warm welcome to the european parliament for a long-time parliamentarian who after 25 years gave up his parliamentary seat just a couple of weeks ago. it is good to be back and to be in a debate. i welcome and thank you for so many interesting questions and suggestions in width and in depth. unfortunately i will not be able to cover all this in the remaining four minutes but let me assure you that i will be available to parliament and its committees whenever you consider it useful. i believe there is a hidden treasure in luxembourg. you here are all experts. you are all the european investment bank. if i go to the politicians on the budget committees or the economic committees of the parliaments of the member states, i find limited knowledge about the eib. nobody knows what a valuable instrument this is for the european institutions. this is an institution which, by its lending volume, is far bigger than the world bank. we must make this known among our citizens in the european union because this is something we can bring into place when it goes in favour of job creation in europe, change in the environmental situation in europe, climate action, and when it comes to boosting innovation, growth and employment. we should develop this institution. here i consider this parliament to be one of the best allies of the european investment bank and this is why i do not shy away from questions of transparency, compliance and auditing. i just went through my first experiences as president of the bank in the field of auditing and compliance and i must say that i am proud of the procedures that have been adopted and improved over the last couple of years. there is always room for improvement. i am ready to talk about this with this parliament. we have seen that the question of transparency plays such an important role for the european parliament. i welcome this and this is a promise i can give you. what i would like to stress is the excellent cooperation we have with the commission and i thank in particular commissioner rehn, but his colleagues as well, for this cooperation. i do not agree with the suggestion that might lie between the lines of what mrs gräßle said. she said, do not draw funds from the european commission, from the union, over to the bank. no, we have to do this together. we have to use the financing instruments of the bank in order to reach the goals and the objectives of the commission and the union in general. this is the way we cooperate and this cooperation works very well. in this context, also in view of the new instruments we are developing, it is very important to bring in the expertise of the bank at a very early stage. what impressed me the most when i arrived at the bank was the fact that i found not only an incredible wealth of financial and banking expertise, i found also an incredible wealth of engineering capacities, of science and technology experts, and things like that. this is so important in coming to a really sound assessment of projects and proposals and we should, in the best sense of the word, bank on that. i think the commission is doing that again and again, because our expertise is needed again and again. the activities of the bank have clearly been expanded from purely lending to also blending with the resources of the commission and parliament and the european institutions, and advising because the expertise that our bank incorporates can be made available to the member states, to our partners in business. business: this is the point. if i welcomed the pilot phase for the project bonds so warmly, which is obviously clear now, then this is also due to the fact that this is a very valuable instrument with which to get experience in raising private money. for the huge infrastructure challenges to be met over the next couple of years we need to be able to attract more private money and this is how the european investment bank can make a contribution. a lot of things have been said about smes. if i look at the strengths of the economies of some of our member states at least, or the european economy in general, one can say that here is the backbone of employment, of innovation in the european union, so it is clear that we must strengthen them. we must also strengthen them where they are not so strong yet, but we have indeed been very active in the last couple of years. if i remember the figures correctly – we are talking about the 2010 annual report – more than eur 11.5 billion was given out in cooperation with these small and medium-sized industries, overall it is about 120 000. a last word, on innovation. in my view this is the most important thing we need to think about in looking at our overall role. our overall role is to contribute to the competitiveness of europe in the globalised world. the share of innovation activities we all have there is not, in my view, sufficient. so in addition to what i have said about energy and energy efficiency, new energies in the fields of smes, innovation might be a very important additional pillar. thank you very much and i am looking forward to very good cooperation with this parliament.
rapporteur. − mr president, i wish to thank president hoyer for his responsiveness and openness, and would also thank commissioner rehn and all my colleagues for this fruitful discussion. i also wish to thank everyone involved in the process of preparing this report, which i think is balanced and which acknowledges the eib’s achievements in 2010 and highlights the red-flag points raised during our discussion. let me point briefly to some additional important elements in the report that have also been raised in our discussion today. firstly, on financial instruments, i consider the cooperation between the eib and the commission in this field to be a good example of joint actions and i underline the positive outcome of existing instruments, such as the risk sharing financing facility. however, i believe it essential to develop a comprehensive global audit system which will contribute to ensuring the best control management of these instruments in view of their growing complexity. secondly, on project bonds, i fully share commission rehn’s position and welcome and support the eu 2020 bonds initiative. i welcome the agreement on the pilot phase of the project, which i believe is crucial in order to assess the effectiveness of the new system and to remedy any problems which may occur, in advance and as soon as possible. thirdly, on prudential regulatory supervision, i share the view that the eib should be subject to the same prudential rules as other credit establishments in the union. this will improve the prudential control on the quality of the bank’s financial situation and will ensure that its results are accurately measured. last but not least, the question of climate change was mentioned in the debate. i welcome the eib’s action on climate change and call on it to refrain from funding certain types of projects which have devastating environmental and social impacts. furthermore, i call for full alignment of the bank’s operations with the eu objectives for a swift transition to a low carbon economy. i would like to thank again all my colleagues, and especially the shadow rapporteurs, who worked on this dossier. i hope the house will vote in favour of this report, which will contribute to improving even further the eib’s activities in support of the eu’s objectives.
madam president, i am not going to comment. i support what mr protasiewicz just said but yesterday evening, at the last moment, the ecr group introduced split votes on two amendments, no 6 and no 2. the socialist group was not able to react because of this, but now i would like to ask for a roll-call vote on the second part of both amendments. it is about the death penalty, a fundamental issue for the eu. now we have the chance to show again our commitment to its abolition and we want this to happen in a clear, transparent and decisive way.
i agree with every word you have said about the importance of the black sea region and the importance of the european union's work in this region. i am glad that the commission also sees prospects for further developing its work in the black sea region. unfortunately, as you yourself have mentioned, the development of the eastern partnership seems to have eclipsed the black sea strategy, and the european union's approach to regional cooperation has been extremely weak in recent years. i am pleased that you yourself have shown the importance of the european union's involvement in regional cooperation, not only in the fields of energy, environment and transport, but also in those of human contacts - tourism, culture, education. it is very important that the commission sets specific targets and allocates appropriate resources. without that, we're not gonna get any results.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the reports in the committee on foreign affairs have been adopted by a large – almost unanimous – majority. the position of parliament is therefore quite clear, and i am sure that the reports will be supported in plenary as well. in the short time that has elapsed we could perhaps not only criticise but also commend the balkan countries. but before that, commissioner, i would like to commend you on your firm and credible approach to the two countries. first of all, we should welcome the efforts made by armenia to reform its legislation. the aim of helping the most free and fair elections ever also deserves respect. on 6 may 2012 we shall see to what extent this ambition has turned into reality. the progress in the negotiations on the association agreement only shows how much armenia is set on improving its relations with the eu. azerbaijan is also showing signs that its relations with the eu are becoming a priority. the country is emerging as a strong ally with a growing strategic importance, not only in terms of energy but also in terms of foreign policy and security. keep up the good work.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i also welcome the call to ensure that the negotiations for the conclusion of an association agreement between the european union and azerbaijan and armenia are bound by credible commitments to make substantial progress towards the settlement of the nagorno-karabakh conflict through the withdrawal of armenian forces from occupied nagorno-karabakh and its adjacent territories and their return to azerbaijani control; confidence-building measures such as general demilitarisation, an active incident prevention mechanism and the implementation of international security guarantees through the direct and more active participation of the european union in the minsk group. the european union and azerbaijan have made significant progress in energy cooperation, with azerbaijan being one of the union's main partners in ensuring europe's energy security. technical assistance is needed to help azerbaijan diversify its economy and bring the country in line with the european union's climate change objectives. i support and call on the council, the commission and the european external action service to include in the association agreement clauses and criteria for the protection of human rights, in particular with regard to freedom of the media and the right to freedom of expression and association, reflecting the principles enshrined in the constitutions of azerbaijan and armenia as well as the highest european and international standards. it is also necessary to support the efforts of azerbaijan towards accession to the world trade organisation by providing the necessary technical assistance to prepare for the negotiations and to encourage the adoption of the required reforms. this will allow azerbaijan and armenia at the end of a long-term reform process to gain access to the european internal market, which will help boost their exports, increase investment and contribute to their sustainable growth.
mr president, i would like to thank both the rapporteurs and the rapporteurs of the political groups for the good work they have done and, above all, for the balanced position they have achieved in both reports on the disputed issue of nagorno-karabakh between armenia and azerbaijan. the association of both countries with the european union, and the associated legal and political convergence, economic modernisation and good governance, are of paramount importance for both the european union's foreign policy and for the region. a stronger european political presence in this neighbouring region can help economic progress, respect for human rights, the fight against corruption and the rule of law - areas in which both sides have to catch up to varying degrees. however, the unresolved conflict in nagorno-karabakh must not become a 'stumbling block' for regional cooperation and a hindrance to the deepening of relations between the two countries and the european union. the conflict can only be resolved peacefully within the framework of international law and the minsk group agreements. with the help of the european union and the international community, the two sides must establish confidence-building mechanisms and open channels of communication. the increased role of the european union in the region obliges us to be as careful and accurate as possible in our assessments so that our actions are not like those of an 'elephant in a glass shop' and instead of contributing to a mutually acceptable solution to the conflict, we make it more difficult. i look forward to the holding of fair, transparent and democratic elections in armenia on 6 may, which will help the country's european integration. i welcome the sending of our colleagues from the european parliament as election observers. i call once again on both parties to sign the statute of the international criminal court. i believe that the association agreement is a powerful instrument with which the european union supports the will for significant reforms and democratisation. these are preconditions for opening the way to free trade and visa-free regime with both countries.
mr president, armenia and azerbaijan are part of the south caucasus region, which is strategically important for the eu. the need for a comprehensive eu strategy for this region was recognised by this house two years ago when we adopted a resolution calling on the eu to play a more active role there. since then there has been some progress: negotiations on association agreements have started – as the reports point out – and a visa facilitation dialogue has been initiated, as has enhanced economic cooperation. baroness ashton, the high representative, has visited the region and, of course, the post of special representative has been established. however, we in the european parliament would like to see more. we would first of all like to see more from both countries regarding democratic standards. but we would also like to see greater eu political presence and leverage, in particular with regard to the eu’s potential to contribute in a positive way to the peaceful resolution of the nagorno-karabakh conflict. so far the union has played a modest role, initiating and funding confidence-building measures. at this stage our union can offer more, including participation in possible international peacekeeping missions and playing a leading role in the post-conflict rehabilitation and reconstruction of the conflict-affected areas.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it recalls the very special place to be given to human rights, democracy and the rule of law in the formulation of european union policies and in any relationship or cooperation between the european union and third countries. the report also encourages the member states to continue their efforts in this period of economic crisis. in voting for this report, i am recalling the exemplary role of the european union in the fight for human rights and urging it to live up to the expectations of european citizens.
in writing. i welcome mr howitt's report and am glad that it has been approved by my colleagues. i voted in favour of this report for the simple reason that the european union has always taken to heart the defence of the fundamental rights which are at the very basis of our union. i voted for this report because the union's policy on this matter needs to be more concrete and i look forward to the appointment of the special representative for human rights. in fact, society and the people are hungry for democracy, freedom and the guarantee of their rights, as the arab spring has shown us: the european union must live up to the expectations and hopes of these people. finally, i voted in favour of this report because defending human rights also means defending and guaranteeing the rights of women all over the world, because they are the real drivers of progress, development, democracy and freedom.
ladies and gentlemen, i am against the proposal to make the consolidated corporate charter mandatory for all companies. this would violate the principle of subsidiarity because it creates negative effects on some national economies, including bulgaria, which relies on its competitive advantage to attract investors on the basis of simplified tax rules and low tax rates. of course, the idea of a consolidated tax base as a measure to complete the single market is understandable, as it would help develop international business, reduce the administrative burden and save time and money to study 27 different tax systems. but i think that this idea should remain voluntary because it leaves the decision to include or not to include it in the hands of the corporate taxpayers. the best way to know if the system is successful beyond the theoretical scenarios that i've listed is if the voluntary principle is embraced by business. the obligation to regulate risks killing off competition.
in writing. the eu must take decisive action to improve its competitiveness on the international stage. the proposal we are discussing today aims to create a mechanism for a common consolidated corporate tax base. however, this directive will not increase the eu's competitiveness, but on the contrary will deprive it of the competitive advantages of a diversity of tax rules and rates. some countries will gain and some will lose from the introduction of this common base, but one thing is certain: the end result will be a loss of competitiveness for the union as a whole and an outflow of foreign investment to third countries with more favourable tax conditions. europe needs tax competition if it is to be attractive to foreign investors. the introduction of a common consolidated tax base across the eu will deprive individual member states of their important competitive advantages and, in the long term, will lead to a mechanical equalization of tax rates as a result of revenue reductions in some of them. the eu needs to take a cautious approach and focus its efforts on reducing administrative burdens and improving the business environment. unlocking the full potential of the single market is the key to economic growth and job creation.
in writing. mr president, the existing taxation of energy products according to consumption volumes is not in line with the eu's long-term energy objectives. the introduction of two tax components for carbon dioxide and fuel energy content is a step in the right direction towards reducing carbon emissions, reducing fuel consumption and making the most efficient use of fuel. but why, at a time of economic crisis, when fuel prices are rising, does the commission dare to propose an increase in taxes on energy products? couldn't we have a smooth transition to the new tax rules without raising taxes? today, two-thirds of the price of fuel is due to taxation, so why are we making it even more expensive? who will ultimately pay for these increases? why did we target diesel, where we've invested the most resources and innovation to do it with the lowest emissions and the most efficient engines? those funds haven't been returned yet! that is why, with many colleagues, we are opposed to the fact that at this very moment another blow is being dealt to the economy, to its competitiveness, to the incomes of citizens by unnecessary, harmful, artificial increases in the taxation of energy products, especially diesel fuel. on the contrary, let us keep more tax breaks, including the proposed new tax rules!
mr president, the crisis has undoubtedly caused serious damage to both the public finances and the banking sector of the union countries. the liquidity problems of financial institutions have limited access to financing for large infrastructure projects. these problems were also logically reflected in the structural and cohesion fund programmes. i support the commission in creating a new risk-sharing instrument because it could be a major catalyst to improve liquidity and ensure access to finance for projects under these programmes. i would stress, however, that the difficulties are not limited to the six countries which have already received such aid. why should countries with good fiscal discipline, which are making serious efforts, not have access to such instruments? some of these member states are also among the countries with the lowest per capita incomes. limiting the new instruments to countries with troubled public finances would send a bad signal, because the liquidity problem affects all member states. i call on the commission to ensure that such instruments are available to all parties who wish to benefit from them. this will improve the overall implementation of the programme projects and lead to economic growth and job creation across the european union.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner malmström, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin the debate here today by thanking you for the opportunity to take part in today's debate on trafficking in human beings, which is a very important and pressing issue. there should be no doubt that trafficking in human beings is a heinous crime that must be fought on all fronts. it is a problem which we also know cannot be solved at national level, but which requires both a regional, an international and also a global response. in this context, we need to coordinate european action against trafficking in human beings with our external partners. i am therefore pleased that the fight against trafficking in human beings is given such high priority by the un, the council of europe, the organisation for security and cooperation in europe and the international organisation for migration. i also appreciate the joint comments of the six un agencies on our 2011 directive and i am sure that this contribution will prove useful as member states are implementing the directive ahead of the deadline of 6 april 2013. in this connection it should be noted that this is a directive containing minimum rules. this leaves the member states free to introduce more extensive rules than those resulting from the directive. the un recommendations are also addressed to the member states in their national implementation of the directive. it is therefore a national matter whether or not one wishes to comply with the un recommendations to the extent that they go beyond the directive itself. it follows, inter alia, from the directive that in order to contribute to a coordinated and consolidated eu strategy to combat trafficking in human beings, member states are to facilitate the tasks of an eu coordinator for the fight against trafficking in human beings. in march 2011, the commission appointed the first anti-trafficking coordinator. the role of the coordinator shall be to provide general strategic guidance on trafficking in human beings, including in relation to third countries. i and the other members of the council are very pleased that we now have an anti-trafficking coordinator who is doing a very important job. the commission will examine the mandate of the coordinator. another important element of the directive is the provision that member states must appoint national rapporteurs or establish equivalent mechanisms. the rapporteurs' tasks include assessing trends in trafficking in human beings, measuring the results of anti-trafficking actions, and overseeing the collection of statistics and reporting. in 2009, the council decided to establish a network of national rapporteurs and similar mechanisms to monitor trafficking in human beings. as the un commentary also shows, it is extremely difficult to assess the real extent of trafficking in human beings. one of the aims of this network is to improve our understanding of the phenomenon of trafficking in human beings and to collect reliable data. the network is accessible to eu institutions and agencies as well as to relevant international organisations, including, of course, the un. the presidency of the council, in cooperation with the commission, shall coordinate the activities of the network and chair its meetings. the network meets approximately every six months and the secretary-general of the council and the secretariat of the european parliament are invited to attend its meetings. the last meeting took place in february 2012 here. i hope that answers your questions, otherwise i am sure the commission can help you with further information.
member of the commission. − madam president, i think this is a very good opportunity to discuss this matter. trafficking of human beings is a horrible crime. it goes on today, it affects millions of people – young children, women, men – and it is a shame. it is unacceptable that today, in 2012, this modern slavery still goes on. i think – or rather i know – that the european parliament has pursued this issue for many years, and some member states have been very quick to engage in these issues, while others have taken a little more time. however, i think it is fair to say that today everybody is very committed – member states, the commission, parliament – to fighting this horrible violation of human rights. it is a priority for all of us, and it is very important for me personally. the directive to which the presidency was referring and which was the subject of your oral questions is very important for preventing and combating the problem, as well as for protecting the victims. it is a reflection of our joint commitment. it has a comprehensive and integrative approach. it is centred on the protection of victims and on human rights. it is gender-specific and does not only focus on repression but aims to prevent the crime and to ensure that the victims of trafficking are given the opportunity to recover and be reintegrated into society. it brings robust provisions to deliver protection, assistance and support for victims. it asks, for instance, the member states to ensure that all victims are dealt with on the basis of an individual risk assessment. additionally, the member states should establish appropriate mechanisms to identify, assist and support the victims in cooperation with different support organisations. there are special provisions concerning children who are victims of trafficking. the member states are obliged to appoint a guardian or a representative for each child victim and always to take into consideration what is best for the child. regarding prevention, we fully share your concern on the need to put in place concrete preventive measures. the member states are obliged to take measures to discourage and reduce the demands that foster all forms of exploitation. we also foresee the inclusion of a study on demand and supply in our upcoming communication on the strategy, with a view to better understanding the roots and causes of trafficking. the need for preventive actions in addressing the role of the internet in recruitment, as well as in advertising services, was repeatedly brought up during the consultation with stakeholders when elaborating the strategy. the strategy which we are currently in the process of writing will therefore consider the best ways to reflect on the internet. as regards the gender dimension, women, men, boys and girls can all become victims of trafficking. however, victims of trafficking are affected in different ways and to different degrees, so directive 2011/36/eu and the strategy for equality between women and men should mainstream a gender-specific approach in all areas of human-trafficking policy and legislation, reducing vulnerability to trafficking and responding to victims’ needs. the directive is a great achievement, and our focus now must be on transposition and implementation. the commitment of the member states’ governments to enacting national legislation that would give full effect to the provisions is fundamental, and the member states have one year left fully to transpose the provisions. in order to assist them – as has been mentioned – there is an informal contact group on the directive. it brings together experts on the transposition of the directive at national level. during these meetings, member states can discuss questions related to this process that they consider important, and the european parliament is invited to participate in these informal meetings. in this context, we welcome the joint united nations commentary on the directive and its strong focus on human rights. the commentary is a positive exercise by the united nations’ agencies to combine the previously-adopted un and council of europe legislation with the implementation of the eu directive. it places eu policy in a global context, and this is crucial for consistency, as we are discussing a global phenomenon. you asked about the national rapporteur or equivalent mechanism. the directive obliges member states to set up these mechanisms. they will be responsible for the assessment of trends and measuring the result of the anti-trafficking actions: statistics, reporting, etc. some member states already have this in place, and others are now in the process of setting it up. the commission will discuss, within the informal network, how best to implement this provision, and this will also be a question to be discussed in the contact group. let me inform you that the third group of experts on the trafficking of human beings was appointed by the director-general of dg home affairs, mr manservisi. the call for experts was an open call, and the selection was made by a committee which ensured the presence of different specialisations and areas of expertise, as well as a geographical and gender balance. this group of experts included many human rights and gender experts, and they will feed into the commission policies, advise us on policies and initiatives related to trafficking issues, help us to assess policy and assist us in identifying measures to be taken. overall, this group of experts is a forum for the discussion of all issues relating to the trafficking of human beings. the anti-trafficking coordinator, mrs vassiliadou, took up her mandate a year ago. the commission is in the process of providing additional staff for her in order to support her and ensure that she can fully exercise her tasks and priorities. she has been working on making anti-trafficking policies more coherent, such as by mainstreaming the issue in different policy strands and ensuring coordination between the different actors. partly in order to ensure transparency, the anti-trafficking coordinator will have to contribute to the commission’s biennial reporting on the progress made in addressing trafficking in human beings. in order to evaluate this process, as stated in your resolution on the prevention of trafficking in human beings, there is a need for better information gathering. last year, the commission sent out a questionnaire to the member states to collect data on the trafficking of human beings at eu level. we have received replies from everybody. a general overview of the data will be integrated into the strategy on which we are currently working, and the commission will most likely be able to publish a separate analysis of this later this year. as you know, the commission funds many projects aimed at preventing trafficking both within and outside the eu. some projects address the root causes: for example, there is a project in kosovo that aims to raise awareness amongst the most vulnerable groups in rural areas of kosovo. more information on this project and others is available on the anti-trafficking website. we have an action-oriented paper aimed at strengthening the commitment and the coordinated action of the eu and member states against trafficking in human beings. this will be done in partnership with third countries, regions and organisations at international level. the commission has established an inter-service group on trafficking of human beings shared by the anti-trafficking coordinator. this group brings together diverse policy areas such as migration, asylum, development cooperation, trade, employment and gender policy, to name but a few. coordination is one of the main objectives here, and that was the objective of last year’s anti-trafficking day, which resulted in a joint statement from seven agencies on ensuring future cooperation on trafficking between them. much has been done and much is prepared. the strategy will be presented later this spring or just before the summer. i will be happy to come back and talk about this specific strategy once it is ready, but i would like to thank you for your strong commitment, for your engagement and for urging the commission and the member states never to give up on this and to make sure that we do everything possible to eradicate this horrible form of modern slavery.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, one year after the adoption of the directive on combating and preventing trafficking in human beings, member states still need to take concrete action to put an end to trafficking and effectively protect the victims of such crimes. we hope that the directive, including its provisions concerning criminal offences, will be implemented in a timely, consistent and effective manner and will, together with the eu strategy, lead to improved cooperation cross the union. the further legal framework would enable member states’ actions to have a greater impact not only in terms of law enforcement but also for the protection and assistance provided to victims. it is therefore crucial that the european anti-trafficking coordinator is provided with appropriate tools and means of cooperation, in order to coordinate efforts at national and eu level. existing data show that women and girls represent the majority of trafficked people, and we should take into account the root causes of such phenomena, particularly when we speak about gender-based discrimination and violence against women. in this respect, transposing and implementing this directive with an open gender perspective is crucially needed. further efforts in terms of ensuring the establishment of national rapporteurs responsible for gathering gender-separated national statistics and data would be welcome. in terms of prevention and information, gender-sensitive awareness campaigns still remain to be developed. finally, as rapporteur for the european parliament on the victims’ rights package, i would like to stress the need to draw up a solid and ambitious legislative framework establishing minimum standards for victims of crimes and facilitating the recognition of protection measures – civil or criminal –across the eu. i hope the council will also acknowledge that supporting victims and recognising their rights throughout the union is essential in order to facilitate the reporting of crimes and effectively combat organised crime networks which abuse thousands of people and deprive them of their fundamental rights, regardless of their nationality and place of residence.
mr president, i voted against mrs thyssen's report on the taxation of the consolidated tax base. i'm all for simplifying the economic environment and creating more transparency. indeed, such a move would help some of the multinational companies. however, the report has two main problems. the first of these talks is about the harmonization of tax rates, and i fully agree with my colleagues that it is not possible for the european union to impose tax rates on individual member states. this is not normal and it's beyond any economic logic. the second problem concerns the formula for the distribution of the tax on holding companies. it is based on criteria, albeit slightly improved by parliament, which are far from any economic logic and which do not create the conditions for a better competitiveness of enterprises and a fairer distribution of taxes. a general tax collection only makes sense when there are also fiscal transfers, and there are no fiscal transfers.
mr president, i want to say on behalf of my colleagues in the bulgarian delegation in the socialist group that we voted against this report on the increase in excise duty rates on certain fuels because we believe that it does not contain sufficient economic logic. in a period when market prices for fuels are rising and this trend will continue in the future the levelling of rates and the increase in diesel rates, albeit in the long term, will lead to several negative effects: higher inflation, lower competitiveness of firms and a much lower quality of life. this will be particularly true in countries where there are lower incomes and the relative price of fuel is much higher. what would happen if we increased the excise taxes in proportion to the income of the individual countries? then we will see that indeed some countries will be much worse affected. that is why i think the council should not allow this decision.
in writing. - mr president, there is no doubt that if there are 27 tax systems in the eu, not only is it difficult for companies to operate across borders, but the completion of the single market is in question without common tax rules. but that does not mean that uniform corporate tax rates are immediately necessary. let us not forget that tax competition is an important instrument for member states to attract investment and to regulate economic and financial processes, and it is no accident that tax policy is entirely within their competence. i therefore supported the rejection of the proposals for minimum tax rates, which would today have a detrimental effect on those economies which need extraordinary incentives to achieve growth and greater competitiveness. for economies with a flat tax rate of around 10 to 12%, the introduction of a tax rate of 25%, as proposed by some colleagues in parliament, would be tantamount to eliminating the potential to attract investment with unforeseeable economic and social consequences. today, in the context of the economic and financial crisis, the times are not right to impose tax solutions external to the member states, which could further erode the already shaky confidence in the eu, especially if a tax hike is on the horizon.
in writing. the defence of fundamental human rights is at the heart of the principles and values of our union. the treaty of lisbon provides for the accession of the union to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the question which arises today is therefore not so much a technical one as a political one. the reservations expressed by some member states, especially as regards the strasbourg court, call into question the very principle of separation of powers. how can we expect european citizens to have their fundamental rights upheld if we impose on the european court of human rights the principle of subsidiarity, restrictive criteria of accessibility and considerations of 'margin of interpretation' in these judgments? i believe that a strong court, accessible to citizens and defending their rights in a neutral manner, is essential for the proper functioning of democracy in europe. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to show strong political will to continue to ensure the integrity and authority of the strasbourg court and to finally make the process of accession of the union to the echr accessible to civil society actors.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs kiil-nielsen, and the fictitious rapporteurs on the excellent work they have done on this report, which deals with the role that women can play in combating climate change and which shows the intrinsic link between gender equality and environmental protection. today more than ever, we must face the fact that things will not improve if we exclude women - that is, more than 50% of the world's population - from political, economic, commercial and environmental decisions. women are key actors in development and environmental protection, not only because they are often the most affected by the consequences of environmental policies, but also because they are often the most knowledgeable about good practice. thus, it is essential to recognise the quality of women as effective agents of change when it comes to environmental protection and management. i therefore believe that environmental protection requires women to have access to courses on this subject. the european union has a responsibility to inform women and to open the doors of scientific research to them, so that they can acquire more advanced knowledge and skills. in addition, we need to promote women in decision-making positions to ensure a greater diversity of green solutions, which would contribute to better management of environmental problems while promoting gender equality. in addition, we must emphasise the importance of gender equality and the marginalisation of women in the context of sustainable development. full participation of women in environmental protection and management can contribute to the achievement of the mdgs and to responding to the challenges of climate change. it's a virtuous circle where women become actors in environmental protection and sustainable development gives women greater access to material, economic and natural resources. the commission and the member states will strengthen the added value of domestic and external action tools and development policies and strategies if the links between the promotion of women's rights, gender equality, economic growth, sustainable development and environmental protection are finally strengthened.
mr president, i would like to congratulate ms kiil-nielsen for the great work she has accomplished. i very much welcome this report calling for a greater role for women in tackling climate change. i believe the integration of gender issues in climate change policies would make such policies more effective, efficient and fair. statistics show that women are disproportionately affected by climate change, notably as victims of climate- and resource-related wars, natural disasters and in terms of infectious diseases, malnutrition and gender-based violence. we have to take into account this issue within europe’s climate diplomacy and ensure that climate change and disaster-reduction measures are gender responsive. gender mainstreaming would allow the mitigation of gender-related discrimination and use women’s potential to understand better the gender aspect of climate change in order to develop informed and responsive adaptation strategies. the collection of gender-disaggregated data should be promoted. while recognising that gender is an important factor in combating climate change, the eu’s first priority should be achieving a legally-binding international climate change commitment. for this reason it is crucial for the eu primarily to address the climate change issue at global level and convince international partners to set aside differences in order to reach a sustainable, credible and long-lasting agreement. there is an urgent need for policymakers to reach such an agreement which will be gender sensitive and should include mitigation and adaptation strategies.
in writing. – the 6th environment action programme is the first to be adopted in co-decision, which not only reflects its legitimacy but also the importance given to the environment action programmes over the past 40 years. in fact, these programmes have managed to provide an efficient framework for the protection and promotion of a healthy environment with a constant deepening and reinforcement of environmental policies. this is why we urge the european commission to present the proposal for a 7th eap in such a way as to ensure continuity of the eu environmental framework policy and avoid any gaps which might discredit our political will. i believe the persistence of the eaps represents a major element with which to build a strong political message from the eu institutions on the one hand and a firm position on the protection of the environment, on which real progress has still to be achieved, on the other.
mr president, i welcome the vote in favour of the resolution on the situation in mali. in the face of this security, humanitarian and food crisis, we must act and ensure that everything is in place firstly, to protect the most vulnerable people i.e. displaced people, women and children ; secondly, to support the regional and international efforts of the cdao, the african union and the united nations to resolve the conflict; thirdly, to assist the interim malian authorities in the forthcoming democratic transition process and thus defend the sovereignty and integrity and unity of mali; finally, the stability and security of the sahel region, which is currently weakened by the terrorist threat and the food crisis, which are weighing heavily on its future, must be ensured. i therefore ask the commission and the member states to engage with the people of mali and with the various international organisations so that the whole sahel region knows that the european union will do everything possible to guarantee fundamental rights, including the right to live in a peaceful environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on our life insurance, our natural capital: an eu biodiversity strategy to 2020 by gerben-jan gerbrandy, because it is a step forward towards protecting this diversity in europe and promoting the sectors that contribute to it. i thank my colleagues for supporting my amendment in defence of the beekeeping sector. now that we are discussing the new cap, we have a duty to give beekeepers a positive signal and to assure them that their efforts are not in vain and unnoticed. as the ep's report on bee health and the challenges facing the beekeeping sector says, it is of great importance for the conservation of biodiversity. 84% of plant species and 76% of food production in europe depend on bee pollination. bulgaria is one of the most biodiverse countries in europe. at the same time, bulgarian beekeeping, as in other countries in europe, is facing the problem of loss of bee colonies, a fact that threatens biodiversity in europe. so we have to give the sector a chance, because unlike the environmental measures the commission is discussing, which we are going to impose on farmers for a greener cap, the only thing we have to do for the beekeepers is to help them just do their job.
international calls during travel within the european union are on average five times more expensive than national calls. the current system for pricing roaming services is not sufficiently transparent. the additional price increases for roaming services create obstacles to the development of the pan-european market for these services and need to be revised. i therefore support the proposal which provides for a ceiling on wholesale prices and the levels subsequently offered to end users. the second part of the proposal, which aims to reinforce the need for greater transparency in market pricing, involves providing consumers with full and transparent information on roaming charges. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs niebler, for her excellent work on this complex and important directive which aims to reduce the cost of roaming services for european consumers in the current economic crisis. this is incompatible with the concept of developing a common integrated european market for services and with the idea that these services should be accessible to all of us and that there should be free competition in this market. that's why i support mrs. niebler's work and think it's wonderful.
in writing. let us congratulate mrs nibler on her excellent work in reaching an agreement with the member states to reduce the price of using mobile phones and tablets while travelling in the eu. we have all seen the increasing mobility of people in the eu, but the use of mobile devices abroad remained too expensive, especially data transmission. it was an obstacle to small businesses and ordinary people integrating into the european family. this summer, european citizens will feel the impact, and in just two years, roaming will be at least twice as cheap. such a policy is needed by the union in the current crisis, in the urgent need for measures for growth, for an even deeper integration of people and markets within the eu. i cannot ignore the fact that the new roaming agreement provides for very strong measures to promote competition in this area, to bring in more operators, including virtual ones, without requiring people to change their telephone numbers and charging for changing operators. i would say that the roaming situation is one of the best news stories that has been produced recently, and the ep has the main credit for it.
the european union has a great opportunity to renew and strengthen its cooperation links with its southern mediterranean neighbours. the highest priority has been to provide the necessary support for the democratic transition processes in these countries, in order to ensure respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms, equality and justice. and in this context, trade relations play an essential and complementary role to the necessary political and institutional transition in that they provide resources for the economic and social development of these countries. with the right rules and conditions, trade can help to strengthen the union's ties in the region and accompany efforts to establish democracy. it is the union's duty to ensure that all the elements of cooperation - political and commercial, two sides of the same coin - are justly balanced and turn out to be of real benefit to the citizens of europe and those on the southern shore of the mediterranean. i believe that the report on trade for change to which we refer today sets out measures and proposals to ensure that this objective is achieved. as has been said here and as the commissioner has also quoted, the more for more principle introduces and represents a crucial first step in this direction, and we hope that it will be put into practice as soon as possible by the european external action service. finally, i would like to highlight some elements which i believe are very important for this trade policy with the region: the effort to combat child labour and respect for international labour law; the promotion of information and communication technology (ict) development niches which, in turn, would represent a support for young people - it is becoming increasingly clear that young people are the main users of these technologies, and this would serve to combat youth unemployment in the region; it should be remembered that the population of these countries between the ages of 10 and 19 represents 20%, while in the european union it represents only 11%; and last but not least, the promotion of sustainable rural development which allows to offer quality products while meeting traceability criteria and maintaining a balanced trade balance. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr rinaldi, on his good work and also on the excellent cooperation.
on behalf of the alde group. i congratulate my colleague niccolo rinaldi on a substantive and timely report. i support the commission's decision to launch negotiations on deep and comprehensive free trade agreements with tunisia, egypt, morocco and jordan, aimed at removing remaining tariff barriers to goods and agricultural products, overcoming non-tariff barriers and broadening the scope of trade agreements, which in the long term will lead to poverty reduction and promote the desired peace and prosperity in the region. i also welcome the commission's introduction of the 'more for more' concept, but i call on the european external action service to publish more quickly the criteria on the basis of which, together with the definition of the commercial scope, it will be decided whether a country meets the conditions for such an agreement. we are talking about small and medium-sized enterprises and they do provide 25% of the employment in the region and a strong role for them is a necessary condition for a successful trade strategy for the southern mediterranean. so i join the call for reliable, accessible and easily understandable microcredit schemes for these smes. provision should also be made for agreements on visa facilitation for business representatives, coordinated with trade negotiations and without unnecessary red tape. i regret that civil society in the southern mediterranean countries still perceives the european union as insufficiently active in supporting the reform process. i therefore believe that trade agreements should be backed up by strengthened human rights clauses, improved monitoring and enforcement mechanisms and an ambitious sustainable development chapter. once again, congratulations to mrs rinaldi and i really think this report is good and timely.
in writing. – the arab spring had a strong negative effect on private investments in the region. since january 2011, a lot of these investments have been transferred to other countries which were considered more politically stable, such as turkey. the eu shares responsibility for this. indeed, the slowness of its reaction and the lack of political will and coherence resulted in investors’ lack of confidence. depending on the country, the post-arab spring political situation is taking more or less time to stabilise, but we can be confident at this stage that the southern mediterranean countries will find a way towards democracy. we should encourage this transition by boosting public and private investments in the region, through the facility for euro-mediterranean investment and partnership, with emphasis placed on smes. that the eu manages to send the right signals at the right time is crucial. this is not just a matter of economics; this will define its credibility in a region where half the population is under 25 and which promises to be increasingly dynamic.
i want to express my concern about the situation in the republic of macedonia. on the one hand, after the terrible murder of five young men, we are witnessing a renewal of the ethnic tensions that we thought were contained 10 years after the signing of the ohrid agreement. state authorities must do their job, regardless of the ethnic and religious background of the victims and perpetrators. this is very important both for the stability of the republic of macedonia and for the stability of the region. on the other hand, very illogically, especially in the aforementioned context, the provocations against bulgaria and bulgarians continue. a recent example is the incident at the tribute to the bulgarian revolutionary and officer goce delchev in skopje. despite timely information from the bulgarian embassy, the anti-bulgarian hooligan event was not prevented by the law enforcement agencies and the bulgarian ambassador was prevented from presenting flowers to the common historical hero of both countries. our parliament in the last few resolutions on macedonia has repeatedly called for a common commemoration of common historical events and heroes as a step towards reconciliation and overcoming historical injustices. i believe that the only way forward for the republic of macedonia is european integration and i hope, for the sake of the prosperity and security of the macedonian citizens, that the authorities in the country will listen to our recommendations and take up the outstretched hand.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, as shadow rapporteur for the parliament’s discharge, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr liberadzki, for the work he has done. in committee, i think, we reached a good compromise which identifies concrete areas for improvement. i urge all my colleagues not to accept any appeals to reject this resolution but, on the contrary, to support it. i will briefly address three points which i consider important in this report. first: public procurement. we need clearer rules. we call on the bureau to review all control mechanisms in order to guarantee the most competitive prices for the services and goods offered. second: security, which is still a major issue for many meps. in the report we have targeted concrete areas where improvements could be made. third: the internal auditors’ report. we hope this will be provided to members of the committee on budgetary control on time, so that we can make a clear assessment of the situation. now let me quickly comment on some issues arising from the commission discharge. first, i want to congratulate rapporteur christofer fjellner for his excellent work and energy during the whole procedure. there are a number of important aspects this year, of which the first is shared management. this year again, the court of auditors has not been able to issue a positive declaration of assurance on the union budget. i call on the commission to find the appropriate tools and to apply stricter and adequate sanctions in order to ensure that member states assume their responsibilities. i note, however, the presence of the council at today’s debate. the second aspect concerns financial instruments. their use is continually increasing and they are indeed useful, but we do not know to what extent. we need to assess them better, using appropriate indicators, and to establish a clear link between inputs and results. the third aspect is that of instruments for financial assistance. the eu budget guarantees loans and the balance of payments in the european financial stability mechanism for a maximum of eur 110 billion. this is almost an annual budget, and we definitely need clearer accountability and greater transparency with regard to operations under these instruments. finally, i would like to welcome the important role that the court of auditors plays in the whole discharge process, and i am certain that our fruitful cooperation will continue on all aspects of budgetary control.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i warmly welcome today’s debate, which is jointly addressing the issues of visa-free travel for all eu citizens and the eu-canada economic and trade agreement, and i would like to start by congratulating the colleagues who have taken this initiative. not only are we addressing an issue which is of key interest and which directly affects european citizens from bulgaria, romania and the czech republic, but we are also touching on the values of our union and the principles on which we would like the commission to stand firm as part of its negotiating mandate. i am confident that the commission will continue negotiating a comprehensive economic and trade agreement with the canadian authorities, taking due account of our international commitments when it comes to trade and economic exchanges, as well as our rules and priorities for our own single market and our consumers. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, and representing the interests of the union in this negotiation, has a duty to make sure our economic and market rules are respected and upheld in any international agreement that is concluded. but let us not forget that our union is not only about trade and economic exchange or about the free movement of goods and capital. it is also and mainly about people – about the citizens of europe – and i hope that the commission will put the core principle of european citizenship on the same level as our economic interests. we should not forget, either, the existing common eu visa policy. together with meps from romania and the czech republic, i have already sent a letter to prime minister harper expressing our hope that by the date of completion of negotiations for either or both of the bilateral agreement and the comprehensive economic and trade agreement, scheduled for the first quarter of next year, the visa situation for romanian, czech and bulgarian citizens will be resolved. looking at the situation today, we still have reason to be concerned. as you know, any future eu-canada economic and trade agreement will have to be approved by this house, and we have made clear to prime minister harper that we are not ready to compromise on the principle of equal treatment for all european citizens. we are also aware that other points in the negotiations might be problematic, notably with regard to trade, preferential markets or energy and environment, for example. we are not denying, or forgetting about, these crucial issues but are simply asking for a fair and comprehensive negotiating strategy on the commission’s part – one which takes into consideration the concerns and warnings voiced by the european parliament. so let us be clear and consistent and let us not conclude an agreement which would imply different levels of rights for european citizens according to whether they come from france, the uk or germany, or from bulgaria, romania or the czech republic, for example. as an elected member of the european parliament who comes from bulgaria, i do not ask for any exemption or special consideration. i am simply standing up for equal treatment for all european citizens, regardless of their member state of origin. finally, i would be grateful if the commission could clarify whether this principle will indeed become a ‘red line’ for the eu when it is concluding negotiations with the canadian authorities. could you, commissioner, also inform us about your cooperation with commissioner de gucht on this matter, as we believe it is crucial that both citizens’ rights and trade considerations should be pursued on the same path, towards, we hope, a successful outcome?
blue-card question. – mr president, i would like to put a question to mr campbell bannerman. in explicitly mentioning mexico as an example, does he see any similarities between bulgaria, romania and mexico and, if so, could he mention some of them? or does he see that bulgaria and romania actually have more similarities with the rest of the european union?
mr president, madam malmström, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's common foreign and trade policy must prove that europe has a strong voice in the world and that the european institutions can defend the interests of all the citizens of the european union, in contrast to what my colleague from the united kingdom clearly does not want - to have such a strong european union. i'm sorry he's not here in the courtroom anymore. i am in favour of further deepening european integration leading to a more effective, stronger community supranational foreign, trade and security policy. the country that does not want to have such integration is free and it is its sovereign right to leave the european union, but not to permanently boycott the desire of other countries that want to have such integration. back to the subject, canada is our important ally and economic partner. the comprehensive economic and trade agreement, which is currently being negotiated and which is desired by both sides, is intended to be a major instrument for facilitating trade between the partners in their mutual interest. however, the existing visa restrictions for citizens of bulgaria, the czech republic and romania when travelling to canada should be lifted. in the course of the negotiations, the european institutions must make this a priority, which will lead to a real facilitation and liberalisation of trade relations between the european union and canada. the trade agreement aims at liberalising trade in services, mainly passenger and transport services, and its text must contain steps aimed at removing barriers to access to this market for services. visa requirements are just such a barrier. i believe, commissioner, that there is a direct link between the trade agreement and the visa regime and that these obstacles should be removed. i am grateful to you, commissioner, for your position, and i expect that in the remaining rounds of negotiations the commission will continue to raise this issue with our canadian partners, particularly in the light of the forthcoming changes to canadian immigration legislation, the guarantee of the principle of reciprocity and, of course, the debated trade agreement. visa-free travel to canada for all citizens of the european union is a key condition, the implementation of which will also lead to a real facilitation of trade between the european union and canada. i also share the view of my colleagues who have said before that there is a risk that our parliament will not ratify this agreement if these conditions are not met. ensuring visa-free travel and guaranteeing reciprocity for all citizens of the european union must be a priority for the european institutions in relations, especially with our strategic partners such as the united states, canada and australia.
mr president, madam commissioner, back on 9 june 2010, colleagues from the european parliament and i submitted a question to the european commission on visas for bulgarian, romanian and czech citizens to canada. prior to that, at the last eu-canada summit, a commitment was made to remove the remaining obstacles to achieving visa-free travel for all eu citizens. nearly two years have passed since then, but visa regulations are still in place, restricting the free movement of citizens of these countries. the european parliament believes that there is only one category of citizen in the european union and that there is certainly no second-hand category. the commission's negotiations with canada on the comprehensive economic and trade agreement will determine the future legal framework for economic relations between the european union and canada. a key element of economic and trade agreements is the extent to which they facilitate travel for trading partners. however, this element is not currently operating at full capacity as canada requires visas for citizens of romania, the czech republic and bulgaria. it is therefore important that such an agreement be negotiated on the basis of visa reciprocity. the introduction of visa-free travel for citizens of all eu member states should be a priority during the remainder of the negotiations. the abolition of visas will help to build close ties to the benefit of both canada and the european union as an indivisible whole. justice must be achieved, because unfortunately we are witnessing a one-sided justice: canadian citizens can travel freely in all 27 member states, while at the same time imposing a restriction on some full members of the european union. i am convinced that the abolition of visa requirements will help to strengthen cooperation in business and trade, to promote cultural and scientific exchanges and to allow for stronger ties between canada and europe. canada is a partner country of the union in many areas, so together we must commit to removing the obstacles that hinder us in achieving the common goal of establishing a free movement area. achieving this common objective means removing the constraints and strengthening the principle of reciprocity, two elements that can greatly contribute to the good of both canadian and european citizens, with whom we are ultimately sailing in the same boat through this agreement.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the members for this very important debate. canada is a country with which we have a special relationship. it is a friend and an ally on many issues, and it is in both canada’s interest and our interest that we try to deepen the relationship in all possible ways. that is why this visa issue is so frustrating, and i share your frustration here. of course the commission is doing everything it can to make sure that there will be full visa freedom between canada and the eu, in both directions. i have, on numerous occasions, raised this issue with the canadian authorities, indeed with the minister himself, and so have my colleagues in the commission and many of the commission officials. we hope that the issue between romania and bulgaria, on the one hand, and canada, on the other, can be solved very soon when romania and bulgaria enter the schengen cooperation system. meanwhile the immigration bill should enter into force by the end of this year, so there should be a possibility of breaking the deadlock. this is an issue we are following very, very closely and we have made clear to our canadian counterparts that visa reciprocity is a key issue for us in the commission, for member states, for the european parliament and for our citizens. we have also made clear that it may influence the ratification of the ceta process. however this is not part of the formal negotiating mandate. i think the message from this plenary has been very clearly heard, and we will continue on the commission side to push this issue. it will also be part of the discussion on a new eu-canada framework agreement, and we will set up a working group with the countries concerned, the commission and the canadian authorities. i am confident we can achieve a solution to this problem, and i hope we will do so very soon.
in writing. there is something deeply symbolic about the fact that the upcoming trade agreement between canada and the european union is the occasion for the debate on the abolition of canadian visas for bulgarians, romanians and czechs. trade agreements are always mutually beneficial and are as pragmatic as possible. that is why talking about principles and values during trade negotiations is often considered bad taste. i urge us to break the silence and ask our canadian partners: do you think there are first and second class europeans? how else can we explain your deliberate refusal to treat all european citizens as equals? the european union has always been proud to be a 'union of values'. the equality of member states before the treaties is enshrined in article 3 of the treaty of lisbon. it must be defended because its disregard affects the very foundation of the union. the commission shall be assisted by the committee on budgetary control. ensuring visa-free travel for all european citizens must be a priority for all european institutions. canada should lift its visa restrictions for bulgaria, romania and the czech republic. i urge members to remember this when the eu-canada trade agreement comes back to this chamber for our approval.
mr. chairman, colleagues, my immunity is being violated. i'm being politically persecuted, and the bulgarian media is silent. the reason: i'm telling the truth. after a meeting between supporters of the political union i created, gord, the police detained our fellow-minded, and i and the others were treated as criminals. why would you do that? for supporting gord. prominent bulgarians who supported gord are being beaten and humiliated because they are against the government. the prime minister is personally responsible for the repression against us, but he lacks courage and others do his dirty work. europe is ignoring my signals, and that's emboldening the dictator borisov. the government steals from the people and brags to its opponents, there is no democracy. i fear that the inaction of the european institutions could cost both the good name and the lives of my fellow citizens, my relatives, even myself. i call on united europe and the leaders of the european parties to take immediate action and make a clear statement. if respected people confirm that the ruling class is pressuring them because they support me, will you intervene or should i join my fellow citizens in seeking political asylum? if brussels can't protect us from the dictator, where can we turn - to moscow, washington, or maybe beijing? this is the situation in bulgaria.
in writing. – the eu and its internal market provide the highest protection in the world to its consumers. thanks to strict principles, the internal market has created many fair and secure opportunities for producers as well as for consumers. as the rules of the internal market are evolving along with its fast development, the concept of the vulnerable consumer and the necessity to set up special protection are assuming more and more importance in the political agenda. indeed, in order for the internal market to stay fair and secure, it is crucial to highlight the vulnerability of some consumers and to tackle disloyal practices which aim to take advantage of this vulnerability. but types of vulnerability are various and take different shapes which can be very subtle and therefore hard for the legislator to delimitate. this report does not point out a clear definition or specific sanctions but it carefully outlines and enumerates what can be considered to be the consumer’s vulnerability. it is a big step towards a better understanding of this concept and thus a big step towards taking over this issue.
mr president, in the last few months i have been touring bulgaria, my country, and i have met a lot of representatives of mostly small businesses and i have heard the same thing from all of them: "we are suffocating! stop looking at the big companies, the banks, because we are suffocating from the crisis more than anyone else! ' i've seen their manufacturing methods, and unfortunately, many of these companies use the same technology they used 20 years ago when they started their business. and when i asked them, "well, why don't you apply for projects, why don't you innovate your manufacturing?" the answer was the same everywhere: this administration is not worth the effort to try, to apply for a project, because it probably won't work. even corruption doesn't work for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises, because the officials who work on projects want big projects, because big projects lead to big bribes. as for the definition, one word, let's not put limits; putting limits is easy; let's lift the barriers.
mr president, we are all saying that small and medium-sized enterprises need access to finance, need less red tape and need better access to markets. the european union is doing lots on that, but there are still plenty of things that could be done in addition. firstly, on access to finance, we definitely need to increase possibilities for advance payments, especially for micro and small companies. it is very difficult for them to go for co-financing. secondly, on the next multiannual financial framework (mmf), we need to look at things again. i am the rapporteur on the next mff. there is a proportionate decrease in cohesion funding and a decrease in the access of smes to financing. yes, there is increased access to financing for cutting-edge high technologies, but how many small and medium-sized enterprises maintain cutting-edge technologies? all in all, this will lead to a decrease in financing for smes under the next mff. thirdly, again on co-financing, we have been considering something the president of the commission suggested, which is to use funds not spent by the end of the current framework period not only to stimulate employment, but also to stimulate smes. as regards red tape, one should not only make available and promote best practices, but also penalise bad practices, because it is absolutely inadmissible that in some member states funds earmarked for small and medium-sized enterprises remain unspent, for whatever reason – be this administrative or otherwise. fourthly, on enabling access to markets, this is very important in terms of enlarging the digital market – there are plenty of things to be done and we are moving forward with the digital agenda – and also in terms of the mutual recognition of professional qualifications. small and medium-sized enterprises do not have appropriate access to european markets at the moment.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for the clear statement about ukraine and the case of yulia tymoshenko. i have a question, however. i believe you indicated, commissioner, that the entry into force of the association agreement will be linked not only to the case of tymoshenko, but to the free and fair elections to be organised this autumn. of course that is important, but my question is: does it mean that you do not envisage making any move before the elections in ukraine this year? building a democracy is a long-term process – as we have seen within the european union, where some of the central and eastern european countries still have ups and downs in terms of democratic development. what is important, however, is that the authorities understand the problems and work on them. unfortunately we have seen our eastern neighbourhood somehow getting less democratic in recent years, in contrast to the southern neighbourhood. there is a subject for further study there. i am not going to enter into details now, but, while it is too much to compare ukraine to belarus, it is true that, not only in ukraine but also in some other countries, we see these backward steps, and we have to take account of them. we have to show consistency. i would like to remind you that two member states of the european union – bulgaria and romania – are subject to special mechanisms in the field of the judiciary, simply because high-level corruption and abuses of power were not tackled. currently, two prime ministers are in the spotlight: one of them, in romania, has been sentenced and the other one is under investigation and may be fined on certain charges. so we should not, in principle, deny that former prime ministers, ministers and other high-level politicians have to face justice. we should, however, also seek to prevent countries from slipping back into a situation of impunity, and that goes for the current government and current ministers too. ukraine belongs to europe, and we should do our best to avoid it rushing into any kind of asia-related project. the s&d group will continue to use its relations with the parties of the region to mediate in this delicate situation. once again, we emphasise that we share the evaluation of the situation, and especially that selective justice is not acceptable. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for your question. this is a memorandum concerning some joint work and activities, and it does not imply a long-term political connection with this party. of course we are exerting pressure and working at different levels, including at the highest level. as you can see, these relations help to continue the dialogue with the ukrainian authorities. of course, if we do not see any change, we will reconsider the agreement. we have made this clear to our partners as well.
blue-card question. – mr lambsdorff, perhaps i did not understand you correctly, but you said that the socialists should be ashamed of what they are doing. should we be ashamed because of the opportunities that we provide for political exchange with prime minister azarov, for example, or the prosecutors, and all the other opportunities that you and members of your group have also used, or because of efforts to find a sustainable solution in ukraine or maybe because of the attempts to transform a main political player in ukraine? i think we should be ashamed of politicising that case too much. i think the socialists are doing the right thing.
mr president, mr füle, i want to address the rulers of ukraine and tell them that we will not tire of insisting on the holding of fair, just and democratic elections in which the opposition parties and leaders can participate, including mrs tymoshenko and the other politicians who are in prison at the moment because ukraine is not indifferent to us. we have repeatedly stated our desire for ukraine and for over 45 million ukrainians to have a european perspective. the obstacle to this is not yulia tymoshenko, but the family-oligarchic structure created in ukraine after the collapse of the soviet union. unfortunately, this family oligarchy clearly has no desire to reform the country to european standards, and what is most important to them is to preserve the financial channels of enrichment. ukraine is not the only example of this - the farther east of berlin we go, the more difficult the democratic transition is. we have heard many times verbal assurances from the ruling party that they will find a solution to the case of tymoshenko and other opposition leaders. i was at the yalta conference last september, where president yanukovych told karl bild and other colleagues that by the end of 2011 there would be a positive development in the situation with mrs tymoshenko. not only did that not happen, but we're seeing a development in the opposite direction. we have not called for a boycott of the european football championship as a sporting event; on the contrary, i call for this opportunity to be used to promote reforms in the country and to consolidate the european perspective for ukraine. however, in no case should this event be used by ukrainian rulers for their own promotion and this should be guaranteed by those european politicians who intend to go to ukraine.
mr president, the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has confirmed that security is a necessary condition for guaranteeing the exercise of fundamental rights and creating an area of freedom, security and justice. the treaty of lisbon has therefore firmly anchored the union's security policy in a specific legal order. this internal security strategy responds to the call made in the stockholm programme. in order to be able to set up an effective internal security system, a comprehensive analysis of the threats to be fought at european level is necessary. the five priority areas in which the european union can bring added value have been agreed. however, i would point out that although man-made disasters have not been included in the final list of priorities, they are not less important. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. nevertheless, i commend the rapporteur and parliament for taking a step forward to ensure the safety of citizens.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate mrs bozkurt on the work she has done in this report which gives a good account of the situation of women in turkey. all the information and statistics about the current state of turkish society in terms of women's rights are valuable and useful. i voted for this report because it shows us, once again, that the principle of gender equality and respect for fundamental rights are not a reality, despite the legislative frameworks in place. it reminds us how important it is that we continue to work so that women no longer have to suffer discrimination and violence based on gender differences, not only within the european borders, but also all over the world. the european project for society proposes a vision where all men and women, judges of their rights, are free from any form of violence or discrimination and can exploit their full human potential in an environment of equality. i therefore call for this to continue in our relations with third countries, because the union has a crucial role to play on the international scene, in particular by promoting the universal principles of our charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. today, the european parliament is sending a strong signal to the european citizens because we have just strengthened our direct link. citizens now have a powerful instrument of participatory democracy which ensures the consolidation of their participation in decision-making within the union and which, in the end, contributes to strengthening our european democracy. i voted for this report because i believe in the spirit of initiative and in the commitment of citizens. i believe in the virtues of holding public hearings in the european parliament so that this commitment can be expressed. for this reason, i would stress the essential role of the committee on petitions in organising these public hearings, as it has the most expertise and know-how in this area. i ask the commission to keep us regularly informed about the implementation of the citizens' initiative mechanism and the obstacles faced by citizens so that we can, as quickly as possible and without delay, take the necessary measures to make it as easy as possible for citizens to use this instrument. i therefore call on all my colleagues in parliament to commit themselves to ensuring that this mechanism is a genuine, solid and effective bridge between the daily lives of citizens and our work.
mr president, the european council will discuss a plan for stability and growth tomorrow. i wish that could have happened last year, when growth was considered to be a resulting effect of stability. still, i think that this important issue is going to be discussed very thoroughly because now the commission has four tasks on its plate: to stabilise the eurozone, to introduce fiscal discipline and coordination, to stimulate growth and to help countries, like greece, in economic distress. sometimes the solutions to these problems are contradictory and controversial, so there should be a single and coherent policy. before working out the new plan, however, we have to make an assessment of the previous plans. what happened with the eur 5 billion economic recovery plan that was adopted in 2009? recently we understood that the money for it had not been spent. what happened with the final fiscal compact? i am not one of its fervent supporters, but it has not been ratified even by countries that were pushing for it. what happened with the euro-plus pact? we need to take stock of whatever has been achieved so far, and to see what measures could work in the future. i am optimistic about the measures that the commission has suggested and about which you, commissioner rehn, have informed us. but what is the value of a measure if it is not adopted and taken at the right time? i hope that the council is going to agree on mutualisation of project bonds, and on ideas for the use of unspent funds, so that we can really achieve some success and not find ourselves discussing this issue again next year.
in writing. the financial and economic crisis has affected the public finances of the member states, but in parallel it has dealt a serious blow to the union's economic growth. last year, the ep, together with the council, adopted a package of measures to strengthen economic governance, which aims to discipline countries and improve the management of their public finances. this has undoubtedly improved coordination and has a positive effect on the stability of the eu as a whole. but we've seen that's not enough to overcome the crisis. in parallel with fiscal discipline, measures are needed to stimulate growth and create the conditions for job creation. in this context, we must pay particular attention to small and medium-sized businesses, which have been severely affected, and the difficulty of accessing finance and cumbersome procedures are only part of the problems of business today. the financial instruments developed by the commission should play an important role in supporting smes. however, to be effective, they need a tailored approach, including performance indicators and greater transparency about the functioning of the programmes. in parallel, the functioning of the single market and the reduction of administrative burdens, in particular for smes, should be improved.
mr president, i hope that we shall give very broad support to the report in the vote today. i see many colleagues concerned with the effect of the financial transaction tax on taxpayers and i absolutely agree. everybody is concerned with that, but i would like to ask you to look at the balance, for example what the taxpayers are paying for consolidating the financial system, directly through increasing the capital of the banks or indirectly through the european stability fund mechanism, the imf or other mechanisms. thousands of billions are going to consolidate the financial sector. if the financial transaction tax is introduced, this burden on the taxpayers will be alleviated – not entirely but at least partially – and it is very important to note that, if part of it goes to the european budget, it does not mean that this is going to be an additional tax for the european budget. that would mean that the national contributions will be decreased, which at the end of the day would bring the entire revenue from the financial transaction tax to the national budgets. think about that. this is going to be its real interest to the taxpayers.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted for this report because the eu's trade relations with china are indeed experiencing serious difficulties and the benefits are currently being consumed by the chinese side. all kinds of barriers are being put up to european companies looking to enter the chinese market, and china's overly complex regulations and almost total lack of transparency make it impossible for european companies to participate in chinese public procurement. the failure of china to respect intellectual property rights is highly discouraging for european investors and there are no signs of positive developments in this area. on the contrary, the types and quantities of counterfeit goods in world trade are increasing, most of them of chinese origin. dumping, including through the devaluation of the yuan and subsidisation of production in order to obtain trade benefits, is a widely used practice by china to capture world markets, to displace other players. our trade deficit with china has tripled in the last ten years and continues to grow. this is understandably a cause for concern and requires serious action at both european and national level. china is the second largest economy in the world, china is our important economic and resource partner, so we should look for all opportunities for partnership instead of confrontation.
mr president, relations between sudan and south sudan are deteriorating. we are all concerned about the deteriorating security and humanitarian situation in the region. the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but i cannot help feeling that the measures taken so far are far too timid. it is clear that there is still no end to the bombing and other military actions by the sudanese army. the security and humanitarian situation of the civilian population is deteriorating and is causing mass displacement of people. humanitarian assistance from un agencies is being blocked, and i'm passing... the scale of the emergency requires, first, concrete negotiating initiatives and an explicit timetable to guide the process. it is important that the first meeting of the joint political and security mechanism be held as soon as possible so that security and peacebuilding priorities can be identified and a plan of action and work can be established. secondly, this same urgency must inspire the work of the international partners, who must strive to support the efforts undertaken by both sides. and i believe that the activation of the joint border control and surveillance mechanism and the dispatch of international observers are crucial elements of international action which must serve as guarantees that the decisions taken are actually respected. the european union, the united nations and the african union must work closely together in this direction and make their commitment tangible by taking on their role as partners in a concrete way, and therefore also have the courage to raise the question of sanctions. finally, the european union must be more proactive in the peaceful resolution of tensions. the union must ensure regular monitoring - otherwise, why send election observation missions? - and not just act on the spot when a major crisis requires it. we must have the courage to put our texts and declarations into practice. (the president cut the speaker off) i shall now close, mr president, and thank the interpreters. we have powerful instruments in our hands. it is important that the union continue to mobilise all its forces to ensure a peaceful resolution of this conflict and to provide all its support to the citizens.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, today's crisis in the european union is confronting us with problems such as high unemployment, debt and economic recession that we must address immediately. at the same time, there are other issues that are not so obvious at first glance but that require equally urgent solutions, such as the question of resource efficiency in our society. in the next few years, the world's middle class will reach three billion people. it is optimistic to see that developing countries are also reaping the benefits of globalization, but at the same time we must not forget the limited resources of our planet. we need to start living within the limits of this planet, by rethinking our habits and our current system of overproduction and overconsumption of resources. it's the only way to ensure sustainable growth. sustainable development can only be achieved by creating an alternative innovative agenda that focuses on using the resources we already have in the most efficient way. this is of paramount importance if we are to address the problem of the security of supply of resources for europe, as well as the problem of global resource scarcity, which will become increasingly acute in the future. global problems require global solutions, and the european union's efforts in this direction must not remain isolated. the rio 20 meeting is approaching and europe must take on the responsibility of global leadership by promoting its efficient use agenda. i thank my colleague gerben-jan for his excellent work and commissioner potočnik.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu's resource efficiency legislation is certainly one of the most important initiatives whose implementation we must systematically and purposefully support. there's a long list of rare resources and materials that our countries don't have. this makes us too dependent on imports, which threatens not only the development but also the very existence of high-tech industries, which are of paramount importance for the competitiveness of the economy, for the maintenance of the high social standard of european citizens. the solution is to use what we have efficiently, so i welcome the texts on recycling waste as an unused resource of our own, which in many countries is simply thrown in landfills and money is poured into foreign economies to supply the same materials. of course, the need for imports will remain, so there is a need for long-term, mutually beneficial cooperation with resource-rich regions, for which priority union policies should be developed and followed. resource efficiency is a key issue for sustainable development in the eu. it is a pity that only four countries in the eu today have national plans for resource efficiency. that needs to change fast. but i don't accept that the solution is to be found in new taxes and endless new legislation and bureaucracy.
madam president, the young people of europe are the ones most affected by the severe financial and economic crisis, but they are not to blame for it and it is not fair that they should suffer the consequences. the big question today is whether the european union and the member states can help them so that there is no lost generation. i would like to welcome the initiatives of the european commission, but they are not enough. action groups can only be a temporary, supportive measure, but they do not solve problems. the teams went when unemployment was very high in these countries and i want to ask the commissioner today what preventive measures will be taken. the commission's decision should be revised to include countries like bulgaria with the highest rate of youth unemployment because tomorrow it will be over 30% and it will be even more expensive. in two years it has doubled, and more and more young people are left on the streets, well-educated, increasing hereditary unemployment. it is time for the commission to propose community legislation to regulate the creation of industry and new jobs, the relief and incentives for businesses that employ young people and the criminalisation of firms that do not pay for training and insurance. we insist that we should see a transparent allocation of structural fund funds to create jobs for young people.
member of the commission. − madam president, it is a nice day and we start with an important topic. gender equality is a fundamental right enshrined in the european union charter of fundamental rights, but it is also a prerequisite for economic growth, social inclusion and wellbeing in our societies. the most recent figures indicate that the gender pay gap in the european union decreased by 1.2% between 2007 and 2010, from 17.6% to 16.4%. however, the situation is very different from one member state to another, and in some the gap is still widening. the gender pay gap is also an expression of how our pool of well-educated and highly-skilled women is under-exploited. this is an untapped potential for the european union economy that is needed especially at a time when human capital is the key factor for our future and for competitiveness. with today’s debate and the subsequent vote, the european parliament will take a position on an important issue. on behalf of vice-president reding, i would like to thank the rapporteur, edit bauer, for her efforts and also for her excellent work over the last years on this issue. i would also like to thank all members of the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on women’s rights and gender equality for their support. the commission is determined to further promote gender equality. equal pay is one of the commission priorities set out in its strategy for equality between women and men for 2010-2015. as you know, the principle of equal pay is enshrined in the treaty and also in directive 2006/54/ec on equal treatment of women and men in employment and occupation. some of our priorities for the coming years will be to monitor the correct application and enforcement of the equal pay provisions of the directive, and to support member states and other stakeholders with a proper enforcement and application of the existing rules. the commission plans to publish a report on the implementation of the 2006 equal opportunities directive next year (2013). in addition, enhanced transparency on the issue will be crucial in the coming years. as mentioned in your report, awareness-raising campaigns to keep employees and stakeholders informed regarding the existence and risk of the gender pay gap can play an important role. the european gender pay gap information campaign which we launched in 2009 is already a good example. this campaign has created a real partnership amongst social partners – ministries for employment, social affairs and equality, ngos in the field of gender equality, and both private and public recruitment agencies who have acted as multipliers of the campaign messages. my colleague would like to explore this potential further in the future. in addition, on 2 march this year we held the second european equal pay day. this day is fixed each year on the date corresponding to the extra days that women are required to work in europe in order to earn the same salary as a man during a full year of work. you might have seen advertising in national newspapers and our web clip highlighting the absurdity of pay inequalities between women and men. as highlighted in the report, employers are key actors in tackling the gender pay gap. for this reason, the commission has recently launched an initiative to raise companies’ awareness of the gender pay gap and of its causes and consequences, and to support businesses in their efforts to tackle it. the initiative will promote training activities and support the exchange of good practices on the business case for gender equality. these activities are also open to organisations that facilitate training and dissemination of messages, such as business organisations, social partners and others. we are also following closely the pilot projects launched in some member states. your report also mentions the need to improve the quality of statistics. eurostat constantly encourages the member states to provide their national data in a timely manner. eurostat has recently introduced a new breakdown which should show the impact of the type of contracts, part-time in comparison to full-time, in the gender pay gap. preliminary data are now also available on the eurostat website. amongst other things, the commission is further exploring the impact of part-time work and fixed-term contracts on equal pay. finally, with our exchange of good practices programme on gender equality, we are working to foster closer coordination among member states. in this framework the commission organised in germany in december 2011 an exchange of views on instruments to tackle the gender pay gap. representatives from several member states participated. i would like to thank you again for speaking up in order to address this truly important question.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate and thank mrs bauer for the work she has done on this report. i'm not going anywhere. the report we are about to vote on is not only important but also relevant, because it raises the question of the discrimination faced by women in their daily lives. it is only possible that in 2012, more than half a century after the adoption of a legislative framework in this area, the average wage gap in europe will be 17%. firstly, let us not be afraid of words, what we lack is a strong political will, both at european and national level, to ensure that this legislation is implemented. this means that we should strive to promote gender equality and respect for women's rights in every possible way, both in legislation and in awareness raising and information, in order to deconstruct gender stereotypes that continue to prevent women from reaching their full potential. secondly, yes, commissioner, you are right, we must encourage the social partners to create a more inclusive pay structure to enable women to participate actively in the negotiations on pay. this is the way to strengthen women's place in positions of responsibility and in the social partnership structure. moreover, through their participation, women ensure that the gender perspective is included in economic decision-making, thus creating a virtuous circle that opens the door to greater equality. finally, the bodies responsible for promotion, monitoring, equal treatment and data collection must have a strengthened mandate to enable them to act effectively to ensure effective monitoring of the application of the legislative framework at european and national level. i therefore urge you all to vote in favour of this report because it is high time that we put an end to gender inequalities and that we turn our words and our texts into deeds.
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, i very much welcome the report on equal pay for male and female workers and would like to congratulate mrs bauer for the great work accomplished. despite having extensive equal pay legislation for over fifty years, the gender pay gap has only marginally reduced, and this provides a clear indication that legislation needs to be improved with a view to eradicating the still existing stereotypes about the role of women in the labour market. these stereotypes contribute to occupational segregation, the undervaluing of women’s work and the rising phenomenon of poverty among women. also, in order to achieve tangible results, it is of the utmost important to support concrete policy initiatives which improve wage transparency, impose stricter sanctions on employers for non-compliance with equal pay legislation, and empower those suffering from wage discrimination to take their cases to court and seek a remedy. it is high time we took action to achieve concrete results in practice, and not only on paper, by addressing one of the most persistent and rigid problems in the field of gender equality.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, colleagues, european union macro-financial assistance began to be used in the 1990s to provide financial assistance to third countries experiencing short-term balance of payments difficulties. a total of 55 decisions have been approved so far for 23 countries, totalling eur 7.2 billion in grants, loans or a combination of the two. in its explanatory memorandum to the draft regulation, the commission and i as rapporteur pursue two main objectives: to increase efficiency and the need for clear rules and conditions for the negotiation of macro-financial assistance. i will not, of course, go into all the details, but i would like to share my main ideas, which i am convinced defend the european parliament's basic prerogatives, namely: first, the commission proposed that decisions on the granting of macro-financial assistance be taken on a case-by-case basis by means of implementing acts in order to speed up the process of granting such assistance and to make it more efficient. but i do not agree with this approach, especially since at present every case of granting macro-financial assistance is carried out through the joint decision-making procedure. that is why i propose the use of delegated acts, because they combine greater speed and efficiency with the need for democratic control by the european parliament. secondly, i believe that macro-financial assistance should bring european added value and that it should only be used when the union has something to offer and not to perform the functions of a complementary instrument to the international monetary fund. moreover, this aid is often too small to ensure the implementation of the policy under the mou. the report therefore suggests that in most cases the european union contribution should not fall below a certain minimum rate in order to ensure that the large countries have access to the aid and that the european union's participation provides such added value. the practice of linking macro-financial assistance to the imf scheme should apply as a rule, but the european union should have the flexibility to work with other european and multilateral financial institutions such as the world bank or the european investment bank. the commission proposal is somewhat vague as to how the grant/loan ratio is to be determined, stating that the level of economic development of the beneficiary country is taken into account, without however explaining how this analysis will be used. fourth, and very important, macro-financial assistance is also an instrument of the union's external policy. in order to ensure the coordination and consistency of that policy, the close involvement of the european external action service should be ensured throughout the macro-financial assistance operation, thereby enhancing the coherence between macro-financial assistance and the union's external policy objectives of promoting democracy and human rights. therefore, the introduction of a special report by this service before any macro-financial assistance is offered would be useful to check whether each partner country respects human rights and other political conditions. i am convinced that the policy measures in the field of democratic principles and human rights should be included in the memorandum of understanding. i also consider that the deterioration of democratic conditions is a reason for the temporary or permanent suspension or reduction of the payment of the aid. finally, i would like to emphasize that the commission has proposed that this be a temporary regulation valid only for this financial framework, which means that it will last less than two years. i proposed that the regulation be open-ended, thus ensuring legal certainty and avoiding duplication of work.
member of the commission. − mr president, it was a key objective of the commission’s proposal to make mfa a more timely and effective tool, while fully ensuring parliament’s ownership and support. that was also clearly stated by mr kazak, whom i thank for the report. i should also like to thank the members of the committee on international trade (inta) for their work. we welcome this report, therefore, as a good basis for further discussions. i would like to focus the commission’s initial feedback on three points which were also addressed by the rapporteur: the use of the delegated act procedure, the issue of political pre-conditions and, finally imf conditionality. the report proposes using the delegated act procedure – under article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union – to adopt decisions for individual mfa programmes, by introducing an annex which would be amended for each decision. it also proposes that the memorandum of understanding for each programme should be adopted by the delegated act procedure. however, we believe that the treaty is clear on this issue: the delegated act procedure is applicable only to non-legislative acts of general application, to supplement or amend non-essential elements of the legislative act. from the commission’s perspective, decisions on individual programmes and on memoranda of understanding would be classic cases of implementing the legislative act, not supplementing it. the framework regulation should establish which countries are eligible, and the conditions for providing mfa. these conditions should be implemented in a uniform way for all operations. therefore, in accordance with article 291 of the treaty, the implementing powers for decisions concerning individual programmes and for the memoranda of understanding should be conferred on the commission. the report also proposes using the delegated act procedure for updating the list of eligible countries. for these exceptional cases, the use of the delegated act procedure could indeed be further explored. concerning political pre-conditions, the commission supports the proposal to strengthen the assessment and monitoring of political pre-conditionality. democratic mechanisms, the rule of law and respect for human rights are important pre-conditions for mfa, and a reference to this could indeed be further strengthened in the regulation. however, the commission would strongly argue against the definition of specific political measures in the area of human rights or democratic institutions as conditions for the disbursement of mfa tranches. this would turn a genuinely macroeconomic instrument into an essentially political instrument; this would be, in our view, contrary to the nature and the objectives of mfa. the commission would like to emphasise that economic governance is already an integral part of mfa. issues such as corruption and transparency are regularly referred to in mfa conditionality. finally, on the issue of imf conditionality, softening imf conditionality as proposed by the report raises quite a number of concerns. the imf is the main provider of macroeconomic assistance to countries undergoing serious balance of payments difficulties. the imf programme offers a framework for the adjustment process and, by definition, the imf is the key institution for balance of payments support. it cannot be replaced by another european or multilateral financial institution, as no other institution provides this type of support. the fact that mfa is a complementary instrument by nature is also reflected in the size of the instrument. giving up the connection to the exercise of an imf programme would therefore not be advisable. to conclude, mfa is important as a means of helping to stabilise countries close to the eu. however, decision-making procedures have become heavy and have slowed down the effectiveness of this tool. the framework regulation is truly a chance to sharpen it up and enable it to be used more efficiently. the commission is eager to work closely with parliament to achieve this goal.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr kazak for the comprehensive report. it is important to know that afet proposed faster disbursement of macro-financial assistance by the adoption of delegated acts for strategically important third countries only. we were of the opinion that the european parliament’s leverage and scrutiny role should not be undermined. let me also remind you that the list of candidate and neighbouring countries is approved by parliament in various legal texts. we established, in the report, clear and precise eligibility criteria for the disbursement of mfa funds, regular country analysis and monitoring as well as seizure of wrongfully appropriated assets. furthermore the afet opinion divides eligible countries into candidate, potential candidate, neighbourhood and – in exceptional and duly justified circumstances – strategically important third counties. i am glad to see that most of afet’s proposals have largely been included in the final report. the instrument for macro-financial assistance is a very important foreign policy tool of the european union. despite having a smaller budget than other external action instruments, it brings great benefits to recipient countries by improving their balance of payments and thus stabilising their economies. it does not overlap at all, in terms of scope and goals, with other external action instruments. for this reason, and to demonstrate the european union’s commitment to the stability and prosperity of our neighbourhood, i urge you all to support the report.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, macro-financial assistance is, without doubt, a truly important instrument, and we should use it in the best possible way. i would like to thank ms neynsky for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs and the point about the use of the implementing act for the most eligible countries. i can provide some clarifications and some answers to your questions. on the question concerning the level of corruption in recipient countries, this is already a criterion. the same goes for public-finance management, a key condition for disbursement. on the 20% minimum share, which was mentioned by the rapporteur, the commission has sympathy with the aim of ensuring that mfa is seen to offer added value, but we believe that fixing an indicative minimum share for it is quite difficult. economically, it would be difficult to justify the precise figure of 20% and, as with the maximum share which is an aspect of the general criteria, there are also difficulties in calculating residual financial gaps in an unambiguous way, in particular given the differences in the reference periods due to the delays in the mfa decision-making process. on the role of the european external action service in the decision making, i can say that it is already consulted before any mfa proposal is adopted by the college of commissioners. the eeas participates both in inter-service consultations at staff level and in the college decision itself, through the vice-president/high-representative, as well as before every disbursement, of course. however, given that the eeas is an autonomous body and not an institution, and given the treaty provisions, the eeas cannot be singled out and put in a legal act in the same manner as the commission. however, we have sympathy for strengthening its role in the regulation, as i have already mentioned. finally, on the question of whether the regulation should be prolonged, what do we think about that? this regulation is, as you know, being proposed under the current multiannual financial framework (mff). given the delays and the parallel discussions on external instruments under the mff, it might make sense to extend it into the next financial framework period. however, deleting the expiry date and any reference to a specific financial framework would be contrary to all common budgetary practice. also, this regulation includes numerous specific conditions for mfa which might need to be reviewed in eight years’ time. therefore, it would make more sense to limit its application, as was done in the case of all the other external instruments, and link it to the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. i would like, once again, to thank all of you who have participated, and especially the rapporteur, mr kazak.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all of you who, on behalf of the political groups, have very much supported the main strategic ideas of this report. i am particularly grateful for the support for my wish that the european parliament should retain the important role it has acquired, particularly since the treaty of lisbon, of exercising democratic control over the political decisions taken in the field of trade policy. i think we really have a field in which we can work with the commission and the council to reach a compromise on the use of delegated acts as a concrete option to reconcile the need to speed up the decision-making process for granting macro-financial assistance with that of maintaining that democratic control of the european parliament. i also thank you for your understanding of the role of the european external action service as an additional guarantor of the consistency of these decisions with our common foreign policy and the requirements of respect for democratic principles and human rights. i really think we have a chance to reach an agreement. i believe that if all the institutions approach the requirements with understanding, this macro-financial assistance will really fulfil the role for which it is intended. i call for constructive and successful compromise in the next talks we will have on this issue.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i propose that the final vote on this legislative report be postponed so that negotiations with the council and the commission can begin with a view to reaching a compromise, which is absolutely necessary, since there are currently other legislative reports whose outcome depends on this legislative report. that is why i ask for the support of all the groups to postpone the final vote.
in writing. − equality is one of the core values that we socialists in the ep defend. i supported the report on the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women for equal work or work of equal value because i believe that men and women should be equal not only in law but also in practice to receive equal pay for equal work. this is where one of the most widespread discriminatory practices is found, with women being the most affected - they receive on average 16.4% less than their male colleagues. it is particularly important that we have endorsed the proposal for sanctions for employers who do not comply with the legislation already in place, including administrative fines and the withdrawal of the right to receive state subsidies. for the first time, the idea of having a mechanism to monitor progress in the member states was also supported by a large majority. pay for equal work must be equal not only regardless of gender but also regardless of nationality, ethnicity or other affiliation. i hope that through this report we can contribute to making equality real, not just words.
a question asked by raising a blue card. mr president, madam president, i would like to ask you of course the questions you are asking are of fundamental importance, but do you think that the urgency element in this case is justified? given that we as the european union and azerbaijan participate in many bilateral platforms such as the euronest parliamentary assembly, and azerbaijan is a member of the council of europe, and all these issues have been discussed at length for a long time; do you think that with this resolution we will help to solve these problems?
mr president, human rights and democracy building, particularly in the eu neighbourhood, are of paramount importance. as in other cases, if there are no urgent reasons we should not deal with them through these urgent procedures. certainly, as colleagues pointed out, in the case of azerbaijan there have been setbacks. but what is the urgency now? it seems it is the upcoming eurovision song contest. colleagues express concern that the authorities might clamp down on their opponents after the contest. i fear the azeri authorities will regard this resolution as a stab in the back on the eve of the contest, together with the stab they received from neighbouring iran a day ago. as a result, i am afraid, this resolution will reinforce hardliners. it would be wise to postpone the vote on this resolution and have a special debate in plenary together with commissioner füle. this could be a result-oriented approach, since the azeri authorities, i am sure, will be aware of the present text of this motion. (the speaker agreed to take a blue card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr posselt, yes, i am closely following the events in this country. i read today in the international herald tribune that yesterday a peaceful demonstration of young people against the regime passed through the main streets without permission. there are certain things which have to be discussed very deeply and seriously with the authorities, but what i am saying is that this is not the way. look how many people were here today! this is not the way to deal with a country which is quite important and is in a very strategic neighbourhood area of the union.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, european union-azerbaijan relations are far from having exploited their full potential. to provide for the country’s political association and economic integration with the european union, azerbaijan needs to make significant further efforts to meet the action plan commitments in the field of deep and sustainable democracy, including electoral processes, the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the independence of the judicial system. this assessment is clearly reflected in the enp progress report issued on 15 may. the heavy-handed suppression of a wave of moderate protest actions in march, and in particular of the rally in baku on 2 april, signalled an important setback on the democratisation and human rights front, and signalled non-compliance with the commitments taken towards the eu and in the framework of the council of europe and the osce. at the same time, the eu welcomes the recent release on 16 may of elnur mecidli and hopes for further releases on the occasion of republic day on 28 may. there are frequent reports of violations of property rights, with forced evictions, sometimes against previous court decisions, and without due notification. it remains to be seen how new rules on evictions adopted by the council of ministers on 27 february will be implemented and whether they will improve the situation. many of you have mentioned the eurovision song contest, which offered a window of opportunity for the authorities. the opportunity seems to have been missed. on 16 may, at a conference on media freedom organised by the sing for democracy campaign, the government rejected any criticism but stated that in some individual cases of complaint due investigation is under way. this includes the case of khadija ismaylova, an investigative journalist who was harassed, with an attempt at blackmailing. also on 16 may, during protest actions by the opposition, tens of activists were arrested and later released at a distance of 60 kilometres from baku. the media environment is curtailed by self-imposed censorship, and harassment of journalists is frequent. recent examples include the detention of two journalists in the regional city of quba and the arrest of a number of journalists on charges of spying for iran. there are unfortunately many others. as mentioned, commissioner füle’s visit to baku from 2 to 4 april, on the occasion of the euronest meeting, gave the opportunity to highlight the eu’s growing concerns about human rights at high political level. the eu reiterates the need for azerbaijan to fully respect its commitments in the framework of the council of europe and the eastern partnership. as you know, the eu and azerbaijan have a very substantial and comprehensive bilateral agenda. the main principle on which the eu builds relations with any country is respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. if the former is compromised then our cooperation loses its essence. there is full transparency concerning in what respect and how the eu assesses the human rights situation in any given country and, as i have already mentioned, the enp progress report issued in may reflects this assessment clearly. finally, the full implementation of the european neighbourhood policy action plan is expected. political prisoners should be freed, and freedom of assembly and expression should be guaranteed. the eu calls on azerbaijan to extend an invitation to the special rapporteur of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe for political prisoners.
in writing. – the urgency resolution proposed by several political groups on the human rights situation in azerbaijan is a clear example of the shortcomings in the european parliament’s procedures and approach. respect for human rights is high on the eu agenda in its relations with third countries, especially as regards the immediate neighbourhood. the case of azerbaijan is on the eu radar. the authorities do not deny the problems, they participate in a dialogue and try to address our concerns. i personally believe that the ‘urgency’ procedure is not appropriate to tackle such complex problems, in the presence of a limited number of meps. the only reason i see to rush for such a resolution is the eurovision song contest and the excellent pr opportunity for the ep to gain some visibility. such a superficial approach, however, undermines our consistent strategic policy towards the south caucasus. all those who know more about azerbaijan understand that this resolution will rather do harm to the human rights cause. since we observe certain setbacks in most of the countries in the eastern neighbourhood, as a chair of the euronest delegation of the ep i will ask for a special debate in plenary with catherine ashton and stefan füle.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, the situation on the korean peninsula presents many different concerns and challenges for the international community. these problems – regional tensions, illegal weapons programmes, human rights abuses – are interlinked and all warrant close attention from the eu. following the death of kim jong-il in december and the purported satellite launch in april, the focus in recent months has been heavily on the political succession in the dprk and on regional security issues. however, we should not lose sight of the appalling human rights situation within the country. this is an issue on which the eu has for many years spoken out and played an active role, both at the united nations and in our bilateral dialogue with the dprk government. as the draft resolution reminds us, outside the dprk’s borders in neighbouring countries, there are also human rights concerns which merit our attention. the eu is seriously concerned about the forcible repatriation of north korean asylum seekers and refugees. the eu realises very well that these dprk citizens may face detention, torture and even execution upon their return. for the eu, as a matter of principle, it is important that all countries fulfil their commitments under the 1951 convention relating to the status of refugees and its 1967 protocol. under these texts, adhering countries have specifically obliged themselves to refrain from returning people to their country of origin in cases where they might face the death penalty or torture, an obligation that already exists in general under customary international law. therefore the eu has been raising this issue with china, in particular in the framework of the eu-china human rights dialogue. as you know, china does not recognise the north korean citizens entering its territory as refugees and regards them as economic migrants. we will continue to use every occasion to persuade the chinese authorities to change this assessment. the next round of the human rights dialogue is scheduled for 29 may; this is less than a week from now. the european union, as a global political actor, will continue to follow all aspects of the situation on the peninsula, working in close collaboration with its various strategic partners.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, thank you for this opportunity to speak on our trade relations with japan. what i told the council recently, and would like to reiterate here today, is that we are now confronted with a very important decision on the future of our relations with japan: namely, whether we move towards free trade negotiations with one of our main economic partners or we freeze these relations for several years to come. my view is that, based on the scoping exercise we have just completed, we are now in a position to move ahead with the next steps and should move to open negotiations. the ground has been fully prepared. first, we have an upfront agreement with japan on what both sides expect from the negotiations. this scoping paper which lays out the scope of our potential discussions is the most ambitious that we have agreed in all of our trade negotiations. therefore, we have the comfort that all our priorities will be addressed in future negotiations. second, regulatory barriers are the most important problem for european trade and investment in japan. as a result we have negotiated – again upfront – a dedicated package which addresses the key issues. we have already found satisfactory solutions for barriers in the car, foodstuff and pharmaceutical sectors. for a number of others i will admit that some uncertainty remains. clearly, a failure by japan to deliver on these barriers would have a very negative impact on any negotiations. europe could not conclude an agreement if that were the case. but this political reality should be backed up with legal force and that is why the commission’s proposal for the negotiating directives includes a provision clearly stating that if japan has not delivered on its non-tariff road maps within a year from the start of the negotiations, the negotiations will be stopped. this would oblige us to take stock of the situation one year from the start of the negotiations and, as mentioned, if progress were not satisfactory we would simply call off the discussions. i would also like to highlight another important principle that we have agreed with japan: we have accepted that the phasing-out of tariffs can only take place strictly in parallel with the elimination of regulatory barriers and according to mutually agreed timetables. that means that europe will not commit to dismantling tariffs before japan delivers concrete results on regulatory barriers, including those for the car sector. third, the thorniest issue we faced in our discussions with japan was on public procurement in the railways sector. here i am pleased to say we have secured a good compromise. japan has agreed to take effective measures in the context of the negotiations to open up its railways and urban transport market to eu suppliers. i want to highlight, as i have done before in this house, that trade liberalisation remains the cheapest way we have to stimulate our economy. ninety per cent of world growth will happen in the markets outside the eu in the future. europe needs to be a big player in those markets if we are to return to prosperity. considering its future weight in the world economy, we have a broad strategy for getting better access to asia in particular. this agreement is a key piece in that puzzle. i would ask you to bear that in mind. in the weeks to come the commission intends to submit draft negotiating directives to the council and start discussions on the content of a mandate. so this is a moment to seize and i hope we will have your support.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the new french president, françois hollande, is right: the european union needs jobs and growth. youth unemployment is at record levels, and economic growth is only 1.5%. in the face of the needs of the shrinking internal market of the european union, international trade is becoming a key factor for growth. europe needs larger markets where european producers can export our goods. it needs cheaper products for european importers and consumers, and opening up and providing opportunities for european businesses to make more profitable investments. it is therefore crucial that the european union's trade policy targets those countries where european business can benefit the most. the agreements with colombia, peru and central america cannot revive the union's cyclical economy. what the union really needs are free trade agreements with both the big emerging economies like india and brazil and the global economic giants like the united states and japan. i am therefore, as a representative of the liberals in the european parliament, in favour of the possibility of eventually opening negotiations on a free trade agreement with japan. i believe that europe should not miss the opportunity to strengthen its contacts with japan in all areas, including economic relations with the third world economy. the opportunity to overcome the major obstacles to deepening relations between the european union and japan, linked to the removal of non-tariff restrictions in sectors important to european business (and here colleagues have listed them: automotive, electronics), the reduction of tariffs, as well as progress in the field of public procurement, will bring billions of euros in profits for european companies and will create new jobs that european citizens desperately need. we have to make this move before it's too late. before japan decides that it's not worth the wait anymore and heads east towards the united states and the trans-pacific partnership countries. i understand, of course, that some colleagues and member states are distrustful of japan, which is still unable to meet all the commitments it has made in the study of the possible scope of the negotiations. but i firmly believe that this distrust is more the fruit of pessimism and conservatism. yes, we must not be naive. but at the same time we must not forget that the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement between the european union and japan does not mean, as commissioner de gucht has stressed, that these negotiations must be terminated at any cost. i therefore believe that the commission should now be given a mandate to open negotiations on a free trade agreement, but it should be made clear that if japan does not fulfil its commitments in the automotive sector, and in particular in public procurement, then we will have to stop these negotiations or reconsider our attitude towards their future. but if the european union waits now, if it waits then and waits again and waits again and waits, i think we're going to waste one of the greatest opportunities in our trade policy. and that is why i am calling on my colleagues to do so: i support the view that the european parliament should decide before giving a mandate, but we should not be so conservative and we should give europe a chance to grow.
i would also like to congratulate rapporteur christofer fjellner and the other shadow rapporteurs on the successful outcome of the trilogue with the commission and the council. there are a few things in this regulation that are important to me. firstly, that from now on this system will be applied mainly to those countries which have the greatest need and thus it will become more efficient. secondly, that countries which have a free trade agreement with the european union will be excluded. but here we must make the compromise that in a two-year period those who have started negotiations but have not yet concluded them will be excluded and thus we will encourage them to conduct such negotiations with the european union. thirdly, that this regulation is subject to very strict requirements relating to the conditions for achieving international human rights and sustainable development standards. last but not least, i would like to express my satisfaction with the compromise reached on maintaining parliament's role in using the procedure for delegated acts, thus giving us the opportunity to have a decisive say in the most important decisions. i hope that the commission and the council will also show the same spirit of compromise when they discuss the draft regulation on macrofinancial assistance to third countries, which we are about to discuss.
member of the commission. − mr president, this report comes at the most appropriate time in the process of identifying the future eu cooperation framework, as well as the key issues of our relations with latin american countries. it will serve as an important contribution to the discussions on the proposed external financial instruments and will be an important pillar for the definition of the region’s strategic priorities. in view of this, the commission notes that the main recommendations of the report are closely in line with our current and, in particular, our future views for cooperating with the latin american region. as the rapporteur affirms, latin america is a region of heterogeneous countries of wide diversity. this is also true from a needs perspective. the past decade has seen unprecedented growth levels in the region. many of the middle-income countries now have the necessary means and solid bases from which they can build their national development plans. indeed, we have been approached, on a number of occasions, by various developing countries which expressed the desire to move away from pure poverty alleviation programmes towards a wider development cooperation agenda. this is exactly what we describe in the agenda for change communication and also with the proposed external financial instruments. we need to concentrate the scarce resources available where they are needed most and where they will have the greatest impact. this does imply that the more advanced developing countries would graduate out of bilateral assistance and cooperation. however, this also means that we would engage in a different kind of development relationship with these countries, based on the facilitation of investment projects, for example through blending mechanisms and regional programmes, as well as taking advantage of their experience through trilateral or south-south cooperation. to further underpin the relations with the more advanced countries, we also count on the newly proposed partnership instrument, through which we hope to bring our relations to yet higher and more sophisticated levels. regardless of the differentiation applied in the development cooperation instrument, it is the commission’s intention to commit a significant level of funding to the latin american region under this instrument which, combined with the availability of different external cooperation instruments and programmes, will enable us to define the most appropriate strategy for each individual country in the region in line with the eu’s continued commitment to policy coherence for development, which is also mentioned in the report. as for the process of defining these strategies, the principal priority areas identified by the report are very much in line with those identified in annex iv(b) of the commission proposal on the development cooperation instrument. to conclude, the eu will continue to be actively and significantly engaged in the latin american region. however, our relations with the region are maturing. they have changed from that of donor beneficiary solidarity to one of equal partners. the proposed external financial instruments should give us sufficient flexibility and scope and, at the same time, the necessary concentration and focus to develop effective cooperation strategies with each individual latin american country. in so doing, the eeas and the commission count on a contribution from the european parliament. we are happy to note that the report presented recognises many of the same challenges and priority areas as those identified by us during the preparation of the legislative proposal on the development cooperation instrument.
in writing. – the eu has privileged relations with latin american countries. indeed, not only is the eu the first investor and the first provider of public development aid in the region, the historical and cultural links between the two continents also appear to be extremely solid and reaffirmed from both sides. morover, thanks to a sustainable growth, the continent is only moderately affected by the financial, economic and social crisis and has succeeded significant progresses in terms of democracy. these achievements are narrowing the gaps between the two continents. our continents are thusly bounded and also very complementary. prospects are that latin america will become more and more a strategic partner for the eu. that's why we need to pursue cooperation and development policies with a highlight on industry aspects, insisting on technology exchange on the one hand and raw materials trade agreements on the hand. this type collaboration would solve a big parts of both continent's structural problems. it is crucial that the eu does not cultivate the subordinate role of latin america, and manages to make this industrial partnership a priority in the framework of a more relevant type of cooperation.
rapporteur. − mr president, the european union relies very heavily on the development of the new technologies economy, which is based on the internet. but we have to be absolutely clear that neither the digital agenda goals nor new developments like cloud computing can be developed without having a trustworthy and resilient internet environment. therefore, the issues relating to internet security and cyber-security are of the utmost importance if we want to develop the whole infrastructure. i would like to congratulate the commission and commissioner kroes personally for the fact that in the last few months there has been very intensive work in preparing the cyber-security or internet security strategy and in creating a european critical emergency response team and a european information-sharing and alert system, to be active by 2013. the european commission has already proposed a cybercrime centre within europol, which has now been created and which is an important element, but has not done everything that needs to be done. so there are developments, but what is very much missing is a framework at european level. we have excellent examples of cyber-security activities and very good results at national level, but things are very uneven. in the various member states we have very different practices, and what is very much lacking is european-level action. in terms of the internet, we can be absolutely sure that no robust and resilient system at national level can be enough without devising and developing european capabilities. in the report – and i would like to very much thank my colleagues and the shadow rapporteurs and everybody who was involved in this report – we give several recommendations for the further work of the european commission. first, and most important, is to include information and communication technologies in the critical infrastructures, together with all the mechanisms that are related to that; the commission has to propose the inclusion of ict as a critical infrastructure. second, we are calling for the creation of common minimum standards and minimum protocols for the reaction and resilience of the internet system. third, something which is very important is cooperation with the private sector and public-private partnerships, but this also has to go in the direction of data breach notification. whoever is attacked has to be informed; the public has the right to know what is happening in that respect. of course, we are calling for the elaboration of contingency plans at national level, contact points at national and also at european level, and the development of awareness and education activities, which are very important for cyber-security. something which is very important is international cooperation, and i would like to finish with that. there are many things that could be done at european level in terms of international cooperation on cyber-security and i really hope that they are going to be done by the european commission and by the high representative. these include: contacts with like-minded countries; having an active europe-wide position on cyber-security; raising issues at international fora including the g8, g20, oecd, etc.; including cyber-security issues when we discuss development aid and our cooperation with developing countries, and including these issues where appropriate in signing trade agreements. all these are files for the european commission's in-tray, so that europe has a very active international position relating to its cyber-security. we have already started very good cooperation with the united states. this has to be continued with other countries, and europe has to have a single voice on cyber-security.
in writing. − i voted for the report by edith herzog, for greater consistency and coherence in the eu's external relations in the field of energy, for strategic and political coordination between member states in negotiations with powerful third-country energy suppliers. i support the union's strong and unified voice in external energy relations, which allows the interests of european consumers and the competitiveness of our economy to be protected. a well-connected internal market is needed that can stand together against external pressure, against attempts to use energy supply and prices as a tool for political pressure. diversification of supply means better energy security, but only if it is accompanied by competition between supply sources, including an increase in the share of liquefied gas. it is necessary to strengthen competition in the internal gas market and to decouple the price of gas from oil prices, which hampers the normal functioning of the gas market and is a factor in maintaining an artificially high price of natural gas. i welcome the establishment of a mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental agreements with third countries in the field of energy and the role of the commission's opinions on these agreements, which will ensure equal compliance with european internal energy market legislation.
madam president, madam ashton, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, on his excellent work, which sums up perfectly the challenges of creating such a post and the strict conditions that must accompany it. the appointment of a special representative is the logical continuation, on the one hand, of one of the legal pillars of our institutions, in particular articles 21 and 33 of the treaty, and, on the other hand, of the great step forward which the union's accession to the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms has represented. the european parliament will also be voting on this report as a chance to have a say in the activities of the special representative and thus in part of the union's new foreign policy. i hope that the role of the union and that of parliament will also be strengthened in the future. but the importance of this position lies less in the creation of the post, which must be filled by a person of integrity, qualified, dynamic and willing, than in the political message that will be sent to all third countries. this message is addressed to several levels. on the one hand, the union's international commitment to the promotion of human rights and democracy will be strengthened and made concrete. the shared responsibility of the union and the member states for the protection and promotion of these rights is reinforced as it will be embodied by the special representative. the common security policy and the common foreign policy are becoming more coherent, effective and visible. the union's role as a promoter of human rights is also strengthened. in conclusion, i would like to stress that this post should not be a mere position of honour or another empty shell but rather a powerful mandate aimed at moving towards a freer world where the dignity of all human beings is respected and where human rights and fundamental freedoms are guaranteed.
mr president, madam high representative, the entire international community is watching the events in syria, which are now spreading beyond the country’s borders and affecting its neighbours. i would like to join my colleagues in firmly condemning the repeated bombings and attacks which have been responsible for the death of thousands of civilians, and in denouncing the attitude of the syrian authorities. dialogue, pressure or sanctions have shown their limits and proved unable to put an end to the unacceptable acts committed in syria. we all know that only concerted action within the framework of the united nations can lead to a solution in syria. we all know which countries are so far blocking any conclusion or demands for action at union level – namely russia and china. madam high representative, i would therefore ask one question: could you present us, in detail, with your views and approach towards china and russia when it comes to the situation in syria and, more generally, concerning the latest developments in the middle east?
in writing. the situation in syria and its regional and global implications are extremely complex, on several levels. firstly, our duty to respond to the atrocities the assad regime is inflicting on its own people is at odds with the need for an international political strategy of joint external action and with the general will to exhaust all possibilities for a peaceful resolution. secondly, in the face of the human tragedy, thousands of people have fled the country, which represents a significant pressure on neighbouring countries and requires urgent humanitarian aid. thirdly, syria's place in the regional arena is crucial to the security situation in the middle east, especially for israel, which is facing a growing extremist and anti-israel threat on its borders. finally, the rise of religious extremism and the strengthening of fundamentalist terrorist groups represent a global threat which cannot be ignored. the eu must be proactive and support mr annan's efforts in every way, but it must also draw the 'red line' and encourage all international partners to take the necessary measures, including military intervention, if mr assad persists in his barbaric ways.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, honourable members, the democratic republic of congo is a country that demonstrates the importance of the eu engagement being long term, if it is to be productive, and where – over time – we can make a difference. i want to focus my remarks on two issues: the democratic follow-up after the november 2011 elections and the security and humanitarian situation in eastern congo. the drc is a fragile state and a very young democracy. it is still recovering from years of war and deprivation. the road to recovery and stabilisation is not straightforward, but we are determined to persevere in supporting the drc in consolidating its democracy and accelerating its development. the 2006 elections were a milestone in their progress towards a more democratic future, but were achieved with huge support from the international community. the 2011 elections, by contrast, were primarily funded and organised by the drc itself. the challenges remained great, the execution may not have been perfect, but this is an achievement that we should recognise. we continue to provide support for the electoral process through a contribution of eur 47.5 million and by sending an eu electoral observation mission. i want to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the commitment and hard work of that mission, led by honourable member mariya nedelcheva. they carried out the work in extremely difficult circumstances and a final report has been well received by everyone in the drc. they highlighted the fact that the scale of irregularities and fraud weakened, if not undermined, the credibility of the outcome, and that there was a need for significant reforms and improvements in the future. nevertheless, in present circumstances, all stakeholders have recognised that it would be impossible to recount the votes or organise a new round of elections. so, our priority is to follow up the valuable recommendations for future reforms that are in the report. this will be an important element of our dialogue between the eu and the drc government. in the short term, we expect to see significant improvements for the provincial and local elections that will follow in the coming years. therefore, we want to engage more closely with the government to ensure that we improve the democratic process and the country’s governance. i am encouraged by the recent appointment of mr ponyo matata as prime minister and the new ministers that will work with him. he has worked closely with the eu in the past and he has a good record as finance minister of the previous government and as a national authorising officer of the european development fund. the commitments he made in his inaugural speech are particularly encouraging and they open the prospect for a political dialogue and progress in improved governance. our head of delegation has already met several ministers of the new government and is beginning to work closely with them. initial impressions are very positive. but of course we want action, not just commitments. we have significant development assistance, which we want to use and we want to use it as productively as possible in facing the challenges of the future. secondly, over the past three years, the situation in the eastern congo has improved. but it is still extremely fragile and, as recent events have shown, there remains a risk of sliding back into war and disorder. our priority is to work together with our international partners and with the governments of the region to try and prevent this from happening. the mutiny by some elements in the congolese armed forces – effectively, former rebels returning to the bush – has caused renewed fighting in the kivus. i am appalled by, and strongly condemn, the recent mass killings by several armed groups. one consequence of this has been a sharp increase in the number of internally displaced people in the last few months. we now have over two million people. our humanitarian assistance already amounts to eur 63 million in this year but, clearly, the humanitarian crisis is not over. we are committed to the unity and sovereignty of the drc. we condemn the rebellion and strongly support the restoration of the authority of the state, and that needs to take into account the legitimate concerns of the drc’s neighbours. in that context, i am worried about recent reports of developments that might put at risk the positive regional dynamic between the drc and rwanda, and weaken their cooperation. that has been so important to underpin the progress in eastern congo in recent years. clear messages have been passed to all in order to encourage a constructive approach in these circumstances, and we recall the need for all illegal armed groups to lay down their weapons and avoid further violence. regional cooperation is essential, too, to tackle a number of the problems of the great lakes region, including the illegal exploitation of natural resources – conflict minerals – and the provision of improved energy supplies for all. we support the activities of monusco in the drc and we welcome the renewal of their mandate at the end of june. the protection of civilians in the east will remain an important mission for them in the coming years. but there will be no sustainable peace without the rule of law and the application of justice. this is why i welcome and support the arrest warrant launched by the prosecutor against general ntaganda. this is a clear sign that impunity will not prevail and, i hope, sends a signal of hope for the people who are suffering at the hands of the armed groups. our contribution to the reconstruction of the judicial system is an integral part of the wider campaign against gender-based violence in the drc. everyone should know that these crimes can and will be punished. but our programme aims equally to tackle the root causes as well as the symptoms of this problem. we have supported action to keep the drc on the agenda of the human rights council and to encourage the government to cooperate with that council. security sector reform, too, continues to be crucial. we are contributing through the operation of two missions: eusec, which supports military restructuring, and eupol helping to reform the police. i look forward to continuing to contribute to it through the most appropriate instruments, taking into account the un’s peacekeeping mission’s future mandate. but we can only have success on security sector reform with the commitment of the drc at all levels. in conclusion, i want to reiterate that the eu is committed for the long term to supporting the drc and the great lakes region to escape the conflicts of the past and build a sustainable, more prosperous and peaceful future. it is the people of the drc we are determined to help, and to do so through a comprehensive approach that tackles the many interlinked problems that they face. we will persevere.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mrs ashton, what you have just said is encouraging and i thank you for it, but let us return to the elections. before i begin, i would like to pay tribute once again to the congolese people, who mobilized massively for the presidential and legislative elections in november 2011, proving to the entire international community and their authorities how committed they are to the construction of a genuine democracy in the democratic republic of congo. the eu election observation mission, which i had the honour of leading, presented its final report on 29 march. one of the congolese authorities' reactions was to say that the eu had merely "broken an open door". i therefore assume that it was also thanks to these 'open doors' that the eu mission was able to observe the irregularities and the violence which unfortunately characterized much of this election. but the recommendations we have now made are about fundamental reforms. they are achievable and consistent. it is necessary to put them in place as soon as possible, because the question is not only that the next elections take place, but, above all, that they take place in good conditions. to this end, it is necessary to consider the restructuring of ceni. congolese citizens deserve an independent ceni that respects an electoral calendar and the electoral law, that manages the election budget in a transparent manner and that is respectful of all stakeholders in the electoral process. the establishment of a constitutional court and the transparent management of electoral litigation would go a long way towards increasing citizens' trust in their own institutions, as well as ours. the establishment of a political dialogue involving all political parties and civil society, and based on responsible behaviour on the part of all, is necessary to work towards the democratic, economic and social development of the country. respect for fundamental freedoms and human rights, the fight against impunity and ensuring the safety of all remain challenges. the union must therefore continue to assume its responsibilities and put the emphasis on monitoring. it is important that the congolese authorities and citizens know that they can count on us, but we must also be firm in our positions. mrs ashton, do not be afraid to put forward the principle of conditionality. the congolese people, like the people of europe, support you. they'll be grateful. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, it makes absolutely no sense to talk about growth if we do not create the instruments for growth. the european union budget is one of the strongest instruments for providing growth in europe. this is not like the national budgets. this is not just another tax burden for the citizens. the eu budget is not just another item of expenditure in national budgets. it is small but it is efficient. it creates economies of scale, it creates economies of scope and it can direct investments at european level at very targeted goals. the eu budget is currently 44 times less than national budgets in europe. it costs every european citizen a coffee per day. that is the cost of europe to european citizens. at the same time, it has decreased over the last 20 years by 20 % in relative terms, whereas national budgets have increased in recent years. in 2011, 23 out of 27 countries increased their national budgets. in 2012, 24 out of 27 countries increased their national budgets. so i would argue that, if anything, europe is becoming weaker because the eu budget is becoming weaker and national budgets are becoming stronger. this is what has happened in recent years. the european union budget goes back to the member states. ninety-four percent of the eu budget goes back to the member states. for example, i have met a polish minister who said that for every one euro invested in cohesion policy, nearly 70 cents go back to the old member states, to the contributors. from the investments made in cohesion between 2000 and 2006, we have 0.7 % growth in europe and that might reach 4 % later on. so when we speak about the eu budget, this is not a budget which is spent badly. by the way, mr callanan, the european court of auditors said that the uk is one of the examples with the highest error rate in spending eu money. this is not a reason to decrease the eu budget. you have to fix the systems in the united kingdom. when we speak about own resources, this means that we have to decrease national contributions. that would help the consolidation of the national budgets so we would very much insist on what … (the president cut off the speaker)(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i have already mentioned that the court of auditors says that the error rate – or the fraud, in other words – occurs in several countries, including the uk. however, this is not the fault of the eu budget, it is the fault of the national systems. and if that is indeed the image of the eu budget in the uk, then it is a pity. (applause)
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to express my gratitude to my colleagues, the fictitious rapporteurs, for the help and cooperation they have been willing to provide in the preparation of the report on the geographical extension of the mandate of the european bank for reconstruction and development to the countries of the southern and eastern mediterranean. i believe that when society expresses its desire for democracy, especially as the countries of the southern and eastern mediterranean have done, politicians are supposed to listen to the voice of the people. ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the european union is going through an economic crisis, but whoever has the right to criticize has also the obligation to help. i would urge all my colleagues to be very vigilant about the freedoms in certain member states, such as bulgaria, so that we do not feel ashamed when we criticize the regimes in totalitarian countries.
madam president, i too voted in favour of the gauzes report for one reason only. so far, we have practically a double standard for countries that are members of the euro area and those countries that are members and do not use the euro, in terms of imposing the excessive deficit requirements on their budgets, because the commission, under the procedure for admitting new countries to the euro area, has the possibility to sanction countries that still use their national currencies, whereas this was not the case for countries that have already adopted the euro. and it turns out that those of us who are still outside the eurozone are champions of financial discipline, and the troubled countries that emerged, that now have to borrow, ended up inside the eurozone. i therefore supported this report, with the idea of eliminating this double standard between the one and the other, and i hope that we will continue to work in this way in the future.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report for exactly the same reasons as those i explained earlier in the gaussian report, namely to remove the double standard between member states. at the same time, however, i would like to say that i support what was said this morning by the chairman of the conservative group, mr callanan, that the member states, or at least their governments, at least their peoples, should be able to express their views: whether they want to continue to participate in the euro single currency scheme or whether they would prefer to return to their national currencies and there with more flexible policies to look for other ways of solving their problems. this right of european citizens, the citizens of each member state, must be guaranteed and no country should be pressed to remain in the euro area at any cost. when its citizens decide to do so, it should be left free to leave the euro area and pursue an independent financial policy.
madam president, when we discussed the multiannual financial framework earlier, here in this chamber, the commission said to us that it would make those who were responsible for the financial crisis pay for bringing it on the european peoples. that was stated and it was promised that it would be done through the financial transaction tax, which i support. at the same time, we see in this resolution, which is still at a very early stage, the intention to introduce a new vat at european level. vat, however, is levied mainly... its burden falls on the most ordinary little people, those with the least opportunities. that is, we have been discussing financial transactions for years and suddenly it turns out, however, that own funds will not fall back on the backs of those who brought about the crisis, but will fall back on the backs of the ordinary european taxpayer. but since these two things (the one i support and the other i strongly oppose: the introduction of vat) were together, i abstained on this report.
in writing. i welcome the vote on this resolution because the european parliament expresses its wish for the union to be proactive in the peaceful resolution of the tensions between sudan and south sudan. we have powerful instruments of external action in our hands and it is our duty to mobilise all these forces to ensure a peaceful resolution of this conflict. the resolution focuses on the immediate cessation of hostilities, the activation of the joint border verification and control mechanism and the dispatch of international observers, the building of a comprehensive political dialogue between the two sides and the condemnation of all acts of human rights violations especially in the regions of abyei, south kordofan and blue nile. it is precisely on these issues that the union can make a difference, and thus prove its effectiveness in responding to crises, both in terms of prevention and political assistance to conflict resolution, but also in terms of monitoring. we must have the courage to put our texts and declarations into practice.
in writing. as head of mission of the eu-emo, i am pleased that a resolution was voted in this house because the european parliament must affirm its support for the implementation of the recommendations made by the eu-emo. the resolution had two aims. the eu calls on the congolese authorities to implement the recommendations of the eu-emo to reform the electoral process in the drc and ensure its transparency, credibility and reliability, especially for the forthcoming provincial and local elections. the eu eom recommendations concern substantive, feasible and coherent reforms of the electoral system and they must be implemented as soon as possible. because the question is not whether the elections are held but whether they are held in good conditions. on the other hand, they involve and empower all the key actors in the congolese electoral process to mobilize so that the system is reformed and the democratic construction is real. i hope that in the next elections we will be able to observe a transparent and credible electoral process, supported by all the political parties and by congolese civil society, which will finally contribute to the democratic, economic and social development of the country.
mr president, i would like to take the floor on what mrs andersdotter has just said about competition between member states, not between companies individually. this is quite natural to me, because the countries in the european union are very different from each other, mainly because of the fact that companies in mr lehne's country, germany, for example, are much more familiar with the provisions of european company law than companies in bulgaria, for example, which has only been a member of the european union for five years. therefore, when talking about a common european framework for european company law, one must also look at specific specificities in newer member states, which cannot be as competitive as a founding country, for example. and when new changes are sought, new regulation, great care must be taken not to allow companies in a new member state to be stifled by this law and to give more opportunities to companies from an old member state that have the relevant know-how to operate in the field of company law. i therefore recommend that the commission take account of the national characteristics of individual member states and not engage in full liberalisation, although, of course, in order to really achieve economic growth, it is necessary to give companies more freedom, rather than putting additional limits on them.
on behalf of the alde group. dear commissioner, dear president, dear colleagues, it took us a long time to finally agree on the more ambitious seveso iii directive. but overall we can now be satisfied with what we have been able to achieve in the agreement at first reading under the danish presidency. the tragic experience of major industrial accidents in the last few decades, such as in bhopal, india, in 1984 and toulouse, france, in 2001, has shown the urgent need to revise and update european union legislation on this issue. although the council was not as ambitious as parliament on the issues of the scope of the directive and on public access to information and justice, we were able to defend the need for higher standards of access to information, including online information. we also managed to reach an agreement on the issue of the release of certain substances to be governed by the co-decision procedure rather than by delegated acts. the commission also notes that the measure is not imputable to the state, but to the state as a whole. the final report brought important improvements in terms of the scope of the directive and the provisions for the release of substances, although i personally regret that we were not able to go further in terms of the requirements for access to information and for inspections of establishments. overall, we can be pleased that this new and improved directive reinforces some important proposals relating to the protection of health and the environment, transparency of information and the rights of european citizens to access information. i would like to thank my colleague jános áder for the excellent work he has done on the directive.
member of the commission. − mr president, in line with the principle of better regulation, the commission proposal concerning foods for infants and young children, and foods for special medical purposes seeks to simplify current legislation by removing rules that have become unnecessary or sometimes contradictory. the protection of vulnerable groups of the population is one of the key objectives of the proposal we are discussing here today. but before turning to the substance of the proposal i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, ms ries, for preparing the report, and also the shadow rapporteurs. i should also mention the input from other committees – the committees on internal market and consumer protection (imco) and on industry, research and energy (itre). the commission is pleased with the general line taken, as regards the proposed amendments. the proposal would abolish the concept of dietetic food – a concept that is today considered outdated given the evolution of the food market over the past decade. i am pleased to see that honourable members openly agree with this approach and recognise the need to fundamentally revise the existing legislation. the scope of the proposed draft regulation would be limited to a number of well-known categories of foods intended for vulnerable groups of the population, namely infants and young children, and people that need products for the dietary management of conditions under medical supervision. some of the proposed amendments suggest adding slimming foods intended to replace the total daily diet to the scope of the regulation. although i believe that these foods could be managed comprehensively under the horizontal rules of food law, i understand parliament’s concerns and i am open to considering their inclusion within the scope of the proposal. however, my support cannot extend to the inclusion of gluten-free foods within the scope of the regulation. this, in our view, is unnecessary and would be in line neither with the interest of coeliacs, for whom these products are intended, nor with the principles of better regulation and simplification. we all agree on the importance of maintaining the existing rules on such foods. but this can be ensured in a simpler and better way by transferring these rules to the recently adopted regulation on food information to consumers. in addition, such a transfer would guarantee that the existing rules would also apply to non-prepacked foods and would consequently offer higher and broader protection to coeliacs. several amendments have been made as regards labelling provisions and restricted use of pesticides in baby foods. i can tell you that i share the same views as parliament as regards protecting infants and young children, and i can agree in principle with the suggestions made. however, i believe that the details to give effect to these principles should be dealt with in the specific delegated acts. i also support the same positive approach concerning the preparation of reports on sports foods and growing-up milks. on the other hand, i cannot support the amendments regarding the establishment and update of the union list of substances by delegated acts instead of implementing acts. the commission’s proposal is in accordance with the treaty of lisbon and the commission guidelines on delegated acts. this approach should not be changed. regarding advertising, enabling member states to apply further restrictions to all foods for infants and young children, without distinction, would be disproportionate to the objectives of the draft regulation and can have an impact on the good functioning of the internal market. as you can see, there is much more that unites us than divides us and i remain confident that discussions both in parliament and council will lead to a good final text at second reading. i look forward to having your views.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. − mr president, there are a number of benefits that this legislation will offer. firstly, it will protect consumers more efficiently by better informing them on specific food products. labelling should be clear, easy to understand and should not make medical claims – in this regard, for example, the notion of dietetic foods is no longer appropriate as there have not been explicit criteria up until now to define particular food as dietetic. secondly, it is absolutely imperative to provide a high level of consumer protection for vulnerable groups. for instance, we have to ensure that milks intended for infants and young children are strictly regulated with regard to their content. thorough research is needed to find out to what extent these milks really contribute to the growth and health of children. moreover, the proposed simplification of the existing legal framework will contribute to the better functioning of the internal market. it will reduce the administrative burden on companies, increase transparency and further stimulate free movement of goods. i hope that we will all support the balanced proposal, which will provide optimal protection for consumers’ health. my congratulations to the rapporteur and all colleagues in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) with whom we had very good cooperation on this dossier.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let me start by congratulating my colleague frédérique ries on her report and for the great work accomplished in bringing forward the solid compromises on the commission proposal aimed at ensuring a high level of consumer protection in relation to foods for infants and young children, and foods for special medical purposes. i believe that parliament’s position today makes a significant contribution to, and strengthens, this initial objective. i especially welcome the fact that substitute meals replacing all or part of a person’s daily food intake continue to be the subject of specific legislation, thus ensuring stricter control over the composition of such food and safeguarding the consumer interest when it comes to health and nutrition claims. growing-up milk and milk intended for young children was a key point of our discussion in committee, and still is today, ahead of the vote in plenary. it will probably not be possible to address all the issues at stake through this piece of legislation alone, and i therefore very much welcome the inclusion of a request to the commission to further assess the status of these products and to evaluate the need for specific legislation, notably for milks intended for children aged between 12 and 36 months. it is in the interests of all consumers, in the interests of children and their mothers, to ensure strict and safe composition rules, but also to guarantee the highest level of accuracy. therefore, when it comes to communication on these products, the health of infants and children comes first and should take precedence over the interests of production and marketing.
in writing. i welcome the vote on the joint resolution on female genital mutilation. today the european parliament is making a strong political commitment to combat violence against women, and in particular to end female genital mutilation. this practice is a violation of all fundamental rights and cannot be justified by tradition, culture or belief. the union and the member states have a duty to promote the application of binding legislative measures, both within our borders and in third countries, which aim to prohibit this practice and protect and support the victims and all girls and women at risk of being subjected to it. legislation must be accompanied by strong and uncompromising judicial instruments so that the perpetrators of these crimes are brought to justice and punished. i call on the commission, the member states, the united nations and all other members of the international community to show real commitment to the promotion of women's rights, gender equality, the fight against violence against women and women's empowerment.
mr president, we all know that rail is one of the most efficient, cheap and environmentally friendly forms of transport. i would like to agree with the previous speaker that liberalization will not be a useful thing for me. i very much regret that the commission has not supported the attempts of the bulgarian government to keep the bulgarian state railways precisely state-owned, from where they will be able to develop more easily. i think that the tens and now a large part of the transport they carry out must be privatised. but also, considering that i am one of the youngest members of this parliament, i would like to share with you a dream of mine. here today, most of our colleagues from the farthest reaches of the union have travelled seven or eight hours, including inefficient and polluting air transport, to get here to strasbourg to sit. my big dream is to look from now on into the future and see the new super-efficient technology that can be powered by renewable energy sources, namely magnetic levitation technology, and to look into a future where along the north, east, west and south axes, european citizens will be able to travel safely by rail transport, highly efficient, highly environmentally friendly and at the speed that airplanes offer. this is my dream.
in writing. – as water is undeniably our most valuable resource, insuring the protection of water ecosystems is the most important environmental challenge of our time. water plays a crucial part in regulating the earth climate, it insures food safety and security, and it provides a huge amount of wealth to our economies, societies and cultures. but as the world is slowly becoming aware that our current ways of life are not sustainable, it also realises this resource is critically at risk. much often, the threat is pollution for european waters versus scarcity in third countries which is another reason why the eu should set the example by not taking its water for granted. the 2000 water framework directive sets ambitious goals for 2015 in this sense but many recent european studies show it's unlikely they will be reached. economic growth can and needs to be decoupled from any type of environmental harm to water. let's not wait until we make a belated observation on our incapacities to protect our most precious good. the upcoming revision of the wfd will be the opportunity to rapidly boost awareness and binding actions in favour of an integrated regional and global water management.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament and in particular the committee on transport and tourism and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the rapporteurs, ms sehnalová and mr koch for their work on producing this excellent report on ecall. ecall is one of the six priority actions of the its (intelligent transport systems) directive and will contribute decisively to improving effectiveness and speed of rescue. the introduction of a harmonised eu-wide interoperable ecall service based on 112 in europe is a high priority of the commission and we have been working for some years to bring it to all vehicles in europe. i welcome the firm support from parliament expressed in the report that you are going to vote on tomorrow. following the adoption of the recommendation to mobile network operators in september 2011, two other legislative measures are in preparation with the aim of having the service operational in 2015. the proposal for a regulation under the vehicle type-approval legislation – for the in-vehicle part – is currently being drafted and will be submitted to the european parliament and the council in the coming months. the specifications for the upgrading of the emergency call response centres, to be adopted by the commission in the framework of the its directive, are almost finalised with the help of experts from all around europe. the commission is organising the last meeting with experts tomorrow. the report calls for mandatory implementation and paves the way towards the harmonised deployment of the ecall service based on 112. this is a clear sign to all interested parties. we believe that the mandatory implementation of ecall will make the cost affordable to all parties thanks to economies of scale and make the benefits available not only to all citizens in europe but also to european industry. we will make all efforts to ensure that the necessary elements of ecall are operational by the time of implementing the mandatory use of ecall. as suggested by the report, the commission will also support awareness and education campaigns to ensure that ecall is properly used. we will keep promoting the openness of the ecall platform and make sure that customer choice and fair competition are guaranteed. i would like to thank again the european parliament for its continued support for the deployment of ecall in order to make our roads safer. together we will bring ecall to our citizens in order to save precious lives.
in writing. i thank my colleagues from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the committee on transport and tourism for initiating the draft report on the regulatory introduction of the ecall in-car emergency call system. the e-call system will enable emergency teams to arrive as quickly as possible at the scene of an accident and provide first aid to the injured. this in turn will increase the chance of survival and reduce the number of fatalities and serious injuries in road accidents. this system would have a tremendously positive effect on travelers. it is estimated that the technology could help save up to 2,500 lives a year. the costs of installing the necessary equipment are estimated to be minimal. the introduction of this technology is necessary for the safety and security of citizens. i therefore welcome the resolution and am glad that it has the support of the majority of my colleagues. i also hope that the commission and the member states will take the appropriate measures to ensure the widespread introduction of ecall within the time limits so that we can better guarantee the health and safety of european citizens.
mr president, i would like to thank and congratulate the danish presidency, and particularly minister wammen, for dealing with the difficult and delicate matter of the multiannual financial framework. i know that there are many controversies among member states but what happened during the danish presidency was a streamlining of the debate, creating a good basis for future understanding and agreement, and putting on the table some of the very important issues for parliament, such as that of own resources, which has been thoroughly discussed for the first time. i would like to see further results here and i am optimistic that we can move ahead on that issue. i would also like to express my warm thanks for the very good interinstitutional cooperation with the council during the danish presidency – including giving parliament for the first time the opportunity to speak at the general affairs council and present its views on the multiannual financial framework – and for the very good support from the danish presidency for the council conclusions. i think that what the danish presidency has achieved is a good basis for agreement on the mff in the future.
madam chairman, honourable colleagues, honourable commissioner, on june 21st the international trade commission voted a recommendation to reject acta, which was strongly supported by myself and all the liberals on that committee. it thus became clear that dignity, freedom of information, privacy and the protection of personal data and freedom of expression are not empty phrases but are recognised as fundamental rights in the union which should be fully respected in order to strike a balance with the right to protection of intellectual property. we support the creation of a modern social pact, based on a sectoral approach, with separate agreements, each focusing on specific types of intellectual property rights. i am convinced that more transparency should also be ensured in the negotiation process. i therefore call on the commission to come forward in good time with new initiatives in this direction, which ensure a balance between civil rights and the right to protection of intellectual property.
mr president, commissioner, i would remind you that during the industrial revolution in england, the madmen broke down their machines because they were afraid of destroying jobs. today we should not be in a situation where we restrict the internet, which brings the new technological revolution, because we don't know that we have to comply with it in all aspects. of course, the legislation that works in the real world also applies to the online environment. of course, it must also adapt to her. but this should not be done by limiting his development. i'm against asta for two reasons. the first is because it makes isps responsible for content. it's going to make the internet much more difficult to access, much more expensive, and in the hands of two democratic governments, it could become a dangerous weapon. secondly, because asta will not solve the intellectual property issues. they are being addressed in a very different way, including by changing business models.
in writing. no one can deny the need for an international agreement binding the maximum number of countries to respect intellectual property rights. the eu is a world leader in innovation, patents, scientific development. for our continent, which is lacking in natural resources, the successful protection of this type of property is crucial to the well-being of all europeans. however, i will not hesitate to vote against the asta because the agreement failed in the most important thing - it failed to resolve the conflict between the protection of intellectual property and civil liberties. this is the deepest reason why unprecedented civil discontent has erupted. the numerous discussions have precisely specified the disputed areas, creating the possibility of abuse. it is sufficient to mention two of them - first, the lack of a precise definition of the key concept of commercial scale as a ground for prosecution and, second, the possibility of isps being forced to monitor the behaviour of their customers - a danger explicitly confirmed by the european data protection supervisor. two vivid illustrations of the failure of asta. i am convinced that whenever the ep is faced with such a conflict, it will always stand on the side of fundamental rights and freedoms. and by a huge majority, which i expect to see in this chamber tomorrow and which i will join.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work. this file is indicative of a few things. first, as far as the european commission is concerned, it is the institution that shapes the policies of the european union; it is the institution that makes the initial proposals, and we all know how important they are; it is the one that distributes the payments. i would therefore urge the european commission to take account of the new member states. i want her to be more ambitious in her actions. we must achieve a truly fair common agricultural policy. secondly, i would like to draw attention to the council member states themselves. they are the ones who can most easily identify the needs of farmers in individual countries; they are the ones who make the national position. so i want to call for even more cooperation from them. they are a very important part of the decision-making process, even if they are not present in the plenary. i want them to know that their position matters to us. finally, it is up to us in the european parliament to take account of the interests of all, horizontally and vertically: from those of the ordinary farmer to those of the european union as a whole. i hope that in other reports on cap reform, compromise, equity and fairness will be the guiding principles, as in this report. congratulations again.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr christofias on the clear and ambitious agenda and bold statement regarding the need for growth, and solidarity with the poorest citizens of our union. we can assure you that the european socialists will back all your efforts to achieve these goals. i also thank you for your support for membership of the schengen area for bulgaria and romania, something which is very important to us. i see a certain symbolism in the cyprus presidency. at the centre of eu policy will be a country which in geographical terms is possibly the furthest away, at the periphery of the european union. a second issue is that one of the smallest member states will lead the union of 500 million. i think this shows the unique nature of our union, and it should be used in the next six months to show our citizens what we achieved with one of the last enlargements of the european union. i think there is another issue. your proximity to the southern mediterranean will once again underline the need for support for the countries in that region – support for the development of their democracies, their economies and their social development, which is key to the success of our approach towards them. there is one more issue. a divided country should unite the eu member states behind the multiannual budget, which has to pave the way to the future: no small ambition. finally, mr christofias, let us do our best to achieve a successful enlargement in the next multiannual framework, and i hope constructive negotiations will be held on the instrument for pre-accession.
i want to say to the more than 15 000 bulgarian european citizens who wrote to me about asta, that i, like my colleagues from the socialist and democratic group in the european parliament, voted against this anti-counterfeiting agreement. i want to be clear: intellectual property and copyright must be protected. but this cannot be done at the expense of restricting freedom on the internet - the only place where everyone is equal. i am pleased that from day one the bulgarian socialist party and the party of european socialists have taken a clear stance against asta. the european right has once again shown how little it cares about the voice of the citizens and how divided it is on this key issue. i am amazed at the european commission's persistence in continuing to defend the aeca, despite the clear position of the european parliament against it and despite the largest pan-european protests in dozens of european cities. gentlemen, a.s.t.a. is dead. admit your own mistakes in the negotiations and start over, this time the right way.
mr. chairman, as a representative of the bulgarian national democratic party i voted against the adoption of the a.s.t.a. and of course, this was dictated by the fact that in practice our citizens rose up en masse, expressed their protest and unwillingness for this agreement to come into force. but it's also because of the way the proposal itself was actually negotiated: secretly, behind closed doors, without enough information. in fact, what can be concluded is that the united states tried to impose an american police state in europe. but the european citizens rose up against this, and thank god their reaction has affected our decision today. what really worries me the most, however, is: if our citizens had not taken to the streets, would all of our colleagues who are now speaking out against the adoption of this agreement have the same opinion? we should take these matters more seriously, not follow everything the commission tells us, because that is why we were elected: to control the commission and to be on the spot at all times, not just when there is public discontent.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i want a more balanced bilateral cooperation between the european union and russia, whereas at the multilateral level russia has achieved a variable-geometry liberalisation in some sectors. russia has committed itself to liberalizing its trade regime as part of its accession to the wto. this agreement underlines the scope of its commitments which will not only improve the situation of russian consumers, who will benefit from a better service offering, but also create additional business opportunities for european companies, exporters and investors currently working with russia. i therefore welcome the fact that the european parliament has adopted this report.
in writing − if you have following the recent accession of russia to the world trade organisation, it is necessary to establish a new legal framework governing eu-russia relations on the maintenance of the commitments on trade in services contained in the cooperation and partnership agreement. russia is one of the world's largest economies, a country full of new opportunities and challenges. therefore, i believe that mutual bilateral agreements will not only contribute to the linking of the eu and russian economies, but will also ensure balanced economic growth of both parties. the liberalisation of trade in services was one of the conditions of russia's accession process to the wto. i therefore strongly believe that deepening eu-russia cooperation will help improve the perception of foreign service providers and facilitate access to the russian market for european businesses. what is particularly important is that the russian federation will also benefit from this cooperation. however, the agreement must be concluded on the basis of common interests and an awareness of mutual rights and obligations. the creation of such a stable business environment through the new eu-russia cooperation and partnership agreement will help to secure further additional concessions. compared to a multilateral system, the rights of european service providers should be clearly affirmed on the basis of a bilateral agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 73/2009 as regards the application of direct payments to farmers for 2013 because it is a step forward towards achieving the eu's main agricultural objective, namely a flexible, fair and competitive common agricultural policy. i consider that regulation (ec) no 73/2009 should continue to be the basis for granting income support to farmers in calendar year 2013 in view of the new support schemes to be applied from 1 january 2014. it contributes to strengthening the eu's agricultural policy, ensuring continuity in the levels of direct payments and at the same time achieving a smooth transition from the currently applied direct payment system to the reformed and uniformly applied direct payment system. although this is a technical report which does not concern all member states, i believe that its importance lies precisely in the fact that we have been able to protect the interests of some of the smallest and newest member states. i hope that in other reports on cap reform, compromise, equity and fairness will be the guiding principles, as in this report.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, i am very grateful to parliament for having organised this joint debate on the two reports by ms alexandra thein concerning the proposed amendments to the statute of the court of justice and the draft regulation relating to temporary judges of the civil service tribunal. let me begin by extending my thanks to the rapporteur for her constructive and positive approach to these negotiations. i would also like to pay tribute to the danish presidency which was instrumental in ensuring swift progress within the council as well as the discussion between the two institutions. the good cooperation between the council and parliament on these important dossiers has led to a rapid agreement at first reading. this is an important issue indeed. the aim of these two proposals is to increase the efficiency of the work of the court of justice as a whole and in particular to allow it to address the increasing volume of cases and accumulated backlog. this is important if we are to ensure legal certainty and reliability. i am, of course, fully aware that further work is needed on one important issue. this concerns an increase in the number of judges of the general court. however, both our institutions are ready to work to ensure that appropriate measures are in place to address this issue by september 2013. let me now turn now to the various elements of the compromise package on which you will be voting tomorrow. the statute amendments will introduce measures to improve efficiency in the work of the three courts which make up the court of justice of the european union. over recent years the court has undergone significant changes in both the volume and the nature of litigation. this is due both to developments in eu law in a range of policy areas and to the enlargement of the european union. the measures contained in this legislation will enable the court to cope better with the increasing volume of litigation and improve the efficiency of its work. i would like to draw attention to three elements in particular: firstly, the establishment of the post of vice-president in both the court of justice and the general court who will assist the presidents of each court in their responsibilities; secondly, the modification of the composition of the grand chamber of the court; and thirdly, the possibility of attaching temporary judges to the civil service tribunal in order to cover for the absence of judges prevented from participating in judicial business for health reasons. as for the other elements of the proposal related to the increase in the number of judges at the general court, i can assure you that the council is fully aware of the need to address this issue urgently. nevertheless it is a matter of some sensitivity within the council. the cyprus presidency is determined to find a solution, but we would need to do so in a way which takes full account of the full range of views within the council. i am pleased that we can look forward to the adoption of the two proposals which are the subject of our debate this afternoon. i look forward to continuing the excellent cooperation with the parliament on the outstanding elements of the court’s proposal and i am certain that we can reach an early and acceptable solution.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her constructive approach to the proposals of the court of justice. the commission regrets that a decision on additional judges at the general court is postponed. the backlog of cases at the general court remains a source of concern. however, we welcome the compromise reached today by the institutions on all the other elements of the reform. the commission is pleased to see that most of the changes it suggested in its opinion in september 2011 have been taken on board by parliament and the council. we also take note of parliament’s intention to hold a debate in the near future on the merits of introducing the possibility of issuing dissenting opinions at the court of justice. we have some reservation vis-à-vis the introduction of such a system at the court, but we will of course participate constructively in all the discussions.
mr president, what i can say about the proposed reform is that i will remain skeptical of it for the following reasons. to appoint additional substitute judges because the permanent judges are too often sick, excuse me, but to me it smells of rigging and abuse of rights. why is it that these main judges get sick so often that additional judges have to be appointed? and on the question of the enlargement of the general court, let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the judges of the european court of justice are the most expensive paid employees in the entire european union. moreover, each member state has one judge, and this is not some misunderstood nationalism, but is due to the need to have a specialist who knows the relevant national law. the increase of 12 means that the burden on some of the judges (those who remain only one per member state) will increase in contrast to the others. for me, to sum up what i said about being the most expensive paid, an increase can only be linked in this crisis situation to a general reduction in salaries at the court so that the bill is equal in the end.
mr president, i do not think that such debates show any kind of mistrust to any country. i think this debate is necessary. nobody can deny the fact that georgia was making good progress in many areas. it was an encouraging and exemplary development. georgia’s members of parliament play a very active and constructive role in the work of the euronest parliamentary assembly that i have the honour to chair. but i have stated on many occasions that the real test for the eastern partners of the european union are the elections. they show how stable and sustainable the democracy is and they show the maturity of the political system. i ask my colleagues not to exaggerate, but also not to downplay, the recent developments in georgia. my impression is that a political war is under way and both sides are making full use of the weapons that they possess. on one side, that of the ruling parties, they have the administrative and legal resources, while on the other side they have financial resources. if you listen to the explanations from both sides on the situation of georgia you would think that it is about two completely different countries. this already signals a problem. this situation has to stop and the political process should be brought back to normal. i ask the council and the commission to use all their powers to help georgia. there are different means available and possible. you know them best; just use them now. if you want to help georgia in holding free and fair elections, the time is now and not on the day of the elections.
mr president, from the very beginning we knew that the egyptian transition would be a long one with ups and downs. we have many reasons to be worried about egypt: the institutional uncertainty, the economic and social crisis, the continued control by the military, and the strong support for islamist parties, moderate and less moderate. despite all the difficulties, the presidential elections were organised and held in an acceptable way. they showed that secular and moderate democratic forces have a majority in egypt. the only problem was that they were divided among several candidates, and i think they have learned their lessons. the new president morsi appears to be a reliable person who understands the enormous responsibility to keep the nation united, to protect minorities and to secure the peaceful continuation of the transition process in egypt. i ask that we give him a chance, that we recognise that he is an element of stability in the country, and that we do our best to encourage his first promising steps. now we have to concentrate on the next parliamentary elections, to try to support the liberal and secular parties in order to avoid a new crushing victory by the islamists, especially their salafist branch. the other task we have is to increase the pressure on the supreme council of the armed forces so that they prepare their exit from power. power should be in the hands of the people, and that should be the task we have to achieve together: the council, the commission, our new revised neighbourhood policy should be directed in support of this transition for the social and economic development of the country, and we should not be distracted by the fact that the president of the country now represents the muslim brotherhood. we have to judge him and any political party in power by its deeds and not by our expectations, the political background and their history.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the rio conference, like all the previous conferences and meetings, has shown one drawback: negotiations are generally unproductive. what europe needs, our partners must also need. negotiations must therefore have a concrete purpose and a tangible, rather than an abstract, benefit for the parties involved. the objectives, industrial and economic orientation, the problems of each country and europe's willingness to help solve them must therefore be known. this is why we need to connect with european science, with the best of the best and with innovation, which can be a good springboard to success. european science and industry have such solutions. let the efforts be collective, not individual, though exceptional, like commissioner potočnik, whom i congratulate on his efforts. let's set up a unit to anticipate and finalize everything in detail for the next meeting. we must succeed if europe is to remain a leader.
in writing. i support this resolution because it condemns the crackdown by the lukashenka regime against the citizens of belarus. in recent months, the belarusian authorities have taken increasingly restrictive measures against human and civil rights defenders in belarus, against journalists, opposition leaders and representatives of civil society, including prosecutions and arrests. freedom of speech is one of the fundamental civil liberties guaranteed by the constitution of belarus, and its restriction under any pretext is inadmissible in a state of law. belarus' democratic path is towards cooperation with the eu within the framework of the eastern partnership. unfortunately, this cooperation has been hampered by lukashenko's policy of repression and censorship. i hope the president will choose the path of reform and dialogue with the eu so that we can work together for a democratic transition in belarus. the forthcoming parliamentary elections and the assessment of international observers will play a decisive role in this regard. it is important not only that citizens can freely exercise their right to vote on election day, but also that the election campaign gives equal opportunities to all candidates. only free and fair parliamentary elections will allow us to invite the democratically elected representatives of the belarusian citizens to take part fully in the euronest parliamentary assembly.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, on behalf of the commission i wish to thank the european parliament and mr gustafsson, in particular, for the report on the role of women in the green economy. my thanks also go to the committee on women’s rights and gender equality for their views and contributions to this debate. empowering women and preserving their rights is indeed both an intrinsic sustainable development goal and a means to achieve the green economy we aim for. the importance of gender equality and women’s empowerment is essential in key areas, such as food security and nutrition, sustainable agriculture, water and sanitation, energy and education. the discussion of this topic is particularly timely as we now turn to the rio+20 follow-up. as you know, the issue of gender played an important role there. much has been said about the outcome of rio+20; some have summarised it as less than we hoped but more than we expected. this also applies to gender issues. on the positive side the eu has achieved references to gender equality and women’s empowerment, which is a step beyond johannesburg. these elements are now reaffirmed as central to sustainable development and the outcome document when laying down our common vision and our renewed political commitment. we have also achieved a dedicated section on gender equality and the empowerment of women with key political messages on a range of areas. but i would like to focus on another positive side, which is sometimes overlooked in relation to rio+20 but has been central to the eu position and to the solutions of parliament: the mainstreaming of the gender perspective in a range of chapters in the outcome document. this applies to the need for gender-sensitive indicators and to poverty eradication as well as to the means of implementation, including finance, technology and capacity building. rio agreed on the need to empower rural women in order to enhance agricultural and rural development, food security and nutrition. this is part of the importance attached in rio+20 to help small producers – often women – access credit, markets, land tenure, health care, social services, education, training and technologies. introducing the gender perspective in the areas relevant to the green economy will be important for an effective follow-up to rio+20. the commission will take this into account when developing its follow-up actions on rio. the efforts for the transition to an inclusive green economy are just starting at eu and international level. the call by the european parliament to ensure mainstreaming of gender equality and women’s empowerment is well-founded and it has been reflected in the rio outcome document. the commission is looking forward to further cooperation with parliament, including the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on this important challenge.
in writing. – our countries are currently going through the most severe economic crisis of our experience and some see it as an opportunity for a transition towards a green economy. indeed, as our resources are becoming more and more scarce and there are doubts about the sustainability of our way of life, the european regulator needs to question and correct one of the ongoing system’s most striking deficiencies: the inequality between women and men on both the economical and environmental level. it appears nowadays that, on the one hand, women pollute less than men for various reasons, such as the fact they eat less meat, they drive less, and they consume less because their salaries are lower and because they have less time for leisure and energy-consuming activities. on the other hand, horizontal segregation contributes to women being as under-represented in qualified jobs as over-represented in unqualified jobs. the fact there are no women candidates for the ecb board is a good illustration of this situation: is there no woman in the eu fitting the requirements to acquire even candidate status for this board? i am glad the eu is underlining these paradoxes, as the measures we are taking today to ensure our economic growth will be decisive in shaping tomorrow’s green and equal society.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, let me start by congratulating linda mcavan on a successful leadership on this dossier and by praising the work accomplished by the danish presidency, the commission and all political groups in making possible a prompt and necessary agreement on such a crucial issue. less than two years after the case in france, we shall review the remaining gaps and loopholes in our european pharmacovigilance framework. all the european institutions and stakeholders are demonstrating today that when patient safety is at stake, actions can be taken swiftly and effectively. the alde group welcomes the agreement, which will be put to the vote tomorrow, upgrading our new framework adopted in 2010 with a clear focus on transparency, efficiency, follow-up mechanisms and the reinforcement of the monitoring of drugs placed on the market but subject to post-authorisation studies. i particularly welcome two key elements of the future provisions to be implemented: the obligation for companies to communicate the reasons for withdrawing a product from the market and the automatic trigger of the emergency procedure when this decision is taken due to safety concerns. we must indeed keep in mind that, in addition to guaranteeing the highest level of patient safety, the good functioning of our pharmacovigilance system is also a tool to reinforce european citizens’ confidence and understanding of the medicines they are taking. as decision-makers, we have a public health responsibility, which we are taking today in ensuring the efficiency of our system and adapting it when necessary. to conclude, i would like to mention the need to provide sufficient resources for the european medicines agency to assume effectively its new missions. i understood that the commission is already working on this issue and i hope it will come up with the relevant proposal without undue delay.
in writing mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy efficiency directive is one of the most important pieces of eu legislation, expected to create more than a million jobs in the member states and save tens of billions of euros in energy supplies. energy efficiency, widely recognised as the cheapest alternative to solving the union's energy problems, is finally entering european legislation with binding measures and targets, with a first reading consensus achieved in just one year. this underlines its extreme importance and widespread support. i welcome the compromises reached for more flexibility for member states in implementing measures and their financing, thus ensuring that the best solutions are found, including in crisis conditions, to achieve energy saving objectives. without this flexibility, there would be no agreement from governments and political forces. an important element is the energy efficiency requirements in public procurement. but here we have to be careful, because there is a potential danger that we will pay for the most expensive energy efficiency solutions if we downplay the final price criterion of public procurement. a real success for energy efficiency will be a change in people's behaviour and attitudes towards wasteful energy use. this directive is helping to bring about change. i congratulate the rapporteur and all those who worked on this dossier on a job well done.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy − mr. president, i would like to begin by warmly thanking the chair of the committee on foreign affairs, the rapporteur, elmar brok, for his impressive and comprehensive report. it is a really important contribution with a great number of good suggestions that we can certainly use as we build the foundations of the common foreign and security policy and as we build the foundations of the new service. i have always believed that this parliament – and members of this parliament – have a critical role in ensuring that we have an effective and democratic eu foreign, security and defence policy. i also believe – and have always believed – that, in this increasingly challenging economic environment, it makes even more sense for member states to work together. that holds true for large member states as well as small ones. when you look at the important issues that we face – let me take just two or three: iran and its nuclear programme, the middle east peace process and the crisis in syria – we are stronger and more effective when we work together. we are seeking to build the best possible service that will meet the needs of europe and the needs of europe’s citizens. we are attracting some of the best talent from member states and at the same time we have harnessed the tremendous depth of knowledge and expertise that staff from the institutions bring. i pay tribute to all of them. the external action service (eeas) is fast becoming a centre of excellence and a source of ideas, policy and analysis, and our network of delegations across the world is the greatest asset we have. i have been able to open new delegations in libya and south sudan and an office in burma/myanmar, an office that i would like to upgrade. we need to develop this network. we are, for example, massively under-represented in the gulf states. what makes us different from member states is that we work in a different way. in fact, i would argue that we work in a way that is unique to the european union. when you look at all the crises that we face, when you look at all the situations in which we are operating, they are multi-faceted, complex and particular. in none of them is there a simple one-size-fits-all solution – political, military or economic. the great strength of the european union, working with member states and with our international partners, is the range of diplomatic tools at our disposal. by mobilising them all in an appropriate way we can be more effective in preventing crisis and conflict and swifter in helping to resolve them. to develop that comprehensive approach we need three things. we need to clearly define our strategy, bearing in mind our own interests; we have to have effective coordination of what we do; and we need swift delivery by the european union, its member states and the network that we have overseas. let me consider two brief examples. as honourable members know, in august i went to mogadishu and was also in mombasa and nairobi. you know very well the challenges of the region. i am very pleased that we have the new president elected in circumstances of calm. our team in mogadishu, our special representative, were there throughout the process. just before this debate i spoke to the former president sheikh sharif, and to the new president hassan sheikh mohamud to congratulate them on the outcome and to tell them that we would remain with them. they asked me to tell you that they are very grateful for the 22 years that we have worked to try to support the people of somalia and that they look to us to stay with them. when we talk to the politicians in mogadishu and in the region, we talk about a range of different activities in which we are involved: tackling piracy; enabling the world food programme to safely deliver its aid; bringing peace and stability to the region; supporting democracy and human rights; helping trade to flourish; building infrastructure; helping to fight terrorism and engaging in support for the peace processes and mediation. as a result of the work of operation atalanta, supported at this point by 11 member states working together, with ships, planes, helicopters and logistical support at headquarters, working and linking with other countries operating in the region, successful piracy attacks have dropped from 65 in 2010 to just five so far this year. those who are involved in atalanta – and i visited the french flagship lafayette while i was there – are the first to say that they can tackle the symptoms of the problem at sea but we have to find ways to tackle the issues on the land. we have two other missions operating: the training of soldiers to help support the security situation around mogadishu and beyond – i met the amazon force commander who talked about the needs he has as he tries to drive forward and bring peace and security – and the operation that will help with maritime security, helping other countries to keep their shoreline and the seas free from piracy, especially important to countries like kenya who have seen piracy now turn into kidnapping people from the shore. i went to this mission with both admirals and the colonel in charge of those missions, but i also went with those involved in development and in the humanitarian exercise to work in a coherent and comprehensive way. when i met with the politicians, who were just about to start the elections for their new government, we talked about the range of different ways in which we are involved and the fundamental needs of development. as the amisom forces move forward they need help to dig wells and to provide for the people in communities who have suffered 20 years of war. they need help in supporting the move away from crisis, for peace building and mediation. i recall the very brave woman in charge of the electoral commission who talked about the need to help them build peace and to build that coordination, to engage the women of somalia in doing that, building a government. i raised the european union flag. it flies in mogadishu above a very basic place that we have there – no more than a tin roof and tin walls, and yet it provides meeting rooms and beds and places for our delegation to be able to be active every day. this is one example, and it is an important symbol of that comprehensive approach that we work together right across the commission services – right through to the provision of our military knowledge and expertise. another example is through the task forces that we have built in supporting countries going through transition. as mr brok has said, the economic challenges are great and, for those countries facing transition, they are immense. we are helping to support the political process where people are allowed the democracy they yearned for and that they sought and we need to link that with the capacity to help support them economically with the jobs of the future and the security for their families that will make the difference. in the task forces we have brought together people who represent a range of support. members of this parliament came with us and have engaged with these new parliamentarians. these are people who, even a few weeks before the elections, were registering their political parties for the first time, people who have never worked out how you build a coalition or indeed how you build a political party that has roots that go deep, and people who need to understand the institutional side of democracy and to work, not just for one election but for all the elections to come. i pay tribute to all the members of this parliament who have engaged with people across the world in doing that. by bringing together, on the one hand, the resources from the commission that can support long-term development, the instruments for stability, all of these assets that we have, and, on the other hand, those of our partners – the european investment bank, the european bank for reconstruction and development, the africa bank, the world bank, all of the institutions who are able to put grants and loans at the disposal of those who need to build sometimes the most basic of infrastructure – and by coordination through our special representatives, our delegation and our services on the ground, we are able to translate that into a day when people come together and have business leaders from across the european union willing to commit, to engage and invest in those countries. it means we translate and leverage the resources that we have, translate the several hundred million euros we have available into billions of euros – for jordan eur 3 billion and for tunisia eur 4 billion – over the three years and make a significant difference to the lives of people. i think in taking that approach it is where, as i have said, we offer something unique. it translates into how we support those countries that are trying to deal with real challenges at the present time of transition, not just in our southern neighbourhood but also the challenges that exist to our east. as you know we have been working closely in the western balkans, in bosnia, to try to build this comprehensive approach on the ground. we are working with many countries who are engaged in bosnia and herzegovina and with all the leaders who need to try to push forward the government. when i recently met the leadership in serbia and kosovo, prime minister thaci, president nikolić and prime minister dačić, i said that i would engage myself in driving forward this dialogue. however, they need to commit to really wanting to find ways through that will help to support the people whose lives are made difficult every day by the ongoing tensions and challenges of that area. i will meet with them again in new york to try to push forward on that subject. supporting the process of change also in tunisia, egypt, libya, yemen and other countries in the middle east and north africa requires our continued support and our continued willingness to address the different challenges. on thursday, president morsi will arrive in brussels for his first visit. the new president of egypt was invited by me when i went to see him in july. he will meet with me and the presidents to discuss the developments in his country and his role and work in the wider region. we will prepare for him the same kind of injection of economic and political support for the future but we do not just wait for those moments. in egypt in july we provided two million rural egyptian women with identity cards because without an identity card you cannot get healthcare or open a bank account and you are not recognised as an individual. for those women something that is very simple and very straightforward was beyond their capacity to be able to do. we have to be in action all the time and to be in support of the people of the country – and i would argue, in the countries in transition, to be especially aware of the role of women. we will talk more about syria later but i of course remain appalled by the violence and human rights violations which have occurred there. when i spoke with mr brahimi, the new representative, i offered him the full support of the european union, including from the delegation we still have on the ground. in my discussions with countries immediately affected surrounding syria we have also offered them additional support. you will have seen an additional eur 50 million being given this weekend. we also remain committed on the middle east peace process. the goal is a just and lasting two-state solution. we need to make sure that we continue to move forward and recognise the additional challenges that are faced at the moment by prime minister fayed and the palestinian authority in financial terms. i spoke with him yesterday and we will work together, along with the ahlc and the norwegian foreign minister, to secure additional support in new york to try to make sure that the work that has been done, and which is well recognised by israel as well as by the world bank and countries of the region and beyond, is not allowed to fail. of course we also need to understand the needs of israel – its deep concern for its security and its worries at the present time. so we have to continue to try and find a way through that will bring security for both, but in my view it is increasingly urgent. i also mention, in the spirit of that region, the work that we do on iran. i am very grateful for what mr brok said about my role as leader of the negotiations. i have spent 48 hours in direct negotiation and i spent an additional 18 hours in bilateral negotiations. i spoke with dr jalili, my counterpart, a couple of weeks ago to urge on him the need to make progress and to keep moving on the diplomatic track. the e3+3 will meet during the general assembly and we are having further contacts. but at the same time, as the report reminds us, we must not neglect the broader agenda including human rights and regional security. if we look to our east again – and i have mentioned serbia, kosovo and what is happening in bosnia and herzegovina – we have to continue to monitor the situation in belarus, where the situation on human rights and democracy worries me a great deal. we have a policy of critical engagement and, with our measures, we continue to target those responsible for the crackdown and those associated with it. at the same time, we continue to engage with the people, with civil society and opposition. in ukraine, where helga schmid, the political director, is meeting today with the opposition parties, we want to see progress on three issues: selective justice, the conduct of free and fair parliamentary elections on 28 october, and the resumption of the delayed reforms in the joint eu-ukraine association agenda. when i look at that part of the world, i am pleased to see what is happening in moldova. moving dynamically within our broader eastern partnership we will also remain actively engaged in the 5+2 talks on the question of resolving the issues in transnistria. but we of course look at the region and consider too the issues of elections that are moving towards us, especially in georgia. i met recently with president saakashvili and we have sent messages to the opposition. we are very clear that we need a good election process and we need to make sure that it is run well. we will have observers there and we will have political support to ensure that the future of georgia is assured. we are also always continuing in our efforts in our relationships with armenia and azerbaijan. i visited both in the last few months and i have to say that i deeply regretted the recent decision to pardon safarov, which went against commitments made by azerbaijan and which has fuelled tensions in the region. i have expressed, together with commissioner füle, our concern. we have been following up on this and our special representative is currently in the region. i know parliament will debate this on thursday. as i have indicated to you, much of what we do is in partnership. we work in close consultation and cooperation with the united states in our areas of common interest, especially the western balkans, the southern neighbourhood, and in the asia-pacific, where we met recently with the asean countries and where secretary clinton and i held a bilateral meeting on the issues of that region. we remain in touch with the state department on a daily basis. i am also going to speak later on about russia so i will not say anything further about russia in this debate in order that we can have a bigger debate later and save time. but of course it is critically important that we engage with the people of russia and that we ensure that we have strong relationships. when i went to china recently we moved forward in trying to develop the dialogue that we have on global and regional issues. we have agreed a regular dialogue on defence and security policies and we have agreed to strengthen our cooperation on combating piracy. i have already said that, on the work that we do on iran, we work closely with the e3+3 and china is a key partner in this, as it is also – as i have indicated – on the fight against piracy. but as our relationship with china strengthens, we need to emphasise the importance of universal values and freedoms. during my nine hours of discussion with state councillor dai bingguo, my counterpart, we had a very long discussion and debate on human rights. i brought that into the dialogue that i had with him as well as the dialogue that we had on human rights as a separate discussion. also with india, we have agreed to hold annual foreign policy consultations where we have a security dialogue, we work together in a joint working group on counter-terrorism and where we cooperate on anti-piracy and cyber-security issues. we have strengthened that relationship dramatically in the last year but of course i continue to try to support a solution, working with the italian government, for the two marines on trial in india. our cooperation with our other strategic partners goes on – canada, brazil, mexico, south africa, japan and south korea. countries like mexico and brazil play an important role in promoting open markets in their region and following the political crisis in paraguay. in my visits to brazil, india and south africa i have promoted the idea of working together on development and international issues, using the common interests and values that we share, but i have to say that we have more to do on this. of the three i most recently visited south africa, and i want to say a word on the recent events. while i was in pretoria i was able to offer condolences on behalf of the european union for the loss of life at the marikana mine. our thoughts are with the families affected at this terrible time. i had the opportunity to discuss this in great detail with both the foreign minister and the defence minister. i think the south african authorities have taken the necessary steps now to establish the circumstances that led to these tragic events, through a full judicial commission of inquiry and an inter-ministerial committee to provide assistance and support to the families of those who were killed. it would be wrong to speculate and try to anticipate the findings of the commission, but it is important to examine the root causes as well as the circumstances of these events and, as mr brok’s report says, not to neglect the broader issues in our discussions with south africa and the region. there is much more that we can do to work closely with regional organisations – organisations like the arab league, the african union, asean, the organisation of islamic cooperation – and of course with the united nations, both in its broader role and its role in the regions. we have worked together closely on the future of libya with the united nations, the african union, the arab league, the organisation of islamic cooperation – an idea that came from me to the secretary-general – and we worked very closely with organisations, especially the arab league on syria. we have done very practical things to foster this cooperation with the arab league. for example we have equipped their crisis room at their headquarters in cairo which i will be proud to visit and open in november. when we look at all the different geographical areas of the world, we also have to remember that many of the challenges of the world are what we call horizontal – the potential for crisis and conflict because of energy or climate change or water are very real. last week at the gymnich i took the opportunity to talk again with foreign ministers about some of these issues. we specifically focused on water and education. it was because i recognised that, when we think about the middle east peace process, water is a final status issue. when we think about what is happening in central asia there are real difficulties concerning water. the sahel, the nile basin and the arabian peninsula are all areas where water plays an incredibly vital role in the potential for conflict and we need to be engaged with that. i have said a lot about what we try to do and how we try to do it, but of course what really matters is why. we do this to promote and protect human rights and democracy as the guiding principle of our foreign policy. we exist to serve our citizens, to help them be more secure, more able to pursue the lives they want, to give them the right environment and hopefully prosperity and to help others obtain what we have. i have reported many times the young man in libya who said, ‘we want what you have every day. you have democracy and freedom’. let me end with a quick word on our interinstitutional relations. i think we have strengthened the relationships between this parliament, the institutions, our senior eeas officials, myself and others, and that we have tried to respond as quickly and as positively as we can to all requests. i think our information to the committee on foreign affairs and to the committee on development is better. the reports and resolutions that are in the parliament are taken into account. thank you for the idea of the eusr on human rights. i was very pleased to appoint stavros lambrinidis to that role. thank you for the role that you play in electoral observation missions which are held up across the world as true examples of a way to work with countries and to help support those looking to the future. i am convinced that we can do more and as we build towards the 2013 review of the decision, i hope that we will be able to show, not only what we have achieved, but also to give some pointers for what more we need to do. thank you to the european parliament for the support that you have given the service and to me over this last year. i would like to say a special thank you to mr brok for his excellent report.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on budgets. - ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the committee on budgets on the common foreign and security policy, i would like to support the precise and clear position of elmar brok. the european union really needs priorities and strategic guidelines for the development of its foreign policy. and as foreign policy spending is often cut at the expense of the union's internal policies, it is clear that we must do more with less and seek maximum benefit and efficiency from spending. my own experience shows that this can be done in a number of ways. first, by finding synergies between european civil, diplomatic, military and development tools. secondly, by better planning of civil and military operations under the umbrella of the european union and thirdly, by targeting financial flows to ensure the irreversibility of the positive results achieved. ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that the european parliament also shares the view that a more effective europe can only be achieved in terms of a common foreign and security policy through convincing and common action by us.
i am sorry that mr le pen left the chamber, because i would have told him that either he had not read the package of reform proposals or he was acting biased after saying that they were working against the fishermen. on the contrary, it is one of the most awaited reforms in community policy, fisheries and maritime policy. i would like to thank commissioner demanachi and all the rapporteurs in particular for the enormous work that has been done. the reform allows parliament to influence the fisheries sector by developing new, adequate standards and rules for fisheries in europe. if our decisions are correct, we will have allies in the fishermen, on whom the sustainable fisheries and the ecological balance of the seas depend to a large extent. i come from bulgaria, a country on the black sea that has serious problems with marine conservation and fishing. the fishermen are still waiting for our solutions, they are hoping for policies that will guarantee their livelihood, that will guarantee their income and jobs, so we must not forget the social element.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am pleased and honoured to open this debate tonight presenting the agreement reached with the council on the directive establishing minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. for the first time since the adoption of the lisbon treaty and the extension of its competences in this field, the european union is about to adopt a europe-wide law on the protection of citizens’ fundamental rights. our debate tonight, on a symbolic date for victims in the world and especially for victims of terrorism, is proof for even the most sceptical that the european union is concerned with more than just the single market or budgetary control. today, the european union is delivering for its citizens and their rights. the agreement, which will be put to the vote tomorrow, is the result of long and sometimes difficult negotiations with member states and the commission. it has always been guided by one main principle: the interest of the victim and the support they need in getting through a process which can be particularly difficult for them. the commission has rightly initiated this timely piece of legislation which will now guarantee to all victims of crime across europe the same basic rights in criminal proceedings irrespective of where the crime took place and of the victim’s residence status. the future directive is also closing identified gaps in protection for victims, particularly those exposed to discrimination and victimisation such as children, victims of gender-based violence or victims of organised crime. parliament has stood firm on strengthening a needs-based approach in order to provide basic and tailored support for all victims, in particular victims who are most at risk of repeated or further victimisation. a major change in the future is that all victims will now undergo an individual assessment in order to identify potential specific needs, notably based on their personal characteristics and the circumstances of the crime. another key element of the agreement are procedural rights such as the right to be heard, the right to receive information about their case including the time and place of the trial and the nature of the charges, the right of appeal and of access to victim support services, which have been significantly improved with the setting of minimum eu standards. as rapporteur for the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, i am obviously pleased to see in this legislation provisions aimed at protecting and supporting victims of gender-based violence and victims of violence in close relationships, an issue which has been neglected or ignored for too long in our national systems. i would like to add that from a more procedural point of view, the cooperation between the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on women’s rights has proven successful and has allowed parliament to stand firm on its position to address the needs of all victims. i must therefore conclude by thanking my colleague and co-rapporteur teresa jiménez-becerril barrio for her exceptional and fruitful cooperation on this dossier. i would also like to thank all shadow rapporteurs who have been actively and positively contributing to our work over the past months. the agreement reached today would not exist without the courageous initiative launched by the commission and its active support in reaching compromises during the negotiations. i would also like to thank commissioner reding, her staff and acknowledge their excellence. we must also recognise the leading role of the danish presidency of the eu in making a consensus possible among member states. it has been very successful and has given a positive outcome. i am hopeful and look forward to your questions and positive support.
the commission's vice-president - the mr president, as is often the case, we are speaking and discussing the most important aspects of our european policy in front of a relatively empty amphitheatre. i do not know whether you realise, dear members of parliament who are here tonight, that you are participating in a historic moment, because tonight we have broken a wall: the wall of indifference to the people who need us most, the politicians. i will not make a tearful speech, but i will simply say that this day will be remembered for many years to come as the starting point of a new policy of the european union, a policy centred on the citizens, centred on human beings. i would like to thank in particular the two rapporteurs, who have done a magnificent job and have done a good job for the future of european citizens in their area of justice. i'd like to congratulate you. thank you very much. this directive is about minimum rights for victims, so member states can of course go a step further if they wish. but those member states that do not have such provisions must guarantee the human beings of europe and by human beings of europe i mean not only the citizens of europe, but also all people, regardless of their residence status, who happen to be in europe a minimum basis to address the very specific needs they have as victims. we now have to ensure that all member states implement these provisions. as i said in my introduction, the commission, with its experts, will help member states to do this. once they have been implemented, the commission, as always, will be responsible, as guardian of the treaty, for the proper enforcement of the directive in real terms. that also means that we need to provide training for the police and justice practitioners, as well as awareness-raising to ensure that victims know their rights. we will also require the help of the victims' organizations. such initiatives are today financed from different programmes, including the daphne programme. in future they will be financed under the justice and citizens' rights programmes. i thank the european parliament today for all the efforts it will make to help ensure that the council does not reduce funding in these areas. we all agree that this is a first step, but it is a very important step because we have broken through this wall of indifference. we have opened the way so that the next steps can be taken.
rapporteur. − mr president, despite the fact that the room is not very full, i should say that i am absolutely proud and satisfied that all colleagues supported our report. i am very proud to have had the opportunity to be a rapporteur on behalf of the women’s rights and gender equality (femm) committee. i would like to thank the presidency for the trust it placed in the femm committee in our joint work on rule 51 with the civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) committee. we have proven that we can significantly contribute to improving the legislation. commissioner, you will have a major role in the next three years in monitoring and reporting on, and transposition and implementation of, this directive. this will continue for the five years following implementation, since an assessment report has be drawn up and any loopholes need to be identified with a view to improving this legislation. i am absolutely sure that all the organisations that we work with will be watching us very closely. today is a day to be proud, and tomorrow will probably be even better after the vote. the next years will be crucial; we have to prove that this legislation can work. you have a crucial role, and we trust you that you will be able to deliver on this trust. i would like to single out for special praise the contribution of our colleagues ms griesbeck and mr kirkhope on the children’s package. they made a significant contribution to strengthening protection of the rights of child victims. the chair of the femm committee and all the femm committee shadow rapporteurs also made a significant contribution towards the gender package. mr gustafsson and all the shadows from femm committee, your staff members, commissioner, and, especially, the european women’s lobby, all helped prepare a very good package on gender issues. finally, i would like to thank all the ‘invisible’ people. these are our staff members, the secretariat of the femm and libe committees, the policy advisers, our assistants and all the professionals from the presidency and the commission. thank you to those ‘invisible’ people who had a great opportunity to support us to prepare such a good quality report.
mrs reding, please go to commissioner cholos, who wrote the long speech you read to us, and tell him to stop playing games with us, because these games are the jobs of thousands of people, and if they are lost, it means hunger, misery and poverty for tens of thousands more people in the european union. you can't come in here and say that things have gotten better because they're market-driven, where half the industry is put under protectionism while the other half of the industry is crushed. that's not a market principle. on the contrary, it is precisely because there is no market principle that my colleagues and i are here today, and only the style and emotion of this debate, which we are holding at 11.30 p.m., can show you how important it really is. that's because there's no market principle. you came here to ask the questions to the commission. so stop playing games with us, take this seriously, because two months ago we were 30, now we're 60, count to tomorrow. (the speaker agreed to answer one question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. this is a problem that starts at the southernmost border of the european union and goes to its northernmost border. and there are 4,500 jobs at stake, a few people from each family. that's tens of thousands of people who make a living in this industry.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, this debate has shown that there is a split between beet growers on the one hand and refiners of imported cane sugar on the other. the former, following the 2005 reform, made the necessary, sometimes painful, adjustments and became much more competitive. the ones who complain today are the ones who have these adjustments still ahead of them. but they should be competitive because those are the rules we have agreed on and by 'we' i mean the commission, parliament and the council. the commission will take all necessary measures to ensure that the european union is supplied with sufficient supplies. in 2005, imports amounted to 2,3 million tonnes; today, they range from 2.5 to 3.1 million tonnes.
in writing. it is a fact that as a result of the reforms carried out since 2007, my country bulgaria has almost ceased to produce sugar and has become an importer of raw sugar, which is refined and a small part is exported, the rest is for domestic consumption. the country has a national quota for isoglucose production only, our sugar beet quota is closed. six approved 'permanent refineries' of raw cane sugar and one isoglucose producer are operating on the territory of bulgaria. bulgarian sugar refineries are operating at low capacity levels because they do not have enough raw sugar for refining due to low levels of raw material imports from third countries benefiting from preferential agreements. sugar and sugar products production decreased between 2005 and 2011, while the prices of manufactured products, including refined sugar, increased. given the restrictions on the maximum price of sugar for export, producers derive their profits mainly from the surplus price of sugar for domestic consumption. i therefore believe that a review of the mechanisms for managing sugar production is necessary, a balanced approach to combining the three production models in a competitive environment. i congratulate my colleagues on their activism and join them in their quest for greater fairness in the eu sugar sector.
mr. barroso, congratulations on your ambitious speech. it is critical that europe wins the psychological battle for and against further european integration by presenting the clear added value that the european union brings to european citizens. let me say a few words: we need a multiannual financial framework and a budget of the european union, not based on the negative psychological impact of the crisis, but ensuring our 2020 objectives, leading to growth, jobs and, of course, the leveling of living standards and conditions in all regions of the european union. we do not want another failure like the one that happened in 2010 with the lisbon strategy. there should be no cutbacks for cohesion policy, this should be understood by the member states and their leaders and they should speak the same in brussels, luxembourg or strasbourg and when they return to their capitals in the member states. secondly, the banking union and the proposed mechanism for supervising banks. it will monitor banks both inside and outside the euro area, so i think that non-euro area countries should also have a say in this mechanism. thank you and good luck!
in writing. the crisis has exposed serious weaknesses in the supervision of the banking sector in eu countries. the problems with the banking systems of some of the euro area countries have caused serious problems with their public finances. and now the price is being paid by the european taxpayer. today we see that it is not enough for the ecb to monitor only systemically important banks to ensure the stability of the system. many financial institutions operate across borders within the union and therefore measures at european level are needed to monitor and control this sector effectively and efficiently. the commission's legislative proposals on a european supervisory mechanism aimed at creating a banking union within the eu will further strengthen the role of the european central bank. however, guarantees are needed to ensure that the 10 non-euro area member states are not left behind and that their voices continue to be heard. only in this way will we ensure a level playing field in the decision-making process for our common european future.
in writing. mr. president, allow me to express my strong approval of mr. barroso's speech, which presented us with a bold vision for a united europe. i'm one of those people who would go down that road without a second thought. messages like this one clearly outline the divisions in this parliament - and that's especially helpful because, as my fellow conservatives have shown, seeking consensus on this vision is pointless. no one can please everyone. i understand that the union's agenda is full of urgent and urgent measures - and yet i want to draw attention to a process that will prove extremely damaging in the long run. we are seeing a sort of isolation of the eurozone countries from the rest. do not leave our citizens with the feeling that europe will have to move in two or three speeds for a while to get things going in the right direction! at all costs, mechanisms must be found to enable non-euro area countries to participate even more fully in the crucial debates ahead. today, in this room, equality is there - but if it is absent at other levels of debate and decision-making, how will we convince our citizens to follow us on the path of bold reforms that lie ahead?
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the opportunity to say a few words tonight on these two important subjects of venture capital and social entrepreneurship on behalf of my colleague, michel barnier, who was unable to join you this evening because of the informal ecofin council in cyprus tomorrow. so, right now, he's got to be somewhere in the air above us. ladies and gentlemen, in recent years there have been too many signs, rightly or wrongly, that finance is an activity that serves the financial actors themselves first and foremost, rather than advancing the economy as a whole. it is up to us to reverse this trend and to use all the means at our disposal to improve the financing of enterprises. it is a necessary step on the road to economic recovery and sustainable growth. since april 2011 and the adoption of the single market act by the european commission, important steps have been taken to boost the competitiveness of our companies, and in particular smes. smes - there are almost 22 million of them in the european union - are the backbone of the european economy, of its capacity to innovate and create jobs. however, unlike other regions in the world, the european union has been lagging behind in identifying and encouraging these champions of tomorrow through a strong and growth-oriented funding framework, that of venture capital. these relays of growth are sorely lacking today, especially in the new technologies. similarly, companies that pursue so-called 'social' objectives are important reservoirs of this sustainable growth we need. these companies create social links through their integration policy for the most disadvantaged citizens, in particular by allowing many people without work to return to employment. the pursuit of social, ethical and environmental objectives can generate positive externalities for a country, but also help to revitalize some of our regions. the debate we are having today is fully in line with this. it is about putting finance back at the service of the real economy, the one that innovates and creates jobs. because europe has financial resources, it even has one of the highest savings rates in the world. the aim is therefore to direct these savings to the sectors which need them most and, above all, to the smes active in these sectors. this is why the commission has proposed to create a new legislative framework for european venture capital and social entrepreneurship funds. through these proposals, these funds will be able to obtain a single marketing authorisation, valid throughout europe, which will make it much easier for them to raise money from investors. we are very grateful to the rapporteurs, philippe lamberts and sophie auconie, and to the non-existent rapporteurs, for the work that has been done on these two dossiers. many technical questions were quickly resolved under the danish presidency and we are satisfied with the political agreement reached on the last day of this presidency. we welcome the spirit of cooperation and compromise that has made this possible. so there is now broad agreement between the council and parliament on the many areas covered by the two files. however, one article remains unfinished, that on tax havens. i fully support the fight against tax havens. i consider these types of tax systems to be a major problem which must be solved urgently. but i also believe that these two proposals cannot be held hostage to one single article. when there is agreement on almost all the content and when there is disagreement only on a very specific element, all means must be deployed to break the deadlock. we are all aware of the time we would lose and the time we would lose to the companies if we went to second reading. i would therefore urge you to resume discussions with the council on this last point as soon as possible. the commission is prepared to facilitate a new compromise on this matter. in our view, a possible solution could be built on four pillars. first, the inclusion in the instrument, and therefore in the text of the directive itself, of a clause which takes up an existing article of the aifm directive. this clause, which refers to the oecd tax convention, has already been accepted by the member states. secondly, the maintenance of the existing recitals on tax havens. thirdly, a declaration by the european commission on the establishment of harmonised standards for the identification of tax havens. fourthly, the inclusion of a review clause in the regulations, whereby the commission undertakes to promote, if necessary, additional measures to ensure that the venture capital fund, the social fund, is not domiciled in tax havens. the commission has always been committed to enforcing international tax law and will continue to fight against all forms of tax evasion. with its draft declaration on tax havens, it wishes to reaffirm its principles clearly and with total firmness. but the main thing today is that we commit ourselves to moving rapidly towards adopting these two texts, because the ultimate aim is to promote the financing of smes. it is a strong signal that we can send today to all economic actors to show them that europe has understood the extent of the problems and is here to propose solutions.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. - mr president, the very fact that this package of two reports is presented in this way - specifically entrepreneurship and venture capital - shows that europe will nevertheless always have a special face before the world, namely that it sees the operation of large capitals primarily as an opportunity for the development of its social activities. in my country, bulgaria, unfortunately, businesses that have a social element have kind of disappeared during the transition. they disappeared with the disappearance of communism in bulgaria. i have personally had a business relationship with a company that employs people with hearing impairments, and i know how important it is for these people that they have the opportunity to work, to do work and to earn their own living, and not rely solely on welfare and other social instruments. so for me, the adoption of the report on the social entrepreneurship funds is a big step forward and, as i said, the binding of this package together really shows the social face of the european continent. as for venture capital funds, on which i was also rapporteur for the support committee, i could say that for me, i see this in the context of the commission's promises of better financial regulation, of better financial discipline, which will deter possible financial speculation in the future, so for me this is also an important step forward. in conclusion, i would say that i see that the committee responsible has developed the proposals of the legal affairs committee which we made in the report, and i therefore believe that we as a committee have done our job, namely to help the committee responsible, to guide it in certain areas where it has developed our proposals.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported the compromise reached after the trilogues on the establishment of a mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental agreements on energy supplies with third countries. i regard this hard-won agreement as the first legislative step towards building a common eu external energy policy. the compromise is not in line with the commission's proposal and the ep's expectations, but it does allow for pan-european coordination in energy relations with third countries to comply with european legislation. this creates legal predictability and stability for investors and the operation of energy infrastructures built with the participation of third parties. the compromise limits the commission's role to that of an observer in negotiations with third countries, but with the possibility of advising and assessing contracts for compliance with european law when the parties expressly request it. the positive example of the ec's involvement in the negotiations between poland and gazprom last year is encouraging for the eastern european member states. there is a growing consensus that a common eu agreement on energy supplies from third countries is the ideal solution for security of energy supply, reducing market fragmentation, increasing competition and fair energy prices. a more transparent and coherent eu energy supply policy also means a stronger position for european consumers.
in writing. − i am deeply satisfied to have supported this resolution because it contains a clear message from european citizens to putin's russia. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia. even then, immediately after the falsifications and threats against opposition leaders, followed by unprecedented civil protests, the questions in this room were: how will the kremlin react? will it take the path of dialogue and strengthening democratic foundations or will it choose the familiar path of violence and self-dealing with political opponents? even if one was too naive to doubt where putin's russia would go, in just a few months all well-meaning illusions were completely banished. the resolution just adopted reveals a shocking picture of political repression, in the preparation and implementation of which the parliament, the government, the prosecution, the court - that is, the entire state machine, including through special legislation, is involved, stifling pluralism and the voice of the opposition. i voted for this resolution because it does not close the door on solidarity in defence of democracy within the eu member states. it is a sign to the russian people that the citizens of europe will always stand by them in their quest to make their country more free and democratic.
mr president, in the united kingdom a few days ago, the prime minister, mr cameron, and the home secretary said on various occasions that they would call for a review of the legislation on the free movement of european union citizens and on migration to the united kingdom. the uk conservative government must clarify whether it wants a functioning and fully-fledged common market, which implies the free movement of people, or the opposite, restrictions and obstacles to this market and to the free movement of people. it can't be both. the uk is one of the countries that still applies labour market restrictions for bulgarian and romanian nationals, and in recent months work permit procedures have become even more complicated. the 15,000 bulgarians are only 0.3% of the five million foreign workers in the uk. clearly, there is no immigration pressure. i would like to ask my colleagues not to allow one of the most important achievements of the european union - the free movement of persons - to be put at risk in any country.
the key to our relations with third countries is the development of democracy, human rights, fair elections. we often pass resolutions that are ruthless about the wrongdoing of one regime or another. our words are worthless if we turn a blind eye to the problems in our home. the bulgarian citizens were dragged into a creeping restoration of authoritarianism. i live in a country where elections are already won by fraud, lobbying, vote buying, abuse of power structures and administrative resources. here, the authorities have established complete control over the media by pressuring their owners or directly interfering with the work of journalists. small and medium-sized businesses are being deliberately stifled, private monopolies are being encouraged, and the government has established full political control over them. business is redistributed in a criminal way in the best traditions of the mafia, dressed in political power. contests don't win the best bids because the winner is determined in advance by a phone call from one person. here the singer is under investigation for lyrics that mock the new party-state and so on and so forth. democracy will win, but we need solidarity and the european union needs concrete mechanisms to stop such perversions in time.
i fully support the visa restrictions on all persons connected to the sergei magnitsky case. i am opposed to all forms of restrictions on freedom of speech, freedom of opinion and expression, violation of human rights. however, i am voting with an abstention because there are many similar cases in europe, but they are not mentioned. everything said in the magnitsky case - abuse of power, lawsuits to remove political and economic competitors, arrests, torture, impunity for human rights violators - is valid for the situation in bulgaria right now. and despite my many signals, the european institutions are silent, there are no such measures and no proposals to the council. i don't believe it's right for europe to condemn russia and at the same time turn a blind eye when prime minister of bulgaria boyko borisov abuses his power. moreover, this silence and this indifference give him that sense of 'impunity' which is so much criticised by this report!
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to tell you that parliament’s report on the multiannual financial framework (mff) does not have a small script. we have said very clearly here everything we wanted to say to the council at this stage. the role of this report is also very clear: to inform the council, because the heads of state or government will be gathering at the end of november – and before mr van rompuy begins consultations with the member states – and to explain parliament’s position on the next financial framework, because the treaty says that the european council can only adopt a decision with the agreement of the european parliament. so we have prepared this report to facilitate the debates in the council and to provide advance information on parliament’s position, and we hope this is going to be voted for by a vast majority today. this report is very clear and consistent and generates very significant support, as have all parliament’s positions on the next mff for nearly two years now. we have been working in the committee on policy challenges (sure), as mr böge mentioned, and have adopted different resolutions in parliament. we have demonstrated great cross-party unity on the major principles of the next budget. the major principle is that this is an instrument. this is not an accounting exercise but an instrument to achieve political goals, to apply the provisions of the treaty and to make the european union viable. i also want to thank the commission, especially vice-president šefčovič, commissioner lewandowski and the presidency. the cyprus presidency, like the presidencies before, has done an excellent job of including parliament in the decision-making of the council this time – or at least we had the opportunity to express our opinion very clearly. my thanks also go to you, the president of this parliament, and to all my colleagues who have been working on this issue, because it is an issue which really unites this house and makes our voice stronger. i want very briefly to touch on four points relating to the budget. the first is the size of the budget. i must begin by saying that the commission’s proposal is not sufficient to finance all the political ambitions that the european union has set. this is very clear. we have to be aware that the procedure for the next multiannual financial framework is taking place in a very difficult context. we have two challenges – confidence in the european union and the ability of the european union to solve these problems, and the need to make fiscal cuts and achieve fiscal consolidation at national level. but let us see what the rationale for the european budget is. firstly, it is not generating a deficit. this means that all the rationale for consolidatíng national budgets due to overspending in previous years does not hold true at european level. furthermore, the european budget does what national budgets cannot do in these difficult times. this is an investment budget. it does everything that the national budgets are not able to do because of constraints. secondly, regarding confidence in the european union, this budget has a meaning because of leverage, the additional funds that it attracts into investment in the member states. ninety-four per cent of the budget goes back to the member states, and it attracts several times more investment. so a cut of one euro by the european budget would mean a cut of several euros for national, regional, agricultural and competition policies. we have to be clear when we speak about the size of the budget. we hear very often from representatives of governments that citizens will not accept a higher european budget. we have to point out to them that we have the same voters. citizens expect european institutions and national institutions to work together and to put forward a mechanism that will propose an exit from the economic crisis and the creation of growth and jobs, using all the instruments both at national and european level. so i would not set national institutions in opposition to european ones in this case. we have a common interest – we are working for the citizens of the european union. if some governments need to go back to basic questions such as whether we need more europe, whether we can do something better at european level than at national level, and whether we are able to set common goals and to fulfil them, then we are ready to re-enter this debate if it is not clear for some governments. of course – and mr böge mentioned the flexibility of the budget – in a constrained budget, flexibility is not a technical term. it refers to the possibility of really deploying resources in the most efficient way in order to achieve the goals that we have set. i will say a few words about the priorities and content of the budget. we have the traditional policies here, but we have to make sure that for the next seven years the european budget stimulates growth, the creation of growth and the creation of jobs across europe. this is the function of the european budget. we are ready to take on board all ideas relating to better spending – to a more efficient spending of the european budget – but we need this budget in order to create jobs and growth, especially for young people. we have on many occasions heard the president of the commission speaking in this house about youth and employment. finally, just one sentence about the procedure. i want to say here in the plenary something that we have said many times to the presidencies. the mff considers two procedures: the consent procedure for mff-related issues and the codecision procedure for nearly 70 legal-basis documents. we do not want to see the council taking the decision on the codecision procedure, which is the right of parliament. we will insist on the right of this house to negotiate properly with the member states and with the council on all the documents related to codecision.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on regional development. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on regional development of our parliament has adopted the view that the funding of cohesion policy should be maintained at least at the level of the period 2007-2014, which is the absolute minimum level of funding and therefore in future parliamentary discussions should represent a lower limit that should not be exceeded. the multiannual financial framework and the annual budget of the european union are investment instruments that contribute to economic growth, competitiveness and living standards in the regions and, of course, to job creation. we hear from the right and the left very often the high-sounding words that we need 'more europe'. let us not be hypocrites on the one hand to say that the answer to the crisis is more europe and on the other hand to have some heads of state and government from member states negotiating financial cuts to this more europe , especially in its cohesion part, which will only compromise our objectives set out in strategy 2020. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt today the text of the interim report on the multiannual financial framework of our parliament and to defend it before the council. (the speaker agreed to answer one question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i am not sure if i understood my honourable colleague’s question very clearly. cohesion policy benefits both: the beneficiaries of cohesion money and the recipients of this money, so i think both sides are beneficiaries. member states who need these solidarity instruments also benefit, but the countries which contribute more to the european budget also benefit from this money. so we need to present this in the right way to european citizens, the taxpayers: there are no losers or winners from cohesion policy, but the whole union – all 500 million people in our continent –benefit from cohesion policy. i hope this answers your question.
rapporteur. − mr president, i want to thank all colleagues for the debate today. with this debate, and hopefully with the vote a little later, parliament will give a very clear signal to the council. i am sure that the presidency will take that message to the council itself. there are three important issues that we have to take from the debate. first, the budget needs to be sufficient. therefore, any decrease in the budget will be accepted with difficulty. we have mentioned several times that we will not accept a haircut approach to the budget. second, the budget has to be highly targeted. we are ready to discuss any ideas on better spending of the monies under the european budget, and we want to see these being used exactly for the purposes for which the eu budget is needed and expected. third, this budget has to help the member states do something that they cannot do on the basis of their national budgets, which is to help them with additional instruments to create growth and jobs in the member states, because all taxpayers have an interest in this happening. these messages have to reach the council and be understood before the council takes a decision. we will also insist on the possibility of negotiating all the instruments contained in the legal basis. again, whatever the council decides will be taken into consideration, but we will not give up our right to negotiate on the legal basis. finally, a word on own resources. i am very happy to hear from commissioner lewandowski that the commission is going to start the procedures for enhanced cooperation for the ftt, but the ftt has to be an own resource and has to make it easier for the member states to reduce their gni-based contributions. we do not want a bigger european budget; we want a more stable european budget, and we will fight for it.
a democratic, stable and prosperous neighbourhood, sharing the values of the eu, is clearly in the eu’s interest. to achieve this goal, we should take political and financial responsibility and be prepared to offer eastern partners further support and clear prospects for an enhanced relation with the eu. the commission has committed to grant additional support to those neighbouring countries undertaking significant political, economic and social reforms. in the time-frame of the mff several eastern partnership countries could have in force an association agreement, including a dcfta. association agreements would contain strong commitments by the eastern partners to legal approximation and structural reforms in many areas, like trade, for which the eu has promised to provide financial and technical assistance. political association and economic integration of the eastern partners will be successful only if the necessary financial support is provided. in this context, and in the light of the latest ‘mff negotiating box’ presented by the council presidency, i demand again that the level of financial resources envisaged in the proposal of the european commission for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework is at least maintained to enable the eu to play its key role for the development of these countries.
in writing. mr president, in recent weeks many of us have wondered whether european leaders will take the concrete steps to deliver on the lofty goals they set themselves at the beginning of the year. moving between gloom and genuine concern, almost all assessments were unanimous in one there was a delay, growing ambiguity and a sense of lack of political will. today we can look at things more optimistically. a decisive step has been taken towards the introduction of a single banking supervision mechanism. i consider it a great success that its construction was declared a priority and that a deadline was set for reaching agreement on its legislative framework 1 january 2013. there is no longer any doubt that the european banking union will be a reality. his new and stricter rules will give citizens security and increase market confidence. but i will never tire of saying that it is frightening how easily some european leaders talk about the inevitability of a two-speed europe. the european banking union and the ensuing fiscal union are shaping the future not just of the euro area countries but of the eu as a whole and their success will depend on everyone, not just those countries directly involved in the euro crisis today.
in writing. i voted for this report because it is a strong political message that we are sending by dedicating 2013 to the citizens. the rights and duties of european citizenship are still largely unknown. this is a chance to increase their visibility! and what a chance to remove some of the obstacles to their practice! this multi-level citizenship confirms the union's commitment to its citizens but also underlines the need for active citizens who participate in the union's policy-making. finally, this european year of citizens is an opportunity for all citizens to make it their own. the strong signal is given that their commitment must be renewed. i am sure that we are all capable of meeting this challenge together.
in writing. − i voted in favour of acaa, despite the official position of my political group, because i do not find the arguments presented by colleagues convincing enough or relevant enough. we should not mix purely technical issues with complex political questions. this agreement is not an upgrade of the relations with israel, it does not give a green light to further expansion of settlements, neither can it be seen as change in the political line of eu or ep towards the middle east conflict. it is regrettable that this technical agreement has been elevated to such a political height that it finally blocked our own ability to negotiate and achieve the goals we initially have identified. if one says ‘no’ in advance and in any circumstances, then that in itself is a weak position. i believe that acca will give eu citizens a larger choice of, and easier access to, cheaper and higher quality medicines. that is a very good reason to support it. it is true that some european pharmaceutical giants would not be happy to face stronger competition on the european market, but finally it is people’s health which has to come first.
in writing. − any attempt to help small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the eu is essentially an attempt to help the eu's economic development and growth. it is therefore natural to support this report, despite some controversial points, which are obviously the result of compromises between the political groups. however, all these differences are reconciled in the common belief that without strong and competitive smes, europe will lose its economic prospects. we welcome the efforts to 'internationalise' smes by creating a multilingual online portal that will help entrepreneurs to find out quickly and easily about relevant legislation in third countries; we also welcome the commission's plan to map the local, regional and national network to support smes in europe; and above all we welcome all attempts to lighten the bureaucratic burden on them. growth and jobs - that's what we need most today, and statistics show that's what smes depend on the most. any attempt by the european institutions to improve the conditions in which they operate should therefore be supported.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i really appreciate your engagement on this because it is an extremely important subject. but we also need to realise that data retention is here to stay. the member states support this and will not accept any proposal to abolish it. the risk is that we will then have 27 different versions for data retention in the different member states with no common standards in respect of privacy and purpose. we did an evaluation in april 2011 which made use of evidence from the member states – you may call it anecdotal – but we had evidence on how they used this. since then we have received more evidence of how it is used. these are concrete examples of how data retention has been used in order to crack down on criminal and drug networks and to identify victims and persecutors in child abuse networks, etc. i would be happy to share them with the european parliament. we have already done so and we are happy to do so again. i understand the criticism here, and i share much of it, but we need to be honest: this is not the mass surveillance of 500 million citizens. this is data that has been kept for commercial purposes by companies. it can be accessed by police authorities under certain conditions on an individual basis. it is not mass surveillance; we need to be clear on this. these practices are subject to democratic and judicial controls in the member states. having said this, there are problems with this directive which are clearly outlined in the evaluation from april last year. i have mentioned them and members have referred to them in their speeches. there is insufficient harmonisation and clarity on the scope, who has access, the definition of serious crime, data protection rules and the retention period. we will seek to amend this and to shorten the data retention period. the revised proposal will also include a full assessment of the directive’s impact on privacy and other fundamental rights. data protection is a very important issue – all the members would agree on this. we in the european union need to have a coherent view on this, and that is why we need to do this together with certain other things. we need to address the loophole that today exists in the eprivacy directive, and which some members referred to. we must also make sure that the general data protection regulation – and i know that many members here are involved in reforming it – is in line with what we are doing, otherwise we will have divergences in legislation. all this needs to be looked at together, and that is why i cannot give you an exact timetable today on when we will do that. but the purpose is for us to have strong data protection rules, and i will be more than happy to continue working very closely with the european parliament.
member of the commission. − mr president, sorry, i should have mentioned that. a quick freeze, which many members have referred to, is quite different from data retention, and we are looking into this as well. this is not considered as an alternative to data retention for member states. we are conducting a study on it which will be presented with the overall framework and the new proposal on this.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for the opportunity to speak on our trade relations with japan and the future eu-japan free trade agreement. i note with interest the adoption of the motion for a resolution on eu trade negotiations with japan by the committee on international trade two weeks ago. i hope that the european parliament, in its vote expected later this week in the plenary, will clearly support the launching of eu-japan fta negotiations. japan is one of our main economic partners, and thus a decision to launch new fta negotiations has to be based on solid ground. on 18 july of this year the commission, after thoughtful consideration, decided to approve the draft recommendation to open negotiations with japan and transmitted this to the council. the ground for this decision has been prepared well. we have an agreement with japan on what both sides expect from the negotiations. the so-called ‘scoping paper’ lays out the scope of our potential discussions. it is the most ambitious paper of this kind that we have ever agreed with any trading partner. this gives us comfort that all our priorities will be addressed. we have also negotiated – again upfront – a dedicated package that addresses key regulatory barriers, including for the car sector and railway procurement, which constitute the single most important hurdle for eu economic activities in japan. japan has also accepted that the phasing-out of tariffs can only take place strictly in parallel with the elimination of regulatory barriers. this means that the dismantling of eu tariffs will only take place once concrete results on the removal by japan of regulatory barriers have been achieved. to ensure that japan continues to make progress in eliminating regulatory barriers, i have suggested to the council the introduction of a ‘rendezvous clause’ in the negotiating directives. the clause would allow the eu to take stock of the progress achieved within one year of the start of the negotiations and bring them to a halt in the event of our failing to achieve meaningful progress. i am pleased to note that many eu industry sectors have recently expressed their support for the launch of fta negotiations with japan. these include it, consumer electronics, agri-foods and beverages, wholesale and retail distribution, chemicals, and services – all of them key for the expansion of eu economic interests abroad. let us not forget that japan remains a huge economy, with consumer spending power that is still roughly twice as large as china’s. it is therefore crucial to unlock the potential opportunities for eu companies to sell their products and services to a country that so far has remained fairly protected by non-tariff barriers. the fta objective will be to eliminate these trade barriers and create a level playing field for our companies to enter and sell in that market. according to the impact assessment report of the future eu-japan fta, potential gdp growth close to 1 % is expected if we conclude this agreement. this is a significant gain, which cannot be ignored – especially at this time of economic difficulties. i hope we can count on your support in this endeavour.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as the severe economic crisis frustrates the eu’s common vision, the vote on the japan trade resolution can take us a step forward towards free trade negotiations with one of the biggest trading blocs in the world and benefit european citizens by maximising the jobs and growth potential under the eu 2020 strategy. we cannot accept that our two-way trade with the world’s third-largest national economy amounts to only a quarter of our trade with the us or china. the potential gains are clear. the commission has estimated that nearly two thirds of such gains under the eu’s trade policy would come from potential agreements with the us and japan. however, we realise that the negotiations will not be easy and that the commission must be firm with its japanese partners. that is why, as rapporteur, i have tabled amendments for a binding review clause within one year of the launch of negotiations to allow for a thorough assessment of the implementation of the 31 roadmaps agreed under the scoping exercise. our chief incentive during negotiations has to be the implementation of the commitments made by japan to eliminate non-tariff barriers in various sectors, particularly the automotive sector. to ensure this i included a provision that if japan has not delivered on its ntb commitments and has not demonstrated sufficient ambition in meeting the eu’s priority demands, the commission should stop negotiations, after consultations with the european parliament and the council. with this in mind, as rapporteur and representative of the alde group, i urge the member states to cast their cautiousness aside. now is not the time to say ‘let’s wait a few more months’ or ‘we need more concessions’: now is the time to launch negotiations with japan. dear colleagues, the ground has been prepared. let us translate our ambition into action.
in writing. it is no exaggeration to say that erasmus is the most successful student exchange programme in the world. its success is so undeniable that it has become a symbol of a united europe for millions of young people. even the mere mention of the possibility of a lack of funds for its implementation is a blow to the eu's credibility. above all, as commissioner lewandowski's statement makes clear, it is the students with the lowest financial means who are likely to be affected. let us think of the deep disappointment of a young man when he learns that because of the unfulfilled financial commitments of the 'officials from brussels', he will not be able to feel free and will not be able to travel at the same pace as his peers. that he couldn't be a real european because they ran out of money. and one more thing. concerns have been expressed in this room on many occasions about the burden the current crisis is placing on young people, about youth unemployment, about the need for new policies... but let us not belittle what we already have. the erasmus programme has been with us for 25 years now, it has been part of the cultural and educational experience of a whole generation. it has proven itself to be effective, far exceeding the expectations placed on it. its preservation and expansion is our duty.
in writing. the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff), which is expected to be operational in principle on 1 january 2014, amounts to eur 6.5 billion for maritime and fisheries. so, given the crisis we are in, we want to make sure that this money is used for the common good. if we have opted for greening the cap with new environmental conditions, why should the same requirements not apply to fishermen, when we know the critical situation of ocean biomass? the fisheries reform text proposed several months ago by the european commissioner for maritime affairs and fisheries, maria damanaki, seeks to "promote sustainable and competitive fisheries and aquaculture". but it is clear that the proposals of certain political groups and member states seem to be far removed from the spirit of the reform. the argument that stopping fishing in the atlantic for a while would not only protect stocks but also increase fishermen's incomes permanently is gaining ground and deserves particular attention.
in writing. - following the vote rejecting mr yves merche's candidacy for a seat on the ecb's board, the left-hand side of the room erupted in applause. many meps - my lord - were not prepared for this action. i was very surprised that a candidate with an impeccable reputation and unquestioned professional qualities could be denied the final rights in the plenary hall itself. there's only one argument against him: his masculinity. i can't believe this! at the height of the eurozone debt crisis, this room is being used for a gender politics exercise. i find that undignified and irresponsible. but we can also see some ulterior motives. mr. merch has conservative fiscal views, is an opponent of the financial transaction tax, and is the head of the central bank of the small country of luxembourg. well, how could you not? a man, after all! i myself have supported many measures to reduce the gender imbalance in the european institutions i never imagined that the principles underlying them could have such an ugly application. without feeling any solidarity with my colleagues on the left of the chamber, i sincerely hope that, even through the head of parliament, today's injustice will be corrected.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it has the merit of being a strong political signal calling for the union and all member states to ensure the coherence of development policies in an efficient and intelligent way. this report highlights the importance of building sustainable partnerships based on equality, human rights, gender equality and respect for the environment. in addition, as part of the union's development policy, the cfp requires transparency in all areas of development aid, including aid to local producers and smallholders, aid to countries in conflict and post-conflict situations, the promotion of fundamental rights, migration and human mobility. in addition, the report suggests complementing the concept of aid effectiveness with that of development effectiveness, which promotes an open and comprehensive dialogue between partners. finally, it is essential that the eeas, the member states and all the actors concerned, i.e. national parliaments, civil society and international organisations, provide each other with the means to ensure that these proposals do not remain a dead letter but become actions.
mr president, i want to add my congratulations to those of everyone who has already congratulated the rapporteur. i think that eider gardiazábal rubial did an excellent job and i hope that many of the conclusions and recommendations of this report are going to be taken on board by the commission and by the legislative bodies as well. we have said several times that these financial instruments are much needed because they increase the effectiveness of the european budget, but they are not here to replace the european budget. currently, only a little over 1% of the european budget is involved in financial instruments. so far, we have good practice and we have to review that and to develop it in the future. these financial instruments have a limited use. normally they can be used for commercially attractive projects as a means of rectifying market inefficiencies, for suboptimal investments and to create leverage for the european funds, but again we are talking here only about long-term investments. i would point out that there are very good examples of financial instruments being used to support research, innovation and small and medium-sized enterprises, and i think we have to build on these achievements. we need – and i very much support what is said in the report on this point – fewer and better-focused financial instruments, and we do not need to over-regulate them. we should improve ex-post transparency and ex-post control but we cannot determine all the characteristics of the financial instruments in advance because they would not then be used properly. lastly, there are three things that i very strongly support: the work on the creation of standardised platforms, where european money can be combined with private money; ongoing and permanent work on the blending of funds from the european union and from private and other public investors; and the use of the reflows coming back from the financial instruments for the same purposes.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, yesterday the vidin-kalafat bridge was finally completed. prime minister borisov, prime minister ponta and commissioner hahn gave an example of why the danube strategy is needed because it unlocks potential and it is a chance for a higher standard of living for the citizens of europe. once on the agenda, however, we need to take stock of what has been achieved, analyse the challenges and lay a solid foundation for future action. first of all, i would like to remind you once again that the strategy has the eyes of millions of citizens of the danube countries. i also meet them in my country, bulgaria, every month, where we are currently holding round tables with the ministry of regional development on the opportunities to build europe's regions through the implementation of the strategy. and in these meetings, we see people's expectations: roads and river ports, clean air, soil and water, cultural, historical and tourist sites, youth education centres, small and medium-sized enterprises in operation. what more do we need? first, the political will to bring the danube strategy to a successful conclusion. courage, commissioner, the european parliament will support you! secondly, common actions, coordinated and with clearly defined deadlines, objectives and responsibilities; and thirdly, specific projects to address our common problems and simplified procedures. two important moments for me: i would like to pay particular attention to the involvement of young people in the danube strategy. these are the carriers of the future, these are the carriers of creativity and innovation. they can give the danube strategy an additional chance to achieve its objectives. second, we need strategic investments. we are voting on a multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. commissioner, what resources can we count on? finally, i believe that only with adequate resources, very clear, coordinated action and precise priorities and strategic investments can we turn the strategy of the three 'n's' into a strategy of the three 'd's': 'd's' of better use of resources, 'd's' of better coordination between the individual institutions and 'd's' of new ideas implemented in concrete projects that make the lives of people along the danube better.
madam president, it is becoming increasingly difficult to prepare resolutions on belarus which can say something new. the next one could be one sentence long: ‘we reiterate the findings and positions stated in our previous resolutions’. it looks as if the president of belarus has invented a time machine. this is the only reasonable explanation for why and how a country in europe can freeze itself in today’s dynamic and interconnected world. there are very clear indicators which can measure whether elections are free and fair. they apply to every country in the world, and belarus cannot be an exception. there, no elections have been recognised as free and fair since 1995: in other words, the legitimacy of all elected representatives is insufficient. if we talk to them we do not talk to the belarusian people: it is as simple as that. so what can we do? stay and wait? engage and support? punish and sanction? everything has been tried so far, with ups and downs, but the final result is zero. the option is to invent something completely new, which would shake the people in belarus and wake up a critical mass – not very realistic. another is to follow an enhanced version of the current long-term strategy: a roadmap to democracy. its course should be to gradually raise the awareness of the belarusian people and belarusian society, because change can be supported in brussels but it should be prepared and should happen in minsk.
first of all, i would like to wish success to the new government of georgia, headed by prime minister ivanishvili. the key posts in it are entrusted to people with a clear political and professional background, and this in itself is a positive sign both for georgian citizens and for foreign partners. i want to emphasize something that is at first glance paradoxical: the loss of president saakashvili's party and the peaceful change of power are the strongest proof that the rose revolution has achieved its goals. georgia has proven itself to be a functioning democracy. but the happy ending shouldn't blind us to the alarming signals that were coming in during the election campaign. i think that the step to the complete disruption of the elections was very small and i am convinced that the strong presence of the european union had a deterrent effect. this is the place to thank catherine ashton and stefan fule for the wonderful work they and their teams have done on the ground. now is the time to swiftly implement the recommendations of the organization for security and cooperation in europe for the elections, to correct all the shortcomings of the legislation so that the presidential elections next year will consolidate the positive trends. the current situation of coexistence of a prime minister and president from different parties is a huge challenge for established democracies as well, but i believe that the common long-term goals will help to overcome the party and personal opposition, which in my opinion is currently the most serious threat to georgia. it is important to ensure that georgia continues its work of rapprochement with the european union for successful negotiations on the association agreement. at the same time, we expect the new government to do more to support the poor, to strengthen labour rights, to correct the shortcomings and inequalities that the ultra-liberal economic policy has left behind. finally, i would like to say that i am looking forward to the formation of the new georgian delegation to the euronest parliamentary assembly. i hope that its composition will allow georgian mps to join the groups of the main political families people's party, socialists and liberals. i take this opportunity to thank the current members of the delegation and hope that we will continue to work with some of them in the future.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is a step forward in monitoring and evaluating and promoting awareness of the work of the european ombudsman. this is of great importance, given that in the years since the ombudsman was created, we have seen a significant bridging of the gap between citizens and institutions. it is of paramount importance to the eu to ensure that its citizens fully exercise their rights and, secondly, that the quality of the eu administration is improved. the fulfilment of these two conditions gradually leads to the creation of a service culture that radically changes the way public services are provided, whilst fully guaranteeing the rights and interests of citizens. the ombudsman helps to identify the rights of citizens to participate in the work of the institutions, to disseminate mechanisms for solving citizens' problems. i believe that all of us as citizens and as european employees are directly affected by the work of this body. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and i am voting in favour of this report, which is a sign of support for the work of the european ombudsman.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i am very pleased to see the reform of the brussels i regulation on the agenda of this plenary session and i would like to thank all those very dedicated politicians and administrators who have managed to bring this forward. firstly, of course, your rapporteur, mr zwiefka, has done a wonderful job, together with this committee and, secondly, the presidencies – the polish and danish presidencies and now the cyprus presidency – have ensured a smooth finalisation of this file in the upcoming december council. now this is a real success story, for citizens, for companies and for the single market, and it is one of those success stories which builds a european area of justice. it also shows that justice can contribute to growth. we are speaking here about 500 million consumers; we are speaking about companies, mainly smes, which are reluctant to use the potential of the internal market because of many legal obstacles. forty percent of companies would be more inclined to trade cross-border if the procedures for settling disputes were simplified, so that is precisely what we are doing here: removing bureaucratic obstacles which impose extra costs and legal uncertainty on companies; and this is part of our central objective to create a single market which is attractive also to our smes. with the reform of brussels i we are making an important contribution. as the rapporteur has already said, we are abolishing the exequatur procedure, a procedure which in most cases is not necessary but which costs money – usually eur 2000 per case wasted on this formality. in future we will get rid of this red tape; the benefits to companies will be eur 47 million per year and we will actually do what the united states has been doing for a long time under article iv of the constitution, which says that there is a principle of full faith and credit. by abolishing exequatur we will also have a ‘full faith and credit’ principle in the european union. then there is the question of the choice-of-court agreements, which will be better respected in the future. the overwhelming majority of eu businesses – almost 70% of all companies and 90% of large companies – use choice-of-court agreements. the parties involved need to be sure that their choice will be respected; the review which is on the table now provides greater legal certainty. on the external aspects of brussels i, when there are proceedings with third states, and also with respect to the weaker parties, we have taken decisions to ensure that all consumers and employees in europe will have access to the courts in europe no matter where they live. this is a real concrete benefit for our european citizens. finally, on the difficult question of arbitration, mr zwiefka, i can accept the compromise, which i believe marks a step in the right direction. in conclusion, mr president, this is an important step towards a real european area of justice. i would like to thank parliament for its support and i look forward to defending the proposal of parliament in the council, and then to celebrating a success in december.
a question asked by raising a blue card. mrs. regner, you have said several times that you speak like a social democrat. you have presented the position of your political group, and in fact you have been given the floor on behalf of the committee on employment and, in the opinion of the committee on employment, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. you had three minutes, and you only made that statement in the last 30 seconds of the speech. my question is, could you use the answer to the question i'm asking you now to explain a little bit more about the position of the employment committee?
i will take mr zwiefka's words as an example and ask myself the following question: why, if this regulation has worked so well so far, do we now need to reform it? and i give myself two very embarrassing answers. and they came from what mrs. reding said. the first, in terms of choice of court, is the issue of the fact that ms. reding said that in 90% of cases large companies choose to have a choice of court agreement. that's because the big company is the strong side in the deal. she wants to impose a court that she thinks might be more favorable to her. so i don't think the small ones are gaining from the change in the regulation, on the contrary, the big ones are gaining. and the second point is what mrs reding said: that this is how we are approaching the system of the united states, that is to say, this regulation is working towards greater federalisation of europe, and i, as a member of the european parliament who is fighting for the construction of a europe of nation states, of nations, and i fully agree with what mr paška said on this point, find this approach to the system of the united states and greater federalisation of europe unacceptable.
it's clear that euroscepticism is growing in britain, that 65 percent of the country's citizens see the future of europe in black. but neither this nor any other attitude can justify the sharp and unjustified attacks on bulgarian and romanian citizens by our british colleague mep bloom. his article, which speaks of the future threat of crime by bulgarians and romanians, is deeply disturbing. the most lenient definition of it is that it goes beyond good tone because the allegations are obviously unfounded and discriminatory. moreover, it calls for the breach of the treaties of the european union, i.e. for non-compliance with the rules for its functioning. it is unacceptable and outrageous for me personally and for the movement for rights and freedoms, which is an opposition party in bulgaria and which i represent, to inflame xenophobia and mutual hatred in the difficult times of a general economic crisis.
mr president, i would like to concentrate on the fiscal and budgetary part of the report and the proposal by the four presidents. indeed, we have a proposal on the table for a fiscal capacity for the eurozone which is going to be discussed in december 2012 by the heads of state. this is a profound proposal which has its own logic. of course, the single currency also needs closer integration and convergence in terms of budgetary policies. i also think that from the experience we have had with countries that are under the programme it is indispensable that besides restructuring the national budgets and cutting costs, we provide the necessary financing to keep the economy running and solve some of the most important and serious social problems. i would say that to maintain a single currency you also need a much larger budget but i am not going to touch on that. there are two ways to reach that aim. the first one is the one suggested by parliament, and that is to have an overall approach vis-à-vis the fiscal commitments of the member states for the european budget but also for different funds which would go to part of the member states. the other way is the one proposed by mr herman van rompuy and this is to split and discuss separately these issues and eventually to go to an intergovernmental agreement. this second way would be very dangerous because both instruments depend on the national budgets; we have the same contributors and they cannot pay twice for two budgets – that is why we need to involve everything within the frameworks of the european institutions and reach a unity of the budgetary commitments.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is a step forward towards more active promotion of european products, both on the local markets and on the pan-european and external markets. however, i believe that in order to be more ambitious in promoting quality products that are linked to specific production methods, geographical origin, traditions or cultural context, it is necessary to promote them more actively not only in local markets but also within the eu as a whole. i am pleased that my colleagues have agreed with me that, given the increased demand for organic products, a stronger commitment to encouraging their production and promotion is needed. for me, to achieve the two conditions above, namely to produce more quality and organic products, we need to first think about the types of agriculture that prevent biodiversity loss, such as the beekeeping sector. i therefore vote in favour of this report in support of the rapporteur's view that it is now time to define more clearly a promotion policy which serves to encourage and compensate for the production of specific products included in quality schemes and agricultural practices which protect biodiversity.
shale gas is undeniably an energy resource, and the big question here is whether this resource can be extracted and used in a sustainable way. what's happening now, and the fracking method that's used to extract shale gas, is extremely risky. this is also reflected in studies commissioned by the european commission. the risks are to water, underground and above ground, the risks are to air, to soil, the risks are from a seismic point of view. we must not close our eyes to all these risks. they're very high, and with the current technology, what's being done right now, shale gas extraction is not acceptable. yeah, it's good to have a new power source. the question is, what is the cost of getting this source? there are a few conditions that have to happen that don't exist today. first, new technologies have to be developed. the hydraulic fracturing technology that is used today obviously poses huge risks and offers no guarantees. second, you need complete information. we all know very well that the big companies hide the methods, the chemicals, the ways in which they extract shale gas, and they hide them not by accident. third, there should be guarantees and economic commitments on the part of the companies that extract. this thing doesn't happen. we know many places in the world where nature has been left in ruins by misuse and misregulation. public consent is required, including across borders. we see that in many countries, fracking permits are issued without much public discussion. that's not available right now either. we have to keep an eye on what's going on in the world. if new technologies are developed, if they are proven to be absolutely safe, then we should not deny any energy resource. but at this point, those technologies are gone. new legislation is needed. we cannot impose a european moratorium, but we can say that shale gas is worth the price paid by the local population. the benefits go to the companies, the cost goes to the local population. and the european union should set barriers and limits high enough so that this method can be used safely enough, if it is used at all. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i agree that this is a national decision, and i can inform you that in bulgaria the government imposed a moratorium on shale gas because of pressure from the local population. i am proud that this decision was made because of citizens’ pressure on the government. in terms of seismic risk, if you see the latest research in the uk, you can be very sure that a seismic risk exists. this is proved in our member state, the united kingdom.
shale gas production may contribute to europe's energy security, but it will not solve europe's energy problems. the potential economic and industrial benefits of shale gas should be assessed together with the expected costs and risks to human health and the environment in both the short and long term. if well managed, these risks can be minimised, but we must ensure that we have a clear and stable programme for responsible industrial development in europe. europe needs an objective scientific debate on the economic, environmental and social potential of shale gas development on the continent. that is why i would like to congratulate my fellow rapporteurs on this initiative to raise this debate and i hope that together we can develop a common winning strategy for europe.
mr president, following public opinion in my country, i would like to raise again the issue of an amendment which i have co-signed urging the member states not to authorise any new operations using fracking in the eu. we are not talking here about whether or not shale gas is a valuable resource that should be exploited. that is obvious. we are talking about fracking technology which has proved to have negative environmental and health effects, about which a large number of citizens have legitimate concerns and have even referred their claims to the committee on petitions. this has never been reported to this house. the commissioner for the environment has stated in the press that there are more risks in the extraction of shale gas than conventional natural gas. yes, this technology has been used – and is used – in the united states, but in a loss-making economic model and with very uncompetitive prices. that is why they are trying to explore it and to extend it to the european union. whether we are speaking about r&d, funding, exploration or exploitation of unconventional shale gas, we should not forget that even exploration is related to fracking. we should ensure that the highest level of health and environmental protection remains our primary principle, over potential economic and strategic interests which still have to be demonstrated.
in writing. our gas market has changed dramatically in recent years, mainly due to lower prices for lng supplies, which are being redirected from the us to the european market. the main reason for this is the shale revolution in the united states, which has not only brought the united states closer to full gas supply, but may soon become a natural gas exporter. shale gas is a reality that will continue to change not only the energy but also the economic future of the world. firstly, because of the price of shale gas, which is 3-5 times lower than current gas prices in europe. low energy prices are a powerful factor in improving the competitiveness of any economy, and in the context of global competition for markets, no country can underestimate this possibility. so instead of thinking about european bans on shale gas development, let us take a constructive stance and exploit the potential of european shale gas in the best and safest way. let's review our legislation and take all the measures to protect the soil, drinking water, environment and health. let us support the search for new, safer shale gas technology solutions, rather than stalling progress.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in this parliament we prevented the adoption of acta some time ago. we have voted consistently on the freedom and openness of the internet. i think that at the coming world conference on international telecommunications in december 2012 we have to maintain a very strong stance. i really think that the european union is expected to adopt a common position on the basis of a very good proposal which has already been submitted by the european commission. we are going to participate in negotiations in the framework of a un body which is the international telecommunications union. we have different countries with different interests participating in this body. the internet is a very strong tool nowadays. there are many countries that would like to control it because they are afraid of the strength of internet and the people using internet. we have different examples of countries or organisations that want to establish control of the internet, for example, changing the business model and making it more expensive and less accessible and with more monopolies working on it. there were some governments which some time ago wanted to create a national internet, the very idea of which is an oxymoron. such a thing is not possible. but i have also heard of some proposals that are going to be presented, most probably at this conference, coming from russia – which is a very powerful state – saying that member states should have the sovereign right to regulate the activities of operating agencies providing internet. that is the end of the freedom of the internet. there are proposals saying that member states should have the sovereign right to manage the internet within their national territory. what does it mean to manage the internet on the national territory and what does it mean to link the internet with the sovereign rights of the country? there are proposals saying that member states should have equal rights in deciding about internet addresses and domain names. this is the end of the current system of multi-stakeholders regulating the internet. it is not possible. that is why we insist on a common position for the european union and a very strong involvement of the commission.
sis is the largest database for the protection of public security and the support of police and judicial cooperation. today we hear that there are still many problems. there are problems with finland, but there is another paradoxical situation with no less important problem. for two years, bulgaria and romania have been part of the sis-1 system. tests have also been carried out with positive results for switching to sis ii. at the same time, both countries remain outside schengen. ladies and gentlemen, don't forget that bulgaria is an external border of the european union. the fact that bulgaria is outside schengen automatically limits the bulgarian authorities' ability to process data on third-country nationals, and there is pressure especially from the southern neighbours. this makes the work on sis ii for european security incomplete. i would like to ask the commission and the council once again to use their resources to ensure that bulgaria and romania join the schengen area. i can only hope that a positive decision for both sides will be taken before the final introduction of sis ii in 2013. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr coelho, in particular, for his consistent position on this matter.
we all know that ignorance of the law is no excuse for breaking it. but mark twain also said that if a man took the time to learn absolutely all the laws, he would have no time left to break them. what do the european institutions do all the time? they shower european citizens with new and new laws, regulations, directives, resolutions, delegated acts, and so on and so forth. european citizens are crushed under the weight of this new and new legislation that is being imposed on them. and not only that, but even the european commission comes out of the rapporteur's report, crushed by the task of monitoring whether all this huge legislation is being implemented. how will the european commission succeed, with the task of monitoring this process beyond the reach of even hercules? okay, you say hercules was one man, we have an administration, we have bureaucrats. and now you say that we need more administration and more bureaucrats to monitor the implementation of european legislation. well, yes, it's true that bureaucracy is expanding to meet the needs of an expanding bureaucracy, i.e. taxes are being collected from european citizens to be flooded with new and new bureaucracy and new and new legislation and i think that's wrong.
i think parliament's position is very clear and it was voted on by almost 80% of our colleagues at our october partsession. and that position has nothing to do with what the presidency has proposed since then, and in particular mr van rompuy's proposal. it is not acceptable to the european parliament as it stands. we are again witnessing the budget debate in the european council turning into an accounting exercise. a zero-sum game where one must win and one must lose. the european budget is not that. what parliament is fighting for is to provide a tool for policies that are already defined. who set these policies? the council of europe itself. the leaders who now refuse to provide the funding to implement these policies. who made the decision in june to support the growth and jobs pact with 150 billion euros? the leaders of europe. who made the decision and told the young people that they would have more opportunities to move freely and study in europe? the leaders of europe. who promises developing countries that if they open their markets, they will get additional aid? the leaders of europe. who is making commitments to fight climate change? the leaders of europe. so much for the appointments. and the implementation of these commitments requires the appropriate budget. so when we talk about budget, we should be talking about policies that are already decided. here the british conservatives, our colleagues, are worried about the british taxpayer, and rightly so. but are they telling the british taxpayer how much the uk universities are making from youth mobility? how much does the british business make from the common market, from the common infrastructure? how many british researchers and scientists are involved in joint european projects? how many british firms are involved in spending public investment from the european budget? because that's the other side of the truth and it should be told to the taxpayers. let us ask our regions - in the developed, in the less developed, in the most backward regions - if there is no european funding, there is no public investment. and that's a fact. and if we limit them further, that means that the european budget is not solving the economic crisis, but deepening the economic crisis. we do not want the european budget to be a pro-cyclical measure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let's ask the ngos working in developing countries how many jobs are created in europe and how much european companies also profit from the development aid we give to developing countries. because that's the other side of the coin, too. ladies and gentlemen, parliament must decide on the consent of the european council. i am sure that if the european council does not comply with our requests, we will not be able to support such a decision.
the council's proposal to reduce cohesion policy funds and to introduce all sorts of difficulties in the use of these funds is therefore illogical and unacceptable. what is the point, when we need growth in europe, of freezing or even reducing the size of an effective investment instrument complementary to national efforts at a time when we are aiming at completing the single market and increasing the competitiveness of all european regions north, south, east and west? i believe that it is the cohesion policy that will bring us out of the real but also psychological crisis we are in. what's the logic in crippling her? what is the logic of dividing the friends of cohesion policy and the friends of good spending? one goes hand in hand with the other. there are heads of government who boldly declare that the multiannual financial framework until 2020 should be frozen. will they have the same courage to tell their constituents that they will freeze their national budgets until 2020? but of course it's more popular and more populist to cripple the european budget. we declare that we want growth and jobs, a competitive economy, scientific discovery and innovation, and we are deliberately reducing the very instruments that achieve them. this is how we ensure that the objectives of 'europe 2020' are not achieved, as was the case with the lisbon strategy. do we want to go through this again? the world around us is not waiting for us. ladies and gentlemen, heads of government, do not condemn the main pillar of solidarity in the european union, cohesion policy, to failure to achieve its objectives.
i voted for the report on the environmental impact of shale gas and shale oil extraction activities. with this report, the european parliament is calling for a number of regulations for the shale gas energy industry. the most important of these, championed by the socialist and democratic group, are: no eu funding for research and innovation in this area, mandatory environmental impact assessment, the consideration of fracking liquids as hazardous waste and also a ban on fracking in drinking water areas. the adoption of this report should not be considered as a green light for shale gas extraction in the member states of the european union or as support by the european parliament for this. it sets out, above all, the limits and standards that are expected to be respected in the countries where this extraction is permitted. i myself am in favour of a total ban on shale gas extraction by the fracking method and i hope that bulgaria will remain one of the countries where this extraction is banned.
in writing. − i supported the two reports on the migration from sis 1+ to sis ii, because i consider these reports a step forward. sis ii is one of the most important tools for the schengen area. the european parliament rejects the continued use of an intergovernmental structure. it has always supported the evolution of the schengen area and the establishment of sis ii, which will be a truly european system. sis ii will make it possible to add new data (e.g. biometric data) and new functions, which can increase security across the eu and try to stop eventual threats to the overall security of the schengen area. sis ii will be a useful tool to fight organised crime, to detect criminal networks and to find missing persons. that is one of the reasons why i also appreciate the work that has been done by colleagues in the libe committee. finally, i voted for the report, because it aims to foster the area of freedom, security and justice, but more importantly because the sis ii is an essential instrument that will considerably improve data protection and the fundamental rights of individuals.
in writing. − the vote on this report comes at a time when the issue of shale gas is the subject of a heated debate. unfortunately, ideological biases are particularly strong, and their advocates refuse to see a few undeniable facts. first, significant shale gas deposits have been discovered in several european countries and exploration is about to begin in several more. second, shale gas is already having a strong positive impact on the european gas market, reducing prices and limiting russia's influence. third, compared to other fossil fuels (petroleum, coal, etc.), the use of shale gas results in the lowest carbon emissions. so the fears are mostly about the risks of exploration and mining. today we have shown our commitment to ensuring the highest possible environmental protection standards for the use of hydraulic fracturing in the eu. at the same time, we reject any possibility of imposing a europe-wide moratorium on shale gas exploration and production, which would be contrary both to the lisbon treaty and to eu energy policy. there is no more sensible approach than the one just voted: to leave the decision on extraction and exploration in the hands of individual countries, and to make environmental standards as high as possible and at european level.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted for the report by mrs sonic because it takes a balanced approach to shale gas. we cannot ignore the fact that there is a whole range of opinions on this issue, from complete denial to extreme favoring. the existence of risks in current hydraulic fracturing technology cannot be denied. it is also true that the risks of public concern are being addressed and appropriate solutions are being found, and that the time is not far off when fracking risks will be commensurate with the generally accepted industrial conventional risks. however, we cannot afford to dismiss lightly the potential benefits of shale gas extraction in europe for the eu economy and reindustrialisation in a competitive way to address the issue of the volatility of renewable energy. for some member states, shale gas is almost the only option for achieving energy security and independence, which is a powerful political incentive for its public acceptability. i support the commission's study which has been launched to identify the need for stronger eu legislation addressing the identified schismatic risks. the combination of many disparate factors today requires that we abandon the emotional extreme approach of denial and turn to sober judgment and comprehensive analysis.
in writing. - i think that the report proposed by the committee on industry, research and energy on the industrial, energy and other aspects of shale gas and oil goes too far and for the most part seeks to make arguments in favour of shale gas and oil extraction. it's particularly interesting that there's a whole section on public opinion and how to calm the population, i would say, in a sleep. and although the ep did not allow shale gas to be linked to the fight against climate change, with which the socialist and democratic group won an important victory, the final result did not allow me to follow my group and i did not support this report, but voted "abstention".
in writing. − as a member of the ep's committee on petitions, i supported this report because it is an important step towards increasing european citizens' awareness of the work of the commission as an institution to which everyone can turn. i believe that the report contributes to greater transparency, accountability and improvement of the work of this committee. the petitions received show that europe has a mature civil society that is not afraid to put its questions to the european parliament, as laid down in the treaty. on the other hand, a large proportion of petitions can be dealt with at member state level. this is why enhanced cooperation with national authorities is needed to better implement european legislation and protect citizens' fundamental rights and freedoms. it is also of particular importance that the submission and examination of petitions is not instrumentalised and used to achieve objectives on the political agenda in the member states, but is carried out objectively, reflecting the position of the european parliament. in times of crisis, what the european and national institutions need most is a boost in citizens' confidence as a necessary stabilising factor. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and i am voting in favour of this report in support of the work of the committee on petitions.
in writing. – europe has taken the lead over the most ambitious line in the unfccc which it will defend in december in doha. if the eu is a pioneer in pointing out climate change as a threat and understanding the urgency for climate mitigation, we also acknowledge the need for all parties to adopt ambitious and sufficient targets for the ghg reduction, and to convince the big polluters that we face an issue which needs to be addressed at international level through strong commitments. the eu’s low carbon roadmap and the promotion of renewables and energy efficiency show an effective political will at eu level. nevertheless, these are derisory if never implemented at international level. durban put the foundation for an all-parties’ comprehensive, ambitious, international legally binding agreement to be reached by 2015 and implemented by 2020. but these commitments are still unclear and our current policies are clearly insufficient to meet the objective of limiting the surface temperature increase to 2 degrees celsius. i am proud to be on the side of those who do not live in blindness but i know that the actions we undertake against climate change will be worthless without international awareness and equal participation in our efforts.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, ms koppa, for her excellent report on enlargement. i welcome the report’s acknowledgement that enlargement is a successful european union policy and has to remain in the union’s toolbox. the report is largely in line with and supportive of the commission’s approach, in particular on the balance between conditionality/integration capacity, on the one hand, and maintaining the momentum of the enlargement process, on the other. i am pleased with the emphasis in the report on benchmarking; on the necessary link between the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) objectives and the requirements of the accession criteria; on greater involvement of civil society and the social partners in the accession process; and on associating the enlargement countries with the europe 2020 goals. this is all in line with the commission’s policy, as reflected in this year’s enlargement strategy communication. let me turn now to some of the issues raised in the report, starting with the methodology. as you know, the commission is actively engaged in the process of constantly improving the enlargement methodology. with the new approach on chapters 23 and 24, we have taken seriously the lessons learned in previous enlargements and have proposed a concrete way of reflecting them in future. the two chapters will now be opened as early as possible and should be among the last ones to be closed. this will allow the accession countries sufficient time to develop solid and sustainable track records. we agree on the need for a focus on ‘social challenges’ at times when this dimension is of the utmost importance in both the enlargement countries and the eu. the initiative for a new dialogue with the enlargement countries on employment and social reform programmes, as set out in this year’s strategy paper, responds to that need. on open bilateral issues, it is important that these are addressed as early as possible in the enlargement process, with determination, in a good-neighbourly spirit and taking into account overall eu interests. bilateral issues should not hold up the accession process. we welcome the acknowledgment in the report that the copenhagen criteria continue to be the fundamental basis and should remain at the heart of enlargement policy. the commission considers that the existing basis remains relevant and adequate. the commission always keeps policies under review, taking account of developments and lessons learned, and we are open to discussing further refinements. we have taken note of the comments in the report on the need to simplify and reduce the administrative burden associated with ipa funding. i agree with these comments and, largely thanks to the lessons learned from the current ipa instrument and feedback from the various stakeholders, our ipa ii proposal addresses this need. let me conclude by thanking you, honourable members, for your continued support for our enlargement policy. with your support, i am confident that enlargement will remain a strong and credible policy, with the rule of law at its centre, for the benefit of the citizens of the enlargement countries and the european union as a whole.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on budgets. − the enlargement process is faced with a new type of financial problem, namely the risk that the pre-accession assistance instrument will suffer inappropriate cuts in the next financial framework and that negotiations with the applicant countries will be blocked. let me remind you that when the decision to extend the european community to eastern europe was taken some 20 years ago, hardly anyone could have foreseen how quickly a whole system would be overturned and how quickly the values of the market economy and the rule of law would be embraced. i would say that enlargement to the east is the most successful and most european project of the european union, because it has achieved in a short period of time incredible economic, social and political changes in the lives of many. the nobel prize was awarded to the european union precisely to promote cooperation for peace and to recall the extraordinary achievements. colleagues, enlargement is a policy that has no equivalent at national level. it is not an infrastructure project, it is not an agricultural subsidy, it is an investment in the future of this continent. but let's not be completely self-serving, but let's refresh that investment, for example through innovative financial instruments to better concentrate funds, with the help and cooperation of our partners in the most visible and useful projects in the implementation of sustainable public policies.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, this is really an excellent report. we have discussed this a number of times in the foreign affairs committee with colleagues from member states and with colleagues from enlargement countries and i think that we have produced a really remarkable result, and i congratulate mrs koppa for all the work she has done. the report details the achievements and the shortcomings of the enlargement process and there is also an assessment and a number of recommendations on how it should go on. enlargement however is not a technical process and we often forget this. this is a very political process. i must say that mr füle, the commissioner on enlargement, has made history these last three years making this processes credible enough and carrying the stick and the carrot hoping to unlock and unblock: to unlock internal political situations; to unblock bilateral issues. and all this must be very irritating sometimes; at least it is for me to see when countries or political parties do not see the bigger goal, the bigger idea behind that process. you have invented a positive agenda on turkey and a high-level accession dialogue for macedonia. i wonder what the next bright idea is just to keep the process going while countries block each other. looking at the technicalities we sometimes forget the dream about a united europe; we forget about the great ideas of peace, solidarity, mutual support, cooperation and dialogue. we talk only of criteria, requirements, benchmarks, indicators, roadmaps – let us talk also about why the european union was born. why the unification – what i call unification and not enlargement in 2005 and 2007 – has happened and has taken place and why this cannot be completed without the western balkans. my time is running out but i would really like to call on the council, particularly, but also the commission and the parliament, to make sure that in the next seven-year period there will be enough financing for the enlargement process and that we make sure that this process can continue successfully and we do not fight over words in the trialogues which are in front of us and taking place right now but that we think about the big idea and make compromises for the future of our europe.
in view of the many new challenges facing global and european security, it is time for the european union to further develop and strengthen its common security and defence policy. a concrete example is the question of what is the potential impact of climate change, natural disasters and military crises on european security and how should the union be prepared to respond? my view is that we should build european military capacity, but i also think that it should not be our first choice and that we should not resort to it first in the event of natural disasters. nor is it increasing administration and creating new policies, but better coordination and strengthening of existing instruments that will lead to a more effective response to crises, given the limited budget we have. ladies and gentlemen, the strength of the european union is that we are leaders in providing humanitarian aid in the event of disaster and that we cooperate with a multitude of partners to ensure the safety of our citizens and people around the world. the common security and defence policy can complement, but not replace, these well-functioning union instruments.
as the shadow speaker on the outer dimension, i would like to congratulate mrs lövin on the wonderful work she did on the report, and the entire secretariat, which was very professional. the work on the report was very complex, because it was necessary to find the golden ratio between the interests of the member states and the community, of the european union and third countries, of the neighbouring maritime states, while strictly respecting international agreements, guarantees of competitiveness and market regulation. the commission has also been asked to make a proposal for a regulation on the conservation of fishery resources in the baltic sea. the activities of the regional fisheries administrations and the need to establish one for the black sea were also regulated. we worked hard and found the right compromises. that is why i cannot understand why mr adrovede has tabled a new, alternative draft at 11.55 a.m. and surprised all the members of the committee, who voted almost unanimously for the lövin report. the arguments he has put forward this evening have not convinced me, and i assume the majority of this house, and i urge my colleagues not to support this alternative proposal.
madam president, allow me to join my colleagues in welcoming the european court of auditors’ annual report on the implementation of the budget concerning the financial year 2011. i would like to briefly comment on some aspects of it that i find particularly important. firstly: shared management. the report states that the highest error rates were found in policy areas under the shared management arrangements, namely in rural development and regional policy. if we want to improve the efficiency of control systems, all stakeholders should take their responsibility – including the commission – but also, and especially, the member states. secondly: direct management. 20% of eu money is spent directly by the commission, and the findings of the court state that the error rate for research and other internal policies increased from 1.4% to 3% in 2011. like my colleagues, i would be curious to learn the reason for this increase and what measures are being being considered by the commission to remedy this situation. thirdly: the link between inputs and results. i really welcome the new chapter 10 of the annual report entitled ‘getting results from the eu budget’. i believe that it is a step in the right direction. the eu budget should shift from a compliance-oriented to a performance-oriented model of spending – a model that looks at the results achieved. we need clear indicators, base lines and target levels in order to assess the achievements of these eu policies. the court of auditors’ report states clearly that there is scope for improvement. the union faces a very important challenge: to do more with less money. therefore, it is all of us together – commission, european parliament, member states – who should find a way to spend every euro in a more efficient and effective way, to bring maximum results in these times of austerity. this is what european citizens are expecting from us. finally, please allow me, since this is my last speech in plenary, to use this opportunity to thank all my colleagues from the european parliament – especially the colleagues from the budgetary control committee and our secretariat – for the excellent cooperation we have had throughout the years. i am grateful for these years full of dynamic and lively discussions from which i have learned a lot, and i hope we will continue this cooperation. you can rest assured that dialogue with this parliament will be a key priority in my future work. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although the kyrgyz republic does not fall within the geographical scope of the european union's macro-financial assistance instrument, the democratic efforts of the kyrgyz authorities in establishing parliamentary democracy and the reform process underway in the country have made it one of the european union's main strategic partners in the region. the union is one of its main donors and should provide around eur 30 million through its macro-financial assistance facility. we liberals are concerned about the management of financial flows and the system of the central bank and the ministry of finance of kyrgyzstan, as well as the administrative procedures, the security of the it systems used, the internal control mechanisms, etc. we are also concerned about human rights in the wake of renewed ethnic tensions in the country. but we believe that if kyrgyzstan takes the necessary measures to prevent misuse of eu funds and if it eliminates the existing risks, the assistance that the country will receive as a wto member will serve as a signal to other countries in the region that the european union is ready to support countries with a clear trend towards democratisation and political reforms. however, if there are negative developments in kyrgyzstan, the commission should not hesitate to suspend the payments provided for by the macro-financial assistance instrument. we should apply the principle of "more for more", but if the situation worsens, we should not be afraid to apply the opposite principle, "less for less". as regards the main question raised by professor moreira on the comitology, as rapporteur on the framework regulation on macro-financial assistance to third countries, i believe that both the commission and, above all, the council and, of course, parliament should set an example of good sense and reach a mutually acceptable compromise, as commissioner de gucht has just mentioned, in the spirit of the lisbon treaty.
mr. chairman, colleagues, i have long warned that a dictatorship in bulgaria would compromise europe and could lead to civil war. we criticize countries that have problems with democracy, but they laughingly dismiss our remarks and advise us to fix our own problems first. because we let one general lay a whole nation's life on the line, and europe is silent. the epp, as a symbol of christian values, instead of apologizing for the mistake made in accepting this tyrant, protecting him, turns from the guardian of democracy into the defender of a criminal. i'd love to see the reaction of the rank and file of the epp when they find out who their leaders support. the misery in bulgaria, the lack of human rights, the monopolies that borisov holds over business, the economy (even the electoral system is controlled by one family - the medarovs), are just one - the great slaughterhouse of europe. the dictatorship in bulgaria discredits europe and those who support it. people say, "if you want to hear the truth, tell it". you tell it.
in writing. − any delay in the uptake of new technologies and innovation will have devastating long-term consequences for the european economy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. it is sad to see that we are unable to reap the maximum benefits of the 'digital economy' because of unfinished business in the institutions of the nation states and the legislation of the union. and we must feel particularly responsible, because on this question the resistance is relatively weak and things depend much more than usual on the political will of politicians at european level, that is, on ourselves. the current legal fragmentation places severe obstacles in the way of citizens and businesses in carrying out transactions between countries. their initiative is confronted with 27 different types of rules in the fields of postal services, intellectual property rights, vat and what not. we must urgently reduce this fragmentation, which is particularly painful for smes, burdens them with unforeseen costs and limits the opportunities for growth and new jobs that europe so sorely needs today. everything that supports growth and employment should be supported.
in writing. i supported mrs angelilli's report because it is a report that highlights the problem of age-related diseases in women. many diseases are often underestimated in women. in fact, women have a longer life expectancy than men. but it is clear that these extra years are marked by a poor quality of life. this report is all the more relevant because it proposes concrete measures and policies to improve the quality of life of older women. i call on the commission and the member states to take into account all the measures proposed in this report in order to build and promote a european union more sensitive to the needs and interests of older women and men and to mainstream the gender approach in awareness-raising and information measures and policies, in order to ensure active and healthy ageing for all. finally, improving the health of older women also requires promoting their rights. it is up to us to ensure and guarantee that these women do not have to suffer discrimination, violence or poor living conditions.
mr. chairman, for four years we've been listening to mr. barroso's sweet fantasies about a financial transaction tax. and after four years, all we have is nothing and no enhanced cooperation, which is only meant to cover up one thing - that mr. barroso failed to introduce the financial transaction tax. but while it has failed to implement its political agenda, the council has failed to protect the interests and desires of its own citizens. so when we have to make demands on citizens - maybe when we have to take money from them to bail out banks that have gone under because of their own mistakes - maybe, and when we have to punish those who brought about the financial crisis - can't, right? shame on you, mr. chairman of the board! shame on you and your countries for bringing this to this. and don't be surprised why european citizens are looking more and more to patriotic forces. as they say in bulgaria: "what you call, you call!"
in writing. − i supported the report on european statistics on safety from crime, because i am in favour of the rejection of the legislative proposal recommended by the rapporteur. eu instruments and policies can only be developed and adopted on the basis of coherent and sound statistical data. thus, i am in general in favour of the idea of collecting statistics on safety from crime. however, the commission's proposal lacks clear explanations and contains incoherencies. the proposal raises questions on the methodology. some of the questions proposed by the commission are highly sensitive and it is difficult to imagine the added value or truthfulness of an answer. misinterpretations are possible consequences and they are contrary to the concept of coherent and sound statistical data. furthermore, the proposal lacks of information on how the outcome of the survey will be used in future legislative proposals. finally, i voted for the report, because the indicated expenditure of 12.000.000€ lacks of a clear and proper explanation. especially in times of economic crisis it is our duty to use our budget in a reasonable way and for the european citizens.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it is a necessary step forward towards restricting the transport of live animals for slaughter and towards substantially improving the welfare of animals during transport. more and more animals are being transported within the union as a consequence of the development of the internal market. however, for the eu to have a sustainable agriculture, a well-identified policy on humane treatment is needed. the future of eu agriculture is based on high quality and good welfare standards. transport must be provided in such a way that the quality of the meat reaching the final consumer is not affected. the fulfilment of this condition also contributes to promoting european products in a convincing way. the transport of animals is therefore essential for the practical application of the relevant legislation. european legislation on the transport of animals is strict. however, it is only sufficient if appropriate monitoring and controls are in place. therefore, the correct application by member states of the existing legislation on the transport of animals is the key factor for the successful implementation of the pan-european rules. the fact is, over time, the violations have been getting smaller. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur on his good work and his contribution to a more humane eu policy.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, on behalf of vice-president/high representative catherine ashton, i am honoured to address you and this august body in your annual joint debate on human rights. it is fitting that this year’s human rights day should coincide with the award of the nobel peace prize to the european union for bringing reconciliation and democracy to our continent. human rights are not only at the heart of the european union’s founding principles, they are a silver thread that runs through all our external policies. the nobel prize is a great recognition of our past achievements. but it also focuses the spotlight on all of us – the eu institutions, the member states, and 500 million citizens – to work together and redouble our efforts to promote and protect human rights, both within our borders and worldwide. with the coming into force of the lisbon treaty and the creation of the external action service, we now have the means to make human rights an even more integral part of our foreign policy making. 2012 has been an intense and busy year. this past july, the eu adopted a human rights strategy and appointed our first eu special representative for human rights – your own, as was mentioned before, mr stavros lambrinidis. his mission is to give more coherence and consistency, more effectiveness and visibility to the eu human rights policy and carry the message for human dignity around the world. we agreed an action plan to translate our commitments into concrete results. we have pushed ahead with over 48 human rights country strategies, now agreed for the next three years. our eu election observation missions continue their essential work, strongly supported by this house. and we have used our network of delegations worldwide to help ensure that the disabilities convention – the first human rights convention the european union has been a party to – is fully applied. we could not do the important work we do on human rights without the constant support and cooperation of this house. together we amplify our calls to safeguard fundamental freedoms and democracy. reports, such as those by mr donskis and mr tavares, which we are discussing here today, set the bar high and challenge us to do more and better. quite rightly so. your vigilance and support bolster our efforts. at the heart of our efforts lies a simple truth: that each man, woman and child has a valuable contribution to make; that every citizen is of inherent worth in our societies. the award of this year’s sakharov prize to ms nasrin sotoudeh, an imprisoned human rights defender and lawyer, and jafar panahi, a film director – both from iran – sends an important signal. through his work, jafar panahi has called attention to the hardship suffered by iran’s poorest. the courage and sacrifices of nasrin sotoudeh inspire us all. in their different ways, they both speak for those who have no voice and those whose rights have been denied. every voice counts. this is the foundation of our democracy. and it is the principle on which this house is built. the theme of this year’s human rights day focuses our attention on inclusion and participation in public life. it could not be more timely. the desire to embed these principles in society is the driving force behind what we are witnessing in the arab world today. the recent steps taken towards democratic transition by several countries in the region and beyond are a beacon of hope for peoples everywhere. but such progress is rarely linear, nor can it be taken for granted. a few weeks ago, we launched a task force to give much needed political and economic support to egypt in its democratic transition. we are prepared to be a true partner. but we have also made it very clear that respect for human rights and democratic principles remain the fundamental tenet of our support. the reaction in syria to what began as a peaceful protest to demand political participation has cost tens of thousands of lives. over 2.5 million syrians are in urgent need of aid. more than 1.2 million are internally displaced, with hundreds of thousands more seeking refuge in neighbouring countries. the civil war risks destabilising the entire region. on monday the european union foreign affairs council expressed its deep concern about the widespread and systematic violations of human rights and international humanitarian law in syria. the eu will continue working closely and comprehensively with international partners on planning to ensure the international community is ready to provide rapid support to syria once transition takes place. as soon as a genuine democratic transition begins, the european union stands ready to develop a new and ambitious partnership with syria across all areas of mutual interest. the sahel is another case where the european union needs a comprehensive approach, keeping human rights at its centre. the last few months have witnessed a further deterioration of the situation there. more than 16 million people are now directly at risk of malnutrition. the humanitarian situation in mali is particularly worrying. radical rebels in the north have been recruiting child soldiers and imposing brutal punishments in the name of a fundamentalist interpretation of sharia. we must make all possible efforts to ensure that human rights defenders are free to express their opinions. the malian army must be fully trained to respect human rights. in north korea, unequal distribution of food continues to threaten the survival of many. restrictions on religious freedom and freedom of expression violate the basic human rights of citizens. simple dissent and opposition can lead to imprisonment and even torture. in our relations with russia, vice-president/high representative catherine ashton has been clear in all her statements on human rights. be it in individual cases – such as the magnitsky investigation and the ‘pussy riot’ trial – or with respect to recent ngo legislation, catherine ashton has conveyed the union’s strong message of support for civil society and its unwavering commitment to human rights. in september she commented extensively in this house on the political use of justice in russia, echoing many of the concerns raised by the honourable members. we have also, on many occasions, reiterated our serious concerns over the worsening situation of civil society in russia. at a time when the european union has just been awarded the nobel peace prize, our thoughts turn naturally to liu xiaobo, the 2010 nobel peace prize laureate from china. liu xiaobo is today the only nobel peace prize laureate who is not at liberty, serving an 11-year prison sentence for authoring charter 08 and reprimanding human rights abuses in his articles on the internet. i renew the european union’s call on the chinese authorities to respect liu xiaobo’s right to freedom of expression and to release him from prison immediately and unconditionally. inequality between men and women continues to permeate all aspects of society. girls are more likely to be kept out of school, to be forced into marriage and to be subject to violence and harmful practices. women and girls are also still more likely to be denied access to basic healthcare. at the same time, there are estimates that some three million women and girls around the world face female genital mutilation or cutting every year. it took the bravery of a 14-year-old pakistani schoolgirl, malala yousafzai, to alert the world to the inequalities that exist in many places when it comes to education as well. of the nearly 800 million people who still lack basic literacy skills, almost two thirds are women. redressing these inequalities is not only about righting wrongs; it is also an investment in the future. research shows that income rises by 10% for every additional year spent in school. education also helps us tackle inequality, teaching girls to grow into women who stand up against discrimination and violence to form pillars of a vibrant democracy. freedom of religion or belief is an inalienable human right and an essential pillar of safe and prosperous societies. it is an integral part of our political dialogues. this year we have expressed concern about the situation in iran, egypt and nigeria, to name just a few examples. we are also working on common guidelines to address the issue even more systematically. we must continue to speak out for the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people across all continents. people should not be killed or imprisoned for who they are or whom they love. yet homosexuality remains illegal in over 75 countries, with seven still imposing the death penalty. we can only advance human rights effectively if we work together and share the responsibility of promoting them. today the eu works closely with regional partners around the globe, such as the osce, the african union, as well as the league of arab states and the oic. there is no better forum than the united nations to ensure that universal human rights are recognised as just that – applying to every woman, man and child, wherever they may live. the election of estonia, germany and ireland to the un human rights council means that there are now nine eu member states represented – a record level. we have already advanced human rights in a number of areas through this forum. to name just a few examples: on syria, the eu took the lead in tabling a resolution focusing on the continuing human rights violations as well as access to the country. we also worked hard to achieve the appointment of a un special rapporteur for belarus and for eritrea. a particular success was the resolution on the death penalty, which was adopted by a record number of 110 positive votes and 91 co-sponsors. and by deepening our engagement with the oic, we have managed to adopt a resolution on freedom of religion and belief. we were particularly happy that the african-led initiative on the first ever resolution against female genital mutilation was adopted by consensus. the positive developments in burma/myanmar have given hope to all of us. when aung san suu kyi was awarded the 1990 sakharov prize, she was under house arrest. she was blocked by her government from coming here to strasbourg to collect her award. this year, she was not only able to travel to new york for the un general assembly, she also received an unprecedented public tribute from her country’s president. the story of burma/myanmar shows that progress really is possible through painstaking work and political leadership. events of this year have demonstrated how our world has become even more interconnected. the arab spring is a recent example of how the internet works as a catalyst for social and political reform, spreading the message of the socially marginalised and the politically oppressed. unfortunately, these new and inclusive forms of expression are seen as a threat by some. over the past year, we have therefore had to develop innovative measures in response to the worrying trend of increased internet censorship. we restricted the export of internet technology used to intercept citizens’ communications in syria and iran. we have developed ways to assist internet users, bloggers and cyber-activists living under authoritarian regimes to circumvent arbitrary disruptions to communications technologies, including the internet. these are just two examples showing that the european union is dedicated to safeguarding human rights both online and offline. social media are just one example of how we need to open up more arenas to address human rights. civil society networks are key. this is why we team up with hundreds of ngos from all over the world to champion the cause of human rights. only last week, the 14th annual eu ngo forum brought together over 200 committed human rights defenders, activists and policy-makers. these motivated men and women have the desire and will to effect change. they turn common interests into common action. yet ngos increasingly face severe restrictions on freedom of expression and association placed on them by governments that seek to silence their voices and stifle their actions. to support their cause, the european instrument for democracy and human rights has supported human rights defenders and civil society in over 100 countries in 2012. for the period 2014-2020 we hope to make an additional eur 1.6 billion available to bolster their effort further. in october, the european endowment for democracy was created to support pro-democracy defenders struggling for democratic transition in the european neighbourhood and beyond. it is a great pleasure to see that nine meps have agreed to be on the board of governors, including the honourable member and chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, mr elmar brok, as chair. so looking back, 2012 has been a landmark year for human rights. we have every intention of continuing to push ahead in years to come, also on the issues of coherence and consistency raised by mr donskis and mr tavares. in closing, mr president, allow me once again to thank you, and the honourable members, and the european parliament, for your prevailing support. promoting human rights requires our consistent vigilance and continued dedication. this can sometimes seem daunting. but we should never forget that by advocating the rights of the repressed, by giving a voice to those who are forbidden to speak, and by providing shelter to those in need, we honour our shared humanity.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality has also adopted a report on the situation in the european union. - mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate our rapporteurs on their excellent work. secondly, as rapporteur for the opinion of the femm committee, i would like to highlight four points which i believe are essential to ensure that greater account is taken of women's rights, because yes, when we talk about human rights, we also talk about women's rights. the first is the systematic inclusion of a gender approach in the union's dialogue with third countries and in all instruments of the union's external action. the second is the inclusion of the defence of women's rights as a priority in the mandate of the union's special representative for human rights. mr. lambrinidis, we're counting on you to make this work. the third point is the need to strengthen the european institute for gender equality sufficiently to enable it to carry out serious studies, to identify good practice and, finally, the fourth point is the need to see more women in the negotiations, aimed at finding solutions in difficult situations of conflict, post-conflict or, simply, democratic transition. so here are four important points, several political messages, which appear in the reports, but with one objective: to continue as the european union to become the defenders of human rights and to contribute to the strengthening of these rights through concrete means and actions. we owe it not only to the citizens of europe but to all the citizens of the world.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteurs tavares and donskis for their excellent work on both reports. human rights must be at the heart of all european union and member state policies and at the heart of all international agreements, in particular those relating to trade. i share the view that the most important task of the special representative for human rights, mr lambrinidis, is to reinforce the human rights emphasis in all union strategies. although there are numerous instruments in the field of human rights and democracy, there are a number of factors that hinder the effective implementation of these policies. it is unacceptable that these instruments are not able to measure the policies pursued. for this reason, i believe that the arab spring and the experience gained with the eastern partnership countries show the need to reorganise the neighbourhood policy so as to give greater priority to political dialogue with ngos, human rights defenders, trade unions, the media, which are important factors in the processes of democratisation and transition. i therefore welcome the implementation of new initiatives such as the european endowment for democracy and the civil society support facility, which act as catalysts for democratisation by providing flexible and timely assistance. the promotion of human rights and democracy is our shared responsibility, which can only be achieved if the european union and the member states commit themselves to coordinated and coherent action plans. the arab spring has exposed a number of shortcomings in european union policies towards the region, including towards young people, who face mass unemployment and a lack of prospects in their own countries. i therefore support the creation of exchange programmes or the opening of european programmes for young people from third countries, while at the same time strengthening the activity of civil society on these issues. as a liberal, i believe that this is the only way the european union can establish itself as a credible advocate for human rights in the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all we can say that the union must remain active and continue, with even greater courage, to take clear positions in line with our values when it comes to egypt. two key words: vigilance and dialogue. today, it seems to me that it is important to address messages. the first is addressed to the egyptian government. more than a year ago, you took the path of democracy. the road is not easy: new constitution, elections, anchoring of institutions... but you are on the right track. on the other hand, do not give in to old authoritarian reflexes because this is about all the egyptian citizens who have put their trust in you. you have no right to neglect them. the following message is addressed to local, regional and international partners. we must continue our support efforts by intensifying political dialogue. we are not here to judge the egyptian government but we must not hesitate to defend human rights, democratic values and the rule of law. next, a message to the egyptian citizens. we have a duty to support the initiative of citizens who have shown their commitment to living in a democracy which defends their interests and guarantees their rights. i call on all national actors to work in a spirit of compromise and dialogue to have an egyptian state that defends human rights, respects the rule of law and is determined to move forward. this also requires the inclusion of women in the negotiation process and their access to positions of high political and economic responsibility. another important aspect is that we should not forget the young. with their dynamism and initiative, egypt is a winning bet if it invests in the development of young people. finally, a message to all of us as the european union. we are egypt's main trading partner and the main source of aid and investment. today we are called upon to play a leading political role. the eu-egypt task force, which held its first meeting in cairo on 14 november, is the concrete expression of our enhanced cooperation. (the president cut the speaker off) it is also a unique means of achieving the common objective of promoting peace, stability and prosperity, as well as the fundamental values of human rights and the rule of law. the task force should include all actors in the democratic transition and identify partners who can contribute to the implementation of the priorities of both egypt and the european union in both the economic and political spheres. this is how we can work to consolidate democracy while at the same time not forgetting the recovery of the economy, the creation of jobs and the realisation of investments that are profitable for all of us. so i believe that our strengthened partnership with egypt can meet this challenge and meet the needs of the people. but to do that, as i said before, it is important that dialogue and respect for human rights remain the key elements in the egyptian transition process.
mr president, when i follow the media reports, i have déjà vu. the president is misusing his power, the people are on tahir square, the military is back in the streets; history has come full circle in less than two years. mubarak is out, morsi is in. but nothing can repeat itself in the same way. i believe that we all learned our lessons, and if this is the case the eu has to act quickly and decisively and in close cooperation with the united states. in mid-november, during the successful eu-egypt task force, we showed an example of what our relations will be if democracies respect it and political reforms continue. now we have to show an example of what our response will be if democracy is under threat and the rights of the people are violated, now that pro-democratic forces need adequate support in their fight. this is a crucial moment when our credibility is again being tested. therefore, i do not completely understand the fact that the foreign affairs council just, i quote, ‘took stock of the latest developments in egypt without any meaningful conclusion or statement’. i am afraid that calls for dialogue and responsibility not backed up by action can only encourage those who embark on a dangerous anti-democratic path. in a few days egypt will wake up with a dubious constitution which will become the foundation of all future developments. will the council again simply take stock of it or will they be able to take a position? i know very well that democracy cannot be built overnight but i refuse to pretend i am blind when i see developments in the opposite direction.
mr president, i think we can all recognise the fact that the current authorities in ukraine have done a lot to bring the country closer to the eu. but what is lacking is the understanding that coming closer to the eu is not only a technical legislative process, it is also a matter of values – and exactly the level of values the european parliament would like to see more. the parliamentary elections were a clear expression of this deficiency. despite the fact that a number of improvements were made as regards legislation and the technical organisation of the elections, the main concern remained the pre-electoral process, which needs to be significantly improved. my recommendation, however, would be to proceed without delay to the signature of the association agreement, because this is the most effective way to bind ukraine to the eu, to make visible and, hopefully, irreversible the clear european choice of the country. engagement is the most effective tool for transforming a society – a society which is becoming increasingly vulnerable to populist and nationalistic ideas. we somehow failed to see that the clearly anti-semitic, nationalistic extreme right party gained the support of 10% of the voters. this party is a test for all others who declare themselves european and pro-democratic. any cooperation with the svoboda party in the parliament of ukraine must be excluded. the socialist group has made an amendment to the joint resolution in this direction, and i ask my colleagues from all political groups to support it. again, it is a matter of values. and by the way, i will not support the proposal and oral amendment by mr gahler. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for your question, mr brok. i am not here to defend the radicals on the left or whoever, but we have seen in this campaign – if you have followed it closely – the absolutely unacceptable behaviour of the svoboda party with very clear nationalist, anti-semitic messages which i think need to be clearly evaluated by our parliament. on the other side, the communist party have not made such statements. in their electoral platform there is no hatred and xenophobic behaviour or ideas. that is why i think we should not mix up the parties – svoboda and the communist party. if you are thinking of making a case for the possible participation of the communist party in the next government, it is a matter of different amendments and different ideas. please do not mix the two issues.
madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the balanced document which reflects well the successes and challenges facing albania as a potential candidate country for membership of the union. in assessing what has been achieved so far, i believe that albania has the potential to cope with the difficulties on its path to integration. however, as already noted, i would like to share the concern about the nationalist rhetoric surrounding the recent celebration of the centenary of the country's independence, and perhaps give a specific example. on this occasion, at a huge rally in skopje, prime minister berisha spoke about the realization of a national unification of ethnic albanians in the region, and in another speech in tirana, he spoke about the albanian lands stretching from skopje to podgorica, two capitals of neighboring countries of albania. such statements do not contribute to the atmosphere of trust and good neighborliness. on the contrary, they lead to an increase in ethnic tension, as was seen, for example, at this huge rally in skopje. we must send a clear signal (i agree with the rapporteur and my colleagues) to the authorities in albania that such nationalist rhetoric is unacceptable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation on the multiannual framework for 2013-2017 for the european union agency for fundamental rights, because the current multiannual framework expiries at the end of 2012. thus, it is necessary to establish a new multiannual framework for the period 2013-2017. i voted in favour, because i welcome the inclusion of the principle of non-discrimination based on gender into the proposal of the council. moreover, i welcome the claim to cover all areas mentioned in article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights by the agency. furthermore, the european commission suggested the inclusion of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the new multiannual framework. the rapporteur expressed serious concerns about reaching the required unanimity in the council. in order to allow the agency to operate under the new multiannual framework i supported the rapporteur’s suggestion that the european parliament should give its consent. finally, i voted in favour, because the eu is founded on the values and principles that defend and promote human rights and civil liberties.
author. - mr president, the crisis in kivu brings to the surface old demons that haunt the great lakes region, but above all old, serious problems, which the congolese state has not tackled with the seriousness it deserves. impunity, the absence of a truly professional military force, the fierce competition for control of natural resources, the total lack of political will on the part of the congolese state to carry out governance reforms mean that today, the burden of insecurity borne for years by the civilian population is becoming unbearable. it is high time that we did something to resolve this conflict, instead of just managing it. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. at the first level, the responsibility is primarily congolese. it is a political, economic and social responsibility. an immediate end to violence, effective cooperation with the international criminal court, a functioning and independent judicial system, and real respect for human rights - these are the conditions which will enable us to hope for a resolution of the conflict, not its management. at regional level, it is important that the dialogue initiated between the drc, rwanda and uganda be continued. actions by iarc and the european union can help to find sustainable solutions. it is important, on the one hand, to proceed with the establishment of the joint verification mechanism, by providing it with adequate human and financial resources. i would also like the states concerned by the un report to provide answers to the questions raised. at the international level, monusco must do everything possible to fulfil its mandate more effectively. it's the wish of the people. as far as the european union is concerned, we are already doing a lot through our humanitarian aid and through our two major missions, eusec and eupol. we will continue these efforts. finally, i would like to call on the congolese state to do everything possible to ensure the protection of dr mukwege and to shed light on the assassination attempt against him. it is not just the life of dr mukwege that is at stake, but the lives of all women who have been victims of sexual violence, and the congolese state has a duty to protect them. this is a political signal that we are waiting for, and we hope that the congolese state will give it.
