mr president, the new constitution of hungary was yesterday declared by the legal service of the european commission to be in breach of the european treaties. we believe that this violation must be brought to an end either, preferably, by new, more positive amendments by the hungarian government - something which, as we heard today, the hungarian government is willing to do - or by legal measures by the european commission in the spirit of the treaties which provide for the compatibility of national legislation with the european acquis. this is not our position against the hungarian people, whose integrity we absolutely respect, nor against hungarian national sovereignty, but against policies which violate the rights of citizens, rights which are related either to the employment equality directive or to the existence of an independent central bank or an independent personal data commissioner. moreover, focusing on these three cases should not be a reason to neglect the other constitutional changes. nor should the attention and reactions be focused only on the issue of the media and the charter of fundamental rights and leave aside the rest of the constitutional ... the ... (the president cut the speaker off) )
i am grateful, mr president, for giving me the opportunity to complete my speech which was interrupted by mistake earlier. i was therefore saying that focusing on these three cases - the retirement of judges, the independence of the central bank and the independence of the personal data commissioner - should not be a reason to neglect the other constitutional changes. nor should the interest and reactions be focused only on the issue of smes and the charter of fundamental rights, leaving aside the other constitutional changes, the threats against organized workers, the attacks, for example, on the labor code, which has been replaced by a new one that upsets the balance of workers' rights in favor of the employer side. finally, the case of hungary cannot be isolated from a more general context affecting other member states, the context of the economic crisis and its side effects, namely unemployment and uncertainty about the future. the european commission, as guardian of the treaties, must also look to other member states where there is a tendency to curtail citizens' rights.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, my congratulations to mr saryusz-wolski. in today’s interdependent world, global problems need global solutions. global solutions are necessary for international security, political, economic, monetary and ecological stability, as well as for access to raw materials and rare earths. the financial crisis in europe had its origins outside the union, but to put our house in order and avoid negative externalities, the cooperation of the rest of the world is necessary. it is for this reason that coordination between the eu and the united states, and their diplomatic understanding and cooperation with the brics, becomes very important. we need to correct east-west monetary imbalances – the deficit in the west and the surplus and trillions of reserves in the east – by deciding on upper limits of deficit and surplus and by fighting protectionism. the cake is common worldwide. the west is the market of the east, while stability and prosperity in the east are necessary for the security and healthy economy of the west. in this framework, the contribution of the brics, and particularly of china, in a specific imf special-purpose vehicle, would significantly increase imf firepower and robustness in dealing with the sovereign debt crisis of the eu and tomorrow – who knows – of the united states. in parallel, beijing’s request for a further upgraded institutional role in the imf and free market status in the wto, which will anyhow be attained by 2016, could be accommodated.
madam president, the regrettable failure of the security council to condemn the assad regime because of the russian and chinese veto was perceived on the ground as a licence to use heavy weapons indiscriminately, leaving many civilians, including women and children, dead or wounded. the russians wanted to put the oppressed and the oppressors on an equal footing, condemning both in order – as mr lavrov explained – to avoid civil war. the russian veto is achieving just that. desperate oppressed people take desperate measures to defend themselves and the country, due to deficiencies of the international community, is heading towards civil war. iran’s support of the assad regime has an explanation. through this regime they can manipulate hezbollah and hamas in order to destabilise the region. but the russian position is perplexing. let us hope that this is a temporary stance in order to boost the putin candidacy, using it as domestic bravado for domestic consumption. the eu’s position is a position of principle. we remain faithful to the policy of support for democracy, human rights and to the humanitarian concern about indiscriminate lethal force aimed at unarmed civilians. our position is the same as with all other arab spring countries: we have no hidden agenda, but we cannot remain idle in the face of a massacre of such scale which is tantamount to a crime against humanity. the eu is correctly following and supporting the arab league’s initiatives and its plan for a political and peaceful transition and for un-arab league cooperation on the ground. we commend the high representative’s statement for further sanctions and restrictive measures to be introduced and her intentions to get together with all the other international actors concerned for concerted action to end this intolerable repression. no regime which turns its military might against its own people has survived, and nor will this one.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. but the question is to ourselves. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the european union is not doing the right thing because it has not succeeded in having a common will, a real common foreign policy and a real force to implement this common will in the direction of international law, and because, in this conflict of the great powers over syria, the european union seems to be merely taking the position of supporting some of the great powers, rather than having its own position and its own capacity, a position and capacity to harmonize with the law of the citizens, in the specific case of syria. and if we look at what happened with the arab spring in the other countries in the region, i don't think we can conclude that we did the right thing. i would like to conclude by saying that if the european union does not have its own credibility and capacity to uphold the law, then it will continue to be in a state of life between the position of intervention and the position of passive observer: both are equally damaging to syria.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, this debate is particularly important because it seems that the fundamental right of family reunification of thirdcountry nationals residing in the european union is under threat. it is a document that has been considered problematic by many, including the european commission. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the immigration policy and the credibility of the european union are already under such great test and challenge that no further cuts in respect for rights are needed. and a good place to start would be to not accept unfounded arguments. the reality is that family reunification covers a very small part of immigration and secondly that when the commission repeatedly asks member states for evidence of fraud, it never comes up, at least not until now. so let us be bold enough to institute equal treatment, the treatment we would wish for ourselves and to see things in their true dimension.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, firstly i thank ms in ’t veld for her report, in which she covered the whole spectrum of gender equality issues. we have already debated many issues thoroughly in the committee on women’s rights and gender equality and also in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. equality between women and men is a pillar of the treaties and of the charter and of the commission’s strategy for equality, but inequality in real life remains significant unfortunately. the commission has put on the table many initiatives to fight inequalities. i shall just quote some of them: the europe 2020 strategy, where everybody agreed that we need to reach an employment rate of 75 % by 2020. men almost tap this ceiling, but women are lagging behind hugely, most of all when women become mothers as they then work much less, whereas when men become fathers they work much more on their jobs, so something in our society is going wrong here. this is mirrored in the difference in average pay between men and women. this year we fixed 2 march as european equal pay day, because before that date the average paid to women was not the same as average male income. so we cannot continue to act as if this is business as usual because the difference has been maintained and progress is very slow. we also know that we cannot afford in our society and in our companies not to utilise the female talent. 60% of women are university graduates – just look at the top level – but you do not find them in our companies at those levels which should be normal judging from their education. we all know that we are running out of talent in our societies, so we need more than ever for the untapped potential of women to be integrated into our economic world. parliament has asked me regularly to propose legislation to increase female representation on corporate boards if self-regulatory measures fail. you also know that i started with a self-regulatory initiative one year ago, and that i presented a report one week ago, after one year, and progress in europe has gone from an average of 12% to 14% for women on the boards of listed companies. if i analyse where this progress has taken place, in three quarters of the member states matters are at an absolute standstill. progress has only been achieved in those member states where there are national quotas – in the netherlands from 14% to 19% in one year, and in france from 12% to 22% in one year, which really shows us that maybe it will be necessary to go one step further than just incentives. so i launched the public consultation – the first ever public consultation by us on this subject, by the way – and we are obliged to have a public consultation before we come out with a proposal. this public consultation is not about whether we need more women in decision-making at an economic level, but how we should get there. the public consultation will run until 28 may and following the input the commission will then take a decision on further action later this year. i count on the strong support of parliament to make further progress. to make further progress also in the political field, because there also participation by women is stagnating and no clear positive trends are being seen, several political parties have discussed the best way to increase participation by women, and six eu countries have introduced binding measures to increase the number of women in politics: belgium, france, poland, portugal, slovenia and spain. the only thing which is growing is the idea that increasing female representation in political decision-making is good for democracy and good for economic prosperity. so i would like to thank ms pietikäinen very much for her efforts to put all the facts and figures on the table, to analyse why the facts and figures, unfortunately, are very disappointing, and to trigger a debate which is absolutely necessary not only in this house but also in the member states – in the member states where women on average only make up 25% of members of national parliaments and only 23% of senior ministers. i hope very much that tomorrow’s vote will be a strong message to improve the representation of women in politics and a source of inspiration for all stakeholders involved at national level. we need this strong message because there is a lot of movement in our member states to get out of the actual situation, but they need to be helped and to be supported. i call on this parliament tomorrow to help them and to support them.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. madam president, it is true that progress towards achieving equal pay for work of equal value is slow. the average wage gap in the european union of 17.5% is difficult to bridge. equally slow is the progress towards achieving gender equality. there are considerable women's reserves, but they remain untapped in the economic and business sectors: only 12% of company executives and only 3% of board presidents are women. there is also an under-representation of both candidates and appointees in decision-making centres: 35% of women in the european parliament, 24% in national parliaments, 23% in ministries, 31% at regional level; the only bright exception is the nordic countries with 42% of elected mps. the economic crisis and budget cuts are making the situation worse and the old stereotypes remain. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. we therefore agree that more drastic measures are needed from governments, parties and parliaments. it is necessary to ensure women's economic independence and to promote women in economic and political decision-making positions. our group, the socialist and democratic group, supports sophia in 't veld's proposal to introduce quotas so that we have 30% women on company boards by 2015 and 40% by 2020. we support the introduction of legal provisions to ensure equal pay for work of equal value. finally, we support targeted actions and drastic measures to achieve the critical mass of 40% women in decision-making by 2015. we also agree with sirpa pietikäinen on the annual progress report by the equal opportunities committee, on the regular monitoring of measures by governments, parliaments and parties and we also agree on binding corrective measures and sanctions where the objectives set are not applied.
madam president, my voting record always shows that i am in favour of the termination of pregnancy under certain strict medical and legal conditions. i am in favour of gay rights and so on, but i am afraid that this report has missed the opportunity for the whole house to be in agreement on the equality of men and women because it touched upon issues of strict subsidiarity, which is not acceptable because it provokes this parliament to be divided where this parliament should have been united. that is why i have voted against this report and i hope that next time the opportunity is offered to deal with matters of gender equality the subsidiary issues will be left for each society to decide the ethical and social issues that are its concern.
the socialist group is in favour of developing partnerships with the countries of eastern europe. this partnership will promote democratic institutions, enhanced energy security and social and economic reform. the european union is committed to achieving political and social reforms in belarus in order to make the country's democratization a reality. in addition to maintaining the european union's hard line against the current regime of non-participation of the opposition and organised civil society in the political arena, the union is seeking to involve all belarusian society in the effort to realise the vision of creating a truly european country. the union's involvement in belarus needs to be pursued in a more coordinated and cautious manner, especially now that the country is facing serious democratic deficits. the contempt for democratic values and the rule of law, the violation of human rights and the imprisonment of opposition politicians which are now a reality in the country are reprehensible and deserve special treatment from the union.
the question is "blue card". madam president, the report refers to turkey and not to cyprus. i would also like to ask mr van orden, who is said to be an expert on the cyprus problem, to give his views on the presence of 700 000 settlers in occupied cyprus and the attempt by turkey to 'turkishise' the occupied area.
the question is "blue card". mr van orden, you have said that the known suspects are obstructing turkey's accession process. who are the known suspects? my country, cyprus, has not vetoed the accession process. who are the other suspects? can you name them? the second question is: turkey, you say, is making unilateral concessions. what unilateral concessions has it made to cyprus since it does not recognise it?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it is true, madam president, that the debate that has preceded it has led me to change my text a little and to refer to mr van orden's great regret at the isolation of the turkish cypriots. i would like to tell him that my struggles for the turkish cypriots are tens of thousands of times greater than his struggles for the turkish cypriots, and that their isolation, which exists, is due to the fact that there are 40 thousand turkish soldiers, who occupy this part of cyprus and who, by their mere presence, impose their will on the turkish cypriot population. it doesn't take much brains to figure this out: forty thousand soldiers out of 100,000 turkish cypriots means one soldier out of every house. think about it: is it possible for this thing to stand ? we are in favour of lifting the isolation of the turkish cypriots which is due to the turkish occupation. if you had come this morning, mr van orden, to the hearing organized by the left group, where dozens of turkish cypriots were present, representing the major trade union organizations and turkish cypriot parties, you would have heard the cry of agony of the turkish cypriots that today they are 100,000 amongst another 500,000 turks. how is it possible that this community has voluntary faith and will for the development of things in cyprus? i do not think it takes much to show that the turkish cypriot community is a prisoner of the occupation, much more so, if you will, than the greek cypriot community. i now come to the report on which - without any doubt - mrs oomen-ruijten has worked very hard. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. we cannot remain silent on the problems facing the kurdish population of turkey, which is ten million people. why does turkey not give the same rights to the turkish cypriots (which i am the first to ask for) and to the kurds, mr van orden? why doesn't she apply them to her own population? the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the refusal of turkey to have any contact with the country which will be the president of the republic of cyprus in a few months' time is not only an insult to cyprus, but also to us, to our institutions, to the european union itself, to the way in which it operates. i would like to conclude by saying that we are in favour of turkey's accession, as we have shown by voting to open negotiations on turkey's accession. it was a very crucial moment and cyprus has given this green light. but turkey must live up to its commitments like any other country. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer "blue card". the european union is not a party to the cyprus problem, but it is a party to the cyprus problem. that's her duty and that's what she'll do. i would like to take this opportunity to remind mr duff, who is also very distinguished, because he has previously mentioned why cyprus should not consider opening up capital when he is president, that i personally asked mr bagis in turkey when we met what turkey intends to do if cyprus is prepared to open up capital and he replied: 'we will not open up any capital if cyprus tries to do so'. is that acceptable behavior ?
the question is "blue card". mr kazak, can you tell us a measure of goodwill and mutual trust that turkey has taken after 40 years of occupation and colonization of cyprus? a measure of goodwill towards the republic of cyprus. can you name it?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. turkey cannot become a member of the european union, even if it threatens to annex the occupied part of cyprus, and this is not the fault of either cyprus or the european union. the violation of human rights is of course extended to cyprus and against the greek cypriots and against the turkish cypriots, and i wish you had heard today the anguished cry of the turkish cypriots about the danger of their annihilation by the presence of the turkish army. i am sure that the commission will be able to take account of the views of the turkish authorities in the future, and i am sure that the turkish authorities will be able to take account of the views of the turkish authorities in the future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial resources available to turkey are used to the full, and that the funds are used to the full. the european acquis must be respected. but how does turkey show its respect for our goodwill? how does he react to the positive agenda and the positive messages we send? in response to threats against the republic of cyprus, it is leading the negotiations to a dead end and instead of complying with un resolutions, it is calling on the legal residents of famagusta to return as citizens of the pseudo-state. so why should it be treated favourably? (the president cut off the speaker) (the speaker agrees to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer "blue card". the turkish occupation army forbids them to do so, and they have proved this thousands of times, both with the demonstrations last year in nicosia against the occupation army and erdogan, and with their presence today in the european parliament, and every time they have the opportunity to come here to the european parliament. they come here with the identity card and passport of the cypriot state and they respect the cypriot state, which unfortunately not many people here do.
mr president, forty years of talks to resolve the cyprus problem have passed, and the last round of talks has completed three years, with nothing achieved in relation to turkey's efforts to resolve our problem. the army has not been reduced. they maintain 50,000 occupying troops in a turkish cypriot community of 100,000, while at the same time they keep the city of famagusta as a ghost town without attributing it to its inhabitants and they keep nicosia divided and all of us here in parliament are fighting repeatedly for the israeli colonization of palestinian lands. unfortunately, the settlement that is taking place in the occupied territories is incalculable. the european union has also expressed its concern at the situation in cyprus, which is a major problem for the turkish cypriot community. we shall be here after five and ten years to verify that there is no solution to the cyprus problem. (the speaker agrees to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
answer "blue card". we were not against direct trade, the committee on legal affairs has decided that the legal basis of this commission proposal should be changed. we therefore want trade to take place in the sense that the legal basis does not give recognition to the occupied territories and i repeat that the efforts made by cyprus were not small. there is no response from a turkey where the prime minister says his aim is to transfer... (the president interrupts)
the european parliament has no right to turn a blind eye to the continuing violation of human rights in turkey itself, in cyprus, in the houthi areas. the european union cannot tolerate threats from a candidate country against a member state because it will be holding the presidency of the council of the european union. i expected the oomen-ruijten report to impose sanctions on turkey for not implementing the additional protocol, for turkish threats, for the continued occupation of cyprus. the absence of sanctions is discouraging turkey, as are dangerous reports linking direct trade with the sandbox issue and the opening of two new accession funds under the pretext of the positive agenda. already, turkey is preparing for illegal colonization of the closed area of sand koshto. what will the european union do in such a situation? will he accept a further violation of un resolutions or will he continue to talk about ... (the president interrupts)
madam president, in the wake of the arab spring, the european union must learn from past mistakes and not adopt a policy of double standards. it is right to propose that the monitoring of the application of human rights and democratization in the actions of third countries should be at the heart of its foreign policy. however, it must not be blinded when within the european union itself there are countries, such as cyprus, where the same human rights are being violated by the occupying turkey with impunity. the european union must enforce human rights protection and enforcement clauses in all trade and sectoral agreements with third countries. to impose sanctions by eliminating discrimination against women and minorities. the european union calls on the turkish authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the turkish authorities do not continue to persecute the turkish people. the european union has a duty to help the victims of the genocide in the occupied territories. to build through education a real culture of respect for human rights. finally, it must strengthen the role of parliament, accountability and transparency and find effective mechanisms for the implementation of human rights everywhere. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
answer "blue card". the position of the republic of cyprus is absolutely clear. cyprus has not exercised any veto over turkey's accession process. the turkish authorities have not yet been able to establish a legal basis for the transfer of the assets of the turkish cypriot authorities to the turkish cypriot authorities. if cyprus does all these things, which are the obligations of a candidate country towards the european union, it has no problem doing what is necessary in relation to turkey's accession process. the ball is therefore in turkey's court.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, junior army officers overthrew president traoré in a coup on 21 march 2012. the takeover grew from a mutiny calling for better weapons and better leadership in order to fight the tuareg rebellion advancing across the north. following strong leadership by the west african regional organisation, ecowas, as well as continuous pressure from the international community – including the european union and the united nations – an agreement was reached on 6 april 2012 providing for a return to civilian rule with the appointment of the speaker of the national assembly as interim head of state. he will then appoint a new prime minister and a government representing all parties. new elections need to take place as soon as the voters’ list can be updated. the situation in northern mali deteriorated very quickly following the coup d’état. the tuareg rebel mnla captured the three strategic towns of kidal, gao and timbuktu in quick succession after government troops withdrew. on 5 april 2012, the mnla declared the independence of the tuareg’s northern homeland, azawad, a declaration which was immediately rejected by the african union. we have also heard that the former prime minister of mali was arrested for the third time yesterday. the honourable members know that the european union has been concerned by the fragility of the sahel for some time. it has been increasingly clear that development and security have to go hand in hand. with this in mind, we proposed the comprehensive approach of the sahel strategy, which the council adopted a year ago, and appointed a senior sahel coordinator in this service. the strategy includes a financial top-up allocation of eur 50 million to contribute to supporting malian security policy. the crisis in libya and its fallout exacerbated an already-existing problem, causing well-armed fighters to spill out into a region where terrorism, hostage-taking, drug trafficking and criminality were already serious problems. coming on top of the recurrent food insecurity, a major food crisis has greatly worsened conditions for a large part of the population. throughout, our aim has been to work with the governments of the region. where the government is strong, that works well. but the military coup in mali undermined both the legitimacy and the effectiveness of the government as well as threatening the sovereignty of the country. i condemned the seizure of power by the military in mali on 22 march 2012 and called for the re-establishment of legitimate government and the holding of elections as soon as possible. the foreign affairs council of 23 march 2012 strongly supported the efforts of ecowas to restore constitutional and democratic government in mali. our development cooperation with mali was immediately put on hold. this did not affect humanitarian aid, nor did it affect any projects working directly with and helping the people. i have welcomed the agreement reached thanks to the mediation of burkina faso, acting on behalf of ecowas, and signed on 6 april 2012 by the military. i have also urged all parties – including the military – to respect its terms and to allow the swift restoration of full power to a legitimate government. i have spoken with president ouattara, who is acting as chairman of ecowas, to reinforce this message. i also discussed the evolving situation with the un secretary-general ban ki-moon yesterday in brussels. the inauguration of dioncounda traoré as interim president and the release of the detained ministers come as good news. however – as i have already indicated – the reports of the arrest of the former prime minister and of another senior politician are of deep concern. it will be on the agenda of the foreign affairs council on monday next week. as soon as the interim government is up and running, we shall discuss how best the eu can support the transition, including the holding of elections. the commission is now preparing to resume the suspended projects as soon as the political and administrative conditions are met, particularly as regards fulfilment of the agreement with ecowas to restore a legitimate government. it will be for the interim government to decide what support – including military – they may want from external partners, and from whom. we are already in close touch with ecowas concerning their proposals to provide support for the security sector, notably for the north, but we also need to work closely with all neighbouring countries – mauritania, niger, algeria, burkina faso and côte d’ivoire – all of which all have a clear interest in the events taking place in mali. such an option requires careful reflection on what the nature of such a mission should be and how to coordinate it with the necessary reinforcement of mali’s national army and gendarmerie. on 21 march 2012, the co-presidents of the acp-eu parliamentary assembly expressed grave concern at the deterioration of the situation in the north. it is not in the interests of the people of mali, the region or the european union for this to become effectively a lawless zone. the council has made clear its commitment to the territorial integrity of mali. a way must therefore be found to restore governance and democracy to the north. this is made all the more urgent by the increasingly serious humanitarian situation. overall, there are now over 200 000 internally displaced persons within mali, and more than 140 000 are estimated to have fled to neighbouring countries. for 2012, we have increased our humanitarian aid budget for the sahel from eur 45 million to eur 105 million. across mauritania, niger, chad, mali and burkina faso, the commission is implementing over eur 250 million in humanitarian aid and food security actions for an estimated population of 50 million people. an additional eur 9 million was added earlier this month for food, shelter and water for malian refugees and internally displaced persons. for now, our primary aim is to deliver quick relief to the most affected and vulnerable populations. the eu remains committed to the preservation of the unity and sovereignty of mali. it will remain in close contact with the new interim authorities in bamako to define the concrete assistance in all the different fields – food, electoral process security and so on – that it can provide. stability in the region is essential for all europe’s african partners. that is why we intend to mobilise all our efforts to find solutions, not only for the urgency of the next weeks, but also for the medium and long term, with the clear intention of assisting mali in regaining its sovereignty in the northern part of its territory and being again a true united nation.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the case of the recent coup d’état in mali highlights the important role played in recent times by peripheral african organisations – in this case ecowas – in exerting pressure on their peers to restore constitutional order and pluralistic democracy. coups d’état are no longer acceptable to african countries themselves. a similar role was played by ecowas in the case of côte d’ivoire. of more concern though – for africa but also for the security and stability of europe itself – are the developments in northern mali. heavily-armed and battle-hardened tuareg militias – which served as mercenaries in support of gaddafi and constitute an islamist fundamentalist movement supported by al-qa’ida in the islamic maghreb – have managed to take advantage of the situation and take over the towns of timbuktu, kidal and gao, unilaterally seceding and declaring the independent state of azawad. such a development is against international law. such non-recognised territories become safe havens for international criminals, terrorists and al-qa’ida followers, and would certainly be a destabilising factor for the whole of western africa from the maghreb to mauritania, niger and the whole sahel – an area known for kidnappings and lawlessness in the past. we have to be very clear: we support the territorial integrity and unity of mali, and any secession or unilateral declaration of independence is unacceptable. we have to support the constitutional president dioncounda traoré in order to restore the unity and territorial integrity of mali, and i am glad – madam vice-president/high representative – that you made this very clear.
blue-card question. – mr president, i would like to address mrs brantner. all i know is that last summer, cyprus suffered a terrible disaster, having confiscated a shipment of explosives in breach of the arms embargo towards syria. 13 people died. it was an economic disaster. this is the case as you set it out. the version by the government of cyprus is different. i will have no hesitation whatsoever in condemning my own government if the high representative – who is here – makes this clear. was it a breach of the embargo? (the president cut off the speaker)
the question is "blue card". mr president, i would like to ask my colleague, and i think she will give some additional information, whether she is aware that the republic of cyprus has already, through its lawyers, brought proceedings against the company which transported the weapons in question to syria and whether this, in your opinion, proves that the republic of cyprus also wants to investigate this matter. the second question is whether you know why cyprus is not a member of the wassenaar arrangement, whether turkey does not allow it, and if it were, what further information do you think it would have - in fact - to prevent us from reaching the result you are denouncing? (question with blue card to mrs brantner)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, there is no doubt that the european union and our parliament cannot remain indifferent to the massacres of civilians in states in our region, especially when these massacres are directed by the leaders of those states. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the council of ministers is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. how many thousands of dead do we have to put on one side to accept that this compensates for a controversial democracy that will come next? i do not think there are many in this room who believe that the 50,000 and perhaps many more dead in iraq compensate for the fact that there is today in iraq what i called before, namely a controversial democracy. we must support the view that there must be no arms supply to syria by any means and through any corridor and we must also support the annan plan without accepting any violation of it with regard to syria. it is the only way to understand what the weight of syria is in the region, and i do not agree with the position that one should not take into account syria or china. whether we like it or not, there are geostrategic attitudes of states in the security council and what we should be concerned about is the result. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in syria is not exacerbated by the death toll. if we exclude the possibility of arms being imported into syria, together with our insistence that the annan plan for syria must be fully implemented, this, i believe, is the only way to contain things and the bloodshed.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the situation of migrants in greece, madam president, says a lot about the situation in general. policies of economic and social inequality, repression, gross discrimination, exploitation, intimidation are just some of the elements that make up the picture. mass detention of migrants in appalling conditions, deprived of even the most basic necessities and sometimes subjected to police violence and humiliating treatment. but, even for those who are not detained, most live in conditions of social exclusion with no prospect of social integration. they are victims of violence and racism as well as exploitation by circles and employers. in the run-up to the forthcoming elections, injustice and irrationality are growing. migrants are being turned by the state into scapegoats for the crisis, into recipients of widespread despair and anger over misery. they are presented as a health bomb and as the ultimate agents of crime. the xenophobic rhetoric is being reinforced and the arrests and sweep operations, as they call them, are increasing, as if we were talking about trash. in the last quarter of 2011 alone, there were 60 incidents of racist violence in athens, which have spread and increased in recent times, and with the participation of minors. the responsibilities are important both from the state and from the european union. we hope that the solidarity referred to earlier by the minister will not be a mere slogan but will be transformed into a mechanism through which europe will come to the aid of countries which, for geographical reasons or otherwise, are unable to cope with the flows of migrants who are forced by the current world situation to seek a better future in europe. the european union is also committed to the development of a european asylum system, which is based on the principle of mutual recognition of asylum seekers and the principle of mutual recognition of asylum seekers. the european union must decide and prove its true face: intolerant and fearful or a place of equality and peaceful coexistence. the second way is perhaps more difficult, but it is the one we want and the one we must pursue.
mr president, climate change is causing environmental and humanitarian crises. it has dramatic effects on poor countries and populations. we are referring specifically to women because they constitute 85% of the victims of natural disasters caused by climate change and 75% of the environmental refugees. the report contains many good suggestions with which i agree. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. this requires specific research and gender expertise to develop sound strategies for preventing and managing natural disaster risks, to manage environmental migration properly and to ensure adequate funding from funds and instruments directly linked to climate. my view is that the european union must integrate the gender dimension into targeted climate policies in order to provide solutions.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, for how long will lampedusa be considered an unsafe harbour? in the meantime migrants and asylum seekers still risk their lives at sea to reach it. can the unsafe harbour status not be lifted before the works to restore the reception centre are finalised, given that the extent of the damage was very limited in any case? is it really not possible to use other housing facilities with appropriate reception conditions in the meantime? the residence used for the latest arrivals from the horn of africa does not provide for legal and medical assistance. when will we know the exact numbers for arrivals in lampedusa, the numbers hosted in different centres and the reasons why asylum seekers are detained in closed centres until their asylum applications are completed? given that italy received about eur 20 million in eu funds in 2011 in relation to migration and asylum, i find it shocking that such information is not collected or else not divulged to us. how can we assess the situation and define an appropriate course of action without clear figures? the letter refers to past readmission agreements with libya but does not mention the new agreement reached during the minister’s recent visit to libya. is the commission aware of this new agreement? is it a new agreement or simply the reactivation of the agreement concluded with gaddafi? which arrangements are foreseen therein? the commission must ask italy to inform it accordingly.
mr president, today is europe day. however, just a few weeks before the republic of cyprus takes over the presidency of the european council, the turkish occupation continues to provoke cyprus, dynamiting the climate in our wider geostrategic area. in the absence of any agreement on the matter, the commission has decided to initiate proceedings under article 93 (2) of the treaty in respect of the infringement of article 85 (3) of the treaty. i strongly condemn the new challenges of turkey, a country under accession. i call on you to protect the dignity of the european union itself, the entity of the republic of cyprus and peace in the region. i call on the european union to put pressure on turkey to stop its provocations and to impose severe sanctions if it does not. the turkish adventurism is a threat to the european legal order. we must react.
mr president, i welcome the conclusions of the general affairs council of 14 may 2012 on the middle east peace process, which reiterates the european union's commitment to the two-state solution and expresses concern that this solution is being undermined by settlement and the demolition of homes and other infrastructure in the so-called area c. at the same time, diplomats in the region report that at least 62 infrastructure including water tanks and sanitation systems that had been funded by the european union and its member states were demolished by israel in 2011, in addition to hundreds of homes and agricultural and livestock facilities. over the past ten years, the israeli occupation forces have destroyed projects financed by the european union worth eur 50 million. at the moment, 110 infrastructure has received demolition orders from the israeli authorities and is in danger of being reduced to rubble at any moment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i ask the council and the commission: what action do they intend to take to protect the projects built with the money of european citizens?
mr president, the free and democratic elections in france, finland, the netherlands and greece have demonstrated the growing protest of citizens against the strict austerity and the failed recipes for structural reform and strict budgetary discipline followed up to now at european level. the new wind of change in france and elsewhere is renewing hope that neoliberal policies will finally end and that europe will reenter the logic of growth, employment and genuine social solidarity. i hope that greece will soon, on 17 june, have a government and remain in the euro, because any departure from it will have negative knock-on effects on the countries of the european north, the euro area and the systemic stability of the european financial system. the blatant blackmailing of mrs merkel and other officials against the greek people is unnecessary and unacceptable.
madam president, turkey, as a candidate country, is obliged to abide by the acquis communautaire. it must respect human rights, including women’s rights and gender equality. it must implement legislative reforms and empower women in social, economic and political life so as to reach the objectives of europe 2020. turkey still has a long way to go. according to progress reports on turkey for 2010 and 2011, turkey needs to implement the existing legal framework in order to fight honour killings, forced marriages and violence against women, and to combat female illiteracy, discrimination, stereotypes and the very low female participation rate in the turkish labour force and in political life. we therefore call on turkey to implement comprehensive reforms, to fulfil the copenhagen criteria for the sake of its own modernisation and to establish a climate of mutual understanding and respect with all eu member states, thus making it possible to exchange best practices on gender equality with all of those states for the benefit of its own female citizens.
in writing. without any illusions about upsetting the balance in the financial sector, we could in principle support the taxation of financial transactions because we agree with the justification for the proposal that the financial sector has been an important factor in the present crisis and that it should contribute reasonably to covering it. however, the essence of our position is that any revenue from taxation of transactions should be used to tackle poverty and social inequality and should be handled by the member states themselves. if the application of taxation is a blow to the revenue of the member states, because of the transfer of resources to the community budget, then that is what we are against. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
in writing. without any illusions about upsetting the balance in the financial sector, we could in principle support the taxation of financial transactions because we agree with the justification for the proposal that the financial sector has been an important factor in the present crisis and that it should contribute reasonably to covering it. however, the essence of our position is that any revenue from taxation of transactions should be used to tackle poverty and social inequality and should be handled by the member states themselves. if the application of taxation is a blow to the revenue of the member states, because of the transfer of resources to the community budget, then that is what we are against. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
madam president, i congratulate mrs bauer on her thorough report. the elimination of the gender pay gap remains a timeless demand and a painful story. the pay gap remains. it ranges from 4 to 27.6% in the member states of the european union. women are paid on average 16.4% less than men. progress is slow and negligible. since the root causes of wage inequalities are discrimination and stereotypes, social initiatives at national, local and, above all, pan-european level, a change in attitudes and effective action in both the public and private sectors, as well as measures to reconcile family and work obligations, are required. i support the development of a pan-european strategy to address the gap, which requires the european union to take a leading role in coordinating policies, promoting good practice and involving various social actors. i call on the commission to take the initiative and to review the legislation in force rapidly by february 2013 on the basis of the resolution, with an emphasis on the imposition of sanctions on those who violate it.
madam president, i would like to refer to a matter raised earlier by mrs miranda, concerning the sentence of leyla zana by a turkish court to ten years in prison. i will not repeat what has already been said, but i will stress that mrs zana is a defender of human rights in turkey, a fighter for the rights of the kurds in turkey and a recipient of the sakharov prize of our parliament. we demand that parliament monitor this process, that it ask the turkish government to take appropriate measures to lift the sentence and we ask parliament to monitor any further developments in the trial through an appeal procedure which i believe mrs leyla zana will follow.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the appointment of a european union human rights envoy can and should be a positive development, provided certain guidelines are followed. the most important of these is the accountability it will have to the european parliament. the second is the freedom of action that the individual will have or, more precisely, the freedom that he will acquire in the performance of his duties. the european union can and must highlight the issue of human rights as a matter of critical importance for the future of humanity. but to achieve this, it takes a deep conviction that political considerations - and i stress this - will have no place in the work of this commissioner on the vital issue of human rights. it is also of enormous importance who will take up this post, how accountable he will be to those who appoint him, how accountable he will be as i said before to the european parliament and to what extent he will understand that human rights must be respected in every part of the world and in the european union itself. i would like to conclude by asking whether the representative in question will have the right or the duty to see the brutal violation of human rights in member states of the european union by countries which have applied to join the union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, on the situation in syria, we condemn the violence and crimes mainly against the civilian population. the annan plan must be implemented by all parties and a political solution must be found to bring peacefully to an end to the situation which threatens the country with civil war and fragmentation. at the same time we are opposed to any military intervention. the situation threatens to have devastating consequences for the entire region as has already begun to be seen with events in lebanon, a situation which together with the israeli government's plans for a strike against iran is projected as a nightmare. israel in palestine continues to destroy on the ground the possibility of a two-state solution, which is a commitment of the international community. the recent decision to build 800 new settler units in the occupied palestinian territories is the latest such act. we condemn the expulsion of palestinians from east jerusalem, which is aimed at altering the demographic character of the city. we condemn the demolition of houses, the continued long-term imprisonment of palestinians, the continuing violations of human rights. we call on the european union to move now to recognise an independent palestinian state, which will ensure a peaceful future for palestinians and israelis and contribute to stability throughout the region.
vice-president of the council/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i would like to thank all those who have participated in this debate. the fundamental problem in the drc, as many honourable members have identified, is governance and, of course, we cannot ignore what happened in the last elections. so we have to build what i would describe as a more contractual relationship with the new government in kinshasa. that means also that we need stronger political dialogue which will be necessary to guide that cooperation. we also need to keep the humanitarian and security situation in eastern congo very clearly in mind and to continue to support the dialogue between drc and rwanda. the declaration that was made a few days ago is a clear sign that we want to continue to play a constructive role as a regional actor in the great lakes. i would also remind honourable members of the statement that i made on behalf of the eu on 7 june. what i said then was that i was very worried by information that the dynamic between rwanda and the drc might be endangered. it is very important that everyone continues their cooperation and makes sure that there is real transparency so that anything that has been done can be investigated. on the possible support of rwanda to the rebellion, we take very seriously what the united nations reports have said about support coming from across the border, so it is important to put an end to any or all support mutinies may receive. it is also important that everyone cooperates to investigate this possibility in all aspects. i am absolutely convinced that we have to continue to monitor the human rights situation, including gender-based violence, about which honourable members have spoken. it has to be a priority for the european union. that means too that we need to see regular political dialogue with the drc authorities and also with civil society. we have got to continue to strengthen the security sector reform so we can ensure that we strengthen the capacity of the state and that means that we impact on crucial sectors. we have to end impunity, end gender-based violence, end the illegal exploitation of natural resources and support the building of governance. i appreciate the continued support of the parliament and pay tribute again to the electoral observation mission, but let me be clear that any future support to elections must depend on the credibility of the process, the implementation of recommendations that have been made by the mission, ownership by the government and a profound reform of the electoral system.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, our overall strategy in afghanistan remains to assist the afghan government and people to be able to run their own country. ten years after 2001, we have embarked on what the bonn conference called last december a ‘transformational decade’, sustaining our engagement but changing its nature, and putting afghans more and more in control. there has been some real progress – more than half the country and half the people are already under afghan security control. but, equally, insurgency remains a major threat to security across the country. i want to extend my personal condolences to the families of the four french soldiers who were killed on saturday. many challenges lie ahead. afghanistan needs, above all, better governance. without functioning politics and institutions that can be seen to be legitimate and effective, the transition will not succeed. but we also need better action against drugs, better management of public finances, better rule of law and better human rights protection. continued and increased afghan leadership will be vital to meeting these challenges. as the transition advances, it is right that we look to the government of afghanistan to set out its own long-term strategy for the country. we are working with the government, member states and others in the international community to put in place a strategic framework and agreed priorities. we will play our part. provided the government of afghanistan meets its obligations, the eu and member states have committed to enhancing their assistance in afghanistan for the next ten-year period. we have begun negotiations with the afghan government on a new framework – the cooperation agreement for partnership and development – which will provide a legal basis for our cooperation in all civilian fields and assistance to afghanistan. we expect that assistance from the eu budget will focus on where we can add most value: on health, agriculture, governance and civilian policing. it is crucial that we have confidence that our assistance is being used for the purposes for which it is intended – to improve the lives of ordinary afghans. that is why we have laid such emphasis on the transparency of public finances. the arlacchi report – and i pay tribute to mr arlacchi, who is here with us this evening – is right to insist that we must, and i quote ‘ensure transparency and accountability in relation to the assistance provided to the afghan government, international organisations and ngos’. i have read the allegations of mismanagement of the law and order trust fund by undp with grave concern. i welcome the fact that a full investigation has been announced, and we will await the conclusions of that investigation and take action as appropriate. of course, we are now in the midst of three different conferences that will determine the relationship between the international community and the afghan government. last month, i attended the nato summit in chicago, where we set out plans to sustain and develop the afghan national security forces. both president barroso and i highlighted the importance that we attach to civilian policing and we announced that we would increase our funding for civilian police by 20 % for the period 2011-2013; and also that we intend to make an enhanced contribution post-2014. with both the afghan government and international colleagues, i emphasised the critical role that a uniformed police – distinct from the military – needs to play in any democratic society so that people can have confidence in the rule of law and the fair administration of justice. our eupol training mission provides important support to this role – training police and improving the links between the police and justice. cooperation with the nato training mission is working well and, as suggested in the report, we continue to aim for a more complementary division of tasks at both strategic and operational level. we are currently undertaking a strategic review of eupol and will reach conclusions on this in the summer. counter narcotics will remain an important element of our engagement. the problem of drugs cannot be tackled by crop substitution alone. it needs to be addressed in all our programmes. on 14 june, we will have an important conference in kabul which will focus on increased regional cooperation – advancing the ‘heart of asia’ initiative that began in istanbul last year. that meeting will highlight the important role countries in the region have to play in supporting conflict resolution, better security and development. the european union has much experience on how to advance regional cooperation and we stand ready to offer that expertise and support to afghanistan’s neighbours. honourable members will know that i have just returned from pakistan, where i raised these issues with the prime minister, the foreign minister and other leaders. i stressed that while we would continue our engagement, afghanistan’s transition could not succeed without a constructive stance by its neighbours, and we recognised pakistan’s crucial role in this respect. then, in tokyo next month, there will be the opportunity for the afghan government to set out its development strategy for the country. in tokyo, the eu will make it clear that our commitment requires a corresponding commitment from the government of afghanistan to make progress on the issues that matter to us: electoral reform; public finance management; justice and human rights. above all, we will emphasise that the focus needs to be on results. that means the political will to drive through difficult reforms, and it also means having the necessary security to allow development to take place, especially outside of kabul. in line with the recommendations of the report, the eu will press for better coordination of donor support, and a better alignment between the afghan government and donors on priorities. we will consider joint programming of eu and member states’ assistance as circumstances allow. the eu and member states are making a real contribution to afghanistan. the afghan government is doing a lot, but it needs to do more to fulfil those key commitments: to hold credible and transparent elections; to improve the management of public finances and to advance human rights, especially the rights of women and children. i want to end with a word on the role of women in afghanistan. i have met with representatives of afghan women on several occasions – and did so last in the margins of the bonn conference in december. their stories and their leadership are remarkable. afghan women leaders and civil society activists are very concerned that the gains and achievements women have made in the last decade are fragile. this will be a critical issue in any peace talks, but equally we must continue to focus on afghanistan’s governance and, in particular, the justice institutions: they are key to ensuring that the afghan government is able to respond to the commitments it made in london, in kabul and in bonn. this is one area where the eu can and must play a strong role. i believe that, in many respects, afghan women hold the key to the future of their country – and we need to do our utmost to support them as the transition unfolds.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, since the introduction of the counter-insurgency strategy in 2009 and the surge in isaf troops, tactical success has been achieved, where regions like kandahar and helmand are secure, by afghan standards, and the number of police and army soldiers has doubled. a phased transition of security responsibility from isaf to the afghan national security forces is on its way and, soon, 75 % of afghanistan’s population will be living in areas where the afghan forces have taken the lead on security from isaf, which will be completing its mission gradually by december 2014. in the meantime, we encourage an afghan-led and afghan-owned process of peace and reconciliation for a stable afghanistan, which breaks ties with international terrorism, and complies with the afghan constitution, including its provision of human and women’s rights. the insurgent groups are not the only adversaries of afghanistan: the narcotics network, the thriving corruption of officials and criminal networks are converging and mutually reinforcing threats. the afghan police force has to further develop and professionalise. it should evolve towards a credible law enforcement force, for the protection of the civilian population and the system of the rule of law. the eu and nato commitment to the stability and development of afghanistan, but also to its security, goes beyond 2014, with perhaps a shift from combat mission to new training, advising and enhanced assistance along the lines you have just described, madam high representative.
mr president, economic union can only be achieved if the citizens of europe, regardless of their country of origin, feel that their state is an equal part of this union. equal participation means a fair redistribution of european national income. equal participation means that german and maltese citizens participate on an equal footing in the election of the union's civil servants. for the debts of the states: if these debts have been created because the system has generated debts in one state while for the same reasons it has generated profits for another state, there is no other solution than to write off these debts. and finally, the european central bank to lend to states and not to banks! the needs and objectives of the union cannot be met by economies that deforest the well-being of citizens. for the union's method of financing: the successive adjustments to the system have favoured the wealthiest member states, because some of these countries, whose contribution to the community budget seems to be above 10%, actually pay less than 1% of their gross national income per capita. a system of financing the budget based on traditional own resources combined with the abolition of structures and deductions is considered the most appropriate, as it is closer to the principles of justice and solidarity.
in writing. the eu needs a strong budget to meet its political objectives. the long-term budget should be flexible enough to meet new challenges, and contributions from national funds should be replaced by other forms of financing. the budgetary framework for the period 2014-2020 should provide for 'enhanced fiscal flexibility both within and between funds, as well as between financial years within the multiannual financial framework (mff), in order to ensure the ability to adapt budgetary resources appropriately to evolving situations and priorities'. the lack of flexibility of the current system has made it extremely difficult to meet new challenges. the smaller the budget, the greater the need to reallocate resources to deal with unforeseen events.
in writing. the european union has both an interest in and a responsibility for developing and contributing to a legally regulated and transparent global arms trade. the arms trade treaty should be a major step forward in establishing high standards and criteria for the evaluation of decisions on the transfer, import and export of arms. the european union needs a treaty which effectively prohibits and controls the illegal transport and transfer of arms. the att should emphasise to states parties that all decisions to import, export or transfer arms should fully respect existing international commitments, in particular international human rights law, and be compatible with the charter of the united nations. the treaty should also ensure that states parties do not transfer arms to countries where there is a serious risk that they will be used to commit or facilitate serious violations of international human rights law and international humanitarian law, including genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes.
mr president, i wish to express my deep appreciation to my colleagues jim higgins, antonyia parvanova, raül romeva i rueda and joão ferreira, and to all the meps who signed written declaration no 11/2012 on establishing a european cardiac arrest awareness week. about 500 000 people suffer a sudden cardiac arrest every year in europe. bystander cardio-pulmonary resuscitation by lay people can double or triple the chances of survival. however, today, such resuscitation is delivered for only one in five out-of-hospital cardiac arrests. dear friends, together we can make a difference; together we can increase this rate and we may save 100 000 more lives in europe every year. (applause)
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the matter of the readmission agreement between the european union and turkey. i am pleased that the european union has a united position towards turkey as regards the scope of this agreement. as stated in the council conclusions of 21 june on the development of cooperation with turkey in the fields of justice and home affairs, the commission and the council expect turkey to apply the agreement in an impartial manner towards all the member states of the european union, including the republic of cyprus. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this two-step policy is detrimental to the consistency of european policy in this area and may harm the european union's relations with other third countries with which it has concluded such agreements.
mr president, two points from the debate. the ems is composed of taxpayers’ money. that is true. when states borrow from the ems to capitalise their banks, their taxpayers shoulder the debt in turn. when the banks can borrow directly from the ems, the banks owe to the ems; the moral hazard is far less. decoupling sovereign debt from the recapitalisation of the banks ends the spiral of excessive debt and increased mistrust from markets. secondly, the growth stimulus package is fine, but we are not reinventing the policies on growth. what is the scoreboard of member states’ compliance on the europe 2020 strategy? how far have member states gone in implementing proposed policies on the single market? what about the services directive, for instance? why do we create illusions and false dilemmas for public opinion? ‘stability and growth’ is the name of the pact that has existed for years: these are the two faces of the same coin. let us stop sloganeering and get to work.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also aware of the fact that the european union is not only a political and economic union, but also a political union. under article 2 of the association agreement, we must not upgrade our trade relations with israel, as long as there is daily evidence of human rights violations by it. such an upgrade both violates the agreement and neutralizes the only concrete tool we have at our disposal to pressure israel to comply with its obligations regarding human rights and humanitarian law, both within israel and in the occupied palestinian territories. we are therefore opposed to giving our consent to this agreement. the only condition on which the european parliament could agree would be to obtain satisfactory assurances that no israeli products, however originating in east jerusalem and the occupied palestinian territories, would be allowed to enter the european union. how will you ensure that products from the occupied palestinian territories are not imported into the european union with a false certificate of origin? will you create a simple, effective and reliable mechanism for determining the place of origin, i.e. for labelling products, to replace the existing technical arrangement as requested by the european parliament in its resolution of 10 february?
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - the mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european commission, honourable chairmen of the political groups of the european parliament, honourable members of the european parliament, honourable members of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, friends and colleagues, it is indeed a great honour to be here today, before the plenary of the european parliament, the fortress of the european republic, to share with you our vision of the union and to present the main priorities of the first cypriot presidency of the council. i express my deep respect and congratulations to the european parliament for the role it plays in defending and promoting the fundamental principles on which the european union is founded. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has also been active in the fight against fraud, and has been involved in the preparation of the european council in brussels. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cyprus is taking over the six-month presidency of the council for the first time since its accession to the european union, in very difficult circumstances for our union. the global economic crisis is affecting several member states, with the euro area still under the greatest pressure. the challenges facing our union require a european response from the bottom up. it is perhaps time to look for guidance in the starting point of european integration, when through the ashes of war, nothing was given. it is time to learn from the courage and foresight of the founding fathers of the european vision: a vision of peace, democracy, pluralism and social justice. in times of crisis like these, the need to achieve a more cohesive and effective union, a better europe, becomes all the more urgent. we owe it to the visionaries of european integration, but we owe it above all to our young people, our children and our grandchildren. the achievement of a better europe is a universal demand of the citizens of the union. we have an obligation to listen to our citizens and to do our utmost for a union which means more to its citizens. a europe of social cohesion, prosperity, security and growth. we will work tirelessly this semester to promote, precisely within the council, and within our own powers, any legislative initiative which will contribute to the objective of a socially cohesive and effective union. a union with more visible benefits for the well-being of european citizens. this is our overall political objective during the six months of the cypriot presidency and we really hope that we have the support and help of all the institutions and especially of the european parliament in this endeavour. it is true that the european construction has been through many crises since its inception. however, the continuing socioeconomic crisis, largely a consequence of the global economic crisis, appears to be the greatest comparative challenge facing the european union since its founding. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. at the same time, there have been cracks in the institutional unity of the union due to the different approaches taken to the measures to be taken as a matter of immediate priority to stabilise the situation. i am convinced that it is necessary to support the cohesion and unity of the member states. together, we can definitely do better. i am convinced that the european union will successfully overcome the difficulties it is facing. the european union has no choice but to emerge stronger from the current crisis. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on the matter. but we will be able to meet the challenges successfully if we collectively demonstrate the necessary trust in the common european institutions, in the institutions of the union. the community method has proved over time to be a powerful weapon in defending our common interests and should be protected at all costs. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is a step in the right direction. i believe that in order to successfully treat the wounds caused by the crisis, we must also make a proper diagnosis of the causes. we must jointly undertake a bold and in-depth analysis of the nature and extent of the socioeconomic crisis. in my view, we should have the strength to even self-criticise, at national and european level, the possible political inaction or the weaknesses of the policies implemented in europe, especially in the last two decades. it is difficult to deny that the policies implemented in recent years, which have promoted a model of absolute and dogmatic attachment to the free market without any social and state controls, have failed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it has been shown that the measures taken in recent years have been ineffective in analysing the crisis on the basis of the practice of blaming only speculators and sometimes the markets. the austerity policies implemented to deal with the crisis are not only proving incapable of solving the problems, but are actually aggravating them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the economy and sustainable development must serve society. the wealth produced must be distributed more fairly. the approach cannot be 'socialising losses and privatising profits'. we cannot put the burden of the current crisis on the shoulders of all those who are barely making a living. the ordinary citizens of the member states of the union are the last to be blamed for the inherent weaknesses which have proved to be a burden on the creation of economic and monetary union. in any case, we have a moral and political obligation to share the burden of the crisis fairly and, certainly, to protect the economically and socially vulnerable sections of the population. let me say, dear friends, that i am deeply shocked every time we see on our television sets images of suffering, with lines of people crowding into social pantries to secure a meal, in fact a survival ration. it is insulting to say the least that we are tolerating such a situation in europe. we cannot stand by while poverty leads to the social exclusion and impoverishment of large sections of the population of europe. from this official step, i invite you, my friend, president of the european commission, to work together to find ways of extending and at the same time strengthening the food aid programme for our needy fellow citizens using agricultural intervention products. i would be the happiest of europeans if by the end of the cypriot presidency we were able to achieve tangible results on this programme, or by adopting other parallel actions of equal effect, on the basis of legislative initiatives from the commission, thus limiting as much as possible this important social problem, which of course is not solved in this way. the main thing, therefore, in my view, is a fairer redistribution of income, a coherent and more people-centred social policy which, together with support for small and mediumsized enterprises, the backbone of the european economy, will lead to more employment and the much-discussed social cohesion within our union. on the contrary, particularly in the last year, with the contribution of all, and especially of the european commission, actions have been promoted to accelerate structural reforms and to create better conditions for competitiveness and growth for the european economy and in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. actions that we expect will lead to increased employment, especially for young people, and a greener economy. all this is in addition to the priority measures taken to deal with the debt crisis. the question is therefore to reconcile the approach to budgetary discipline, because yes, it is important to reduce waste and to manage our public finances, with the approach to implementing a strong growth strategy and creating new jobs in europe. as the presidency of the council, we look forward to working closely with you, honourable members of the european parliament, in order to promote, in cooperation with the european commission, actions aimed at reducing the social pressure which has been created in so many countries of our union and which, unfortunately, most often affects the younger generation, our children, the future of our europe. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council at the next partsession. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely in this context of the quest for a better europe that the cyprus presidency has set four main priorities: the first priority: a more efficient and sustainable europe. the cyprus presidency will focus on the multiannual financial framework (2014-2020), with the ultimate aim of completing the negotiations and creating a fair and efficient union budget, leading to growth and jobs. the presidency will seek to achieve progress in the negotiations on the legislative framework for the common policies of the programming period, such as the common agricultural and fisheries policy, cohesion policy and research and innovation policies. energy policy is of particular importance, as are the facilitation of 'connecting europe' and the trans-european transport, telecommunications and energy networks, which will contribute to the development of competitiveness and further integration of the european union. sustainable development will be an important topic during the cyprus presidency, in view of the need for an integrated approach to transport, climate change, environment and energy policies. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the european council will also be holding a special meeting in limassol, in the presence of the president of the european commission, mr barroso, where a declaration will be adopted. the second priority is a europe with a more efficient, growth-oriented economy. the economic crisis has highlighted the need for more effective union policies. the presidency will attach particular importance to monitoring the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. in addition, strengthening economic growth and promoting employment opportunities is of major importance to the cypriot presidency. financial services are also an important topic in our programme, as they will contribute to consumer and investor protection and enhance market transparency. the presidency, on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the single market, will also promote the deepening of the internal market with a view to revitalising the european economy and bringing about social progress and supporting the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises and consumers. the single market is undoubtedly the firm foundation of european integration. in particular, in times of economic crisis, we need to improve the single market by emphasising the need to strengthen european competitiveness. priority three: a europe that means more to its citizens, with solidarity and social cohesion. one of the important priorities of the cyprus presidency is to strengthen the involvement of social partners, local authorities and non-governmental organisations in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular with regard to the employment objectives and the fight against poverty and social exclusion. we intend to draw on best practices, both at national and european level, to seek to map civil society involvement in the european semester process. social cohesion is an important aspect of the europe 2020 strategy and an essential objective of efforts to effectively exit the crisis, in particular as regards groups of the population at risk of poverty and social exclusion. in the context of the cyprus presidency's priority to strengthen social cohesion, we will focus on continuing work to combat child poverty and in particular on promoting the well-being of children. the european council welcomes the commission's proposal to establish a european agency for fundamental rights (fra) to support the activities of the european union's member states in the field of human rights and to promote the rights of older people. on gender issues, the cyprus presidency will promote work on the development of indicators on violence against women and will place particular emphasis on victim support services. the presidency will also encourage discussions on the problem of the gender pay gap by facilitating the exchange of good practice between member states. one of the main objectives of the presidency will also be to establish the common european asylum system by the end of 2012, by strengthening cooperation between member states to protect the rights of those in need of international protection. in the field of education and culture, the negotiations on the next generation of programmes 'erasmus for all' and the promotion of literacy will be of particular importance. priority 4: europe in the world and closer to its neighbours. the cypriot presidency will work closely with the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy and the european external action service. in this context, and in view of the major political realignments taking place on the southern shore of the mediterranean, we believe that particular importance should be given to the southern dimension of the european neighbourhood policy, promoting the union's relations with the mediterranean countries. it is clear to me, at least, that the arab peoples of our southern neighbourhood, who have risen up and are seeking democracy and the rule of law, should themselves choose, through a free and participatory process, their regime of governance. it is a strategic mistake, in my view, for europe to try to impose its model of democracy on these peoples. but what europe can and must do is to support the vision of young people who express the arab vision of creating pluralist societies, of which respect for human rights is a fundamental element. the cyprus presidency will also promote the necessary processes for the enlargement process, which is indeed one of the most successful policies of the union. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of europe, and it is not only the european parliament that has been involved in the debate, but also the european parliament itself. in plato's republic, the great philosopher of antiquity, socrates is asked: what is the meaning of life? " and socrates answers directly: "being a good athenian". and what is he, socrates, the good athenian? plato asks again. the answer, my friends, was simple but full of timeless meaning and purpose: a good athenian is one who leaves athens a better place than he found it. very simple, very right, very nice. the athens of socrates and plato is of course today our common achievement, the european union. as europe's leaders, we have a duty to work tirelessly to make our europe a better place for all european citizens and, above all, for future generations. with innovative and ground-breaking policies that put people and their reasonable needs at the centre, we can achieve sustainable economic growth with social cohesion. as you have heard from the priorities i have just mentioned, the cyprus presidency has drawn up an admittedly ambitious programme. we are aware of the very difficult times and the challenges we face at european level. as you know, my country faces an additional challenge because of the problem of the anachronistic division, because of the continuing turkish occupation of the northern part of the island. but i would like to assure you categorically that we will not spare any effort and will not allow the problems that the occupying power may try to create to distract us from the exercise of a truly european presidency. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, the cypriot presidency will endeavour to contribute to the best of its powers and responsibilities to the achievement of a better europe for the benefit of the european citizens. in the six months ahead, with the help and support of all of you, the institutional actors, civil society and, of course, you, the members of the european parliament, we can make a significant contribution to achieving this great common objective. thank you very much.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me start by expressing to president christofias and the cyprus government my and the commission’s full support for this council presidency. we will work with you in the spirit of full loyalty and we wish you every possible success. this will be in the interest of your country, and in the interest of the eu as a whole. holding the presidency of the council is always a challenge, for bigger and smaller countries, for older and less old member states. and it is only natural that this challenge is redoubled when it is for the first time, and taking place in the current economic context. this being said, i have a lot of confidence in the readiness of cyprus to take on this great responsibility. not only was i reassured by president christofias’s presentation today, by his statements regarding his commitment to the european project and the community method, i can also tell you that the cyprus authorities started preparations almost three years ago. in the intervening period the cyprus authorities and the commission at political and technical levels have enjoyed a close, fruitful cooperation. tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow, the college of commissioners will meet the presidency team in nicosia, where i will have the opportunity to express my appreciation for their very competent work of preparation. immediately after this moment of inauguration, we need to continue our work. i very much appreciate that the cyprus presidency correctly grasps the right challenges to tackle and the priorities to work on. the commission shares the objectives of the presidency aimed at a stronger, more competitive europe, based on sustainable growth, solidarity and social inclusion, a europe which is a major international partner on the global stage as well as in its neighbourhood. these objectives call for actions, actions which are enshrined in the logic of the three-part approach which the commission has championed for a long time and which we have to work on for the european union as a whole – sound public finances, deep structural reforms and targeted investment. focusing on these areas and maximising their impact will go a long way towards a successful cyprus presidency of the council. for a successful presidency it will be very important to focus on those key legislative proposals where tangible results can be achieved by the end of 2012. first and foremost, we have the multiannual financial framework, one of our primary instruments for value-adding investments at european level and for growth and jobs in europe. let us do our utmost to reach agreement on the mff by the end of this year. i know it is extremely challenging but it is possible. this would send a clear signal that, when it comes to growth, we are committed to action, not limited to rhetoric. reaching a deal by the end of the year – not any deal, i mean a good or even a very good deal – would do a great service to the european union as a whole and it would be a success for the cyprus presidency. in the coming days the commission will present updated financial figures for our mff proposal which will include the impact of the accession of croatia in 2013 and will take account of the latest national and regional statistical data. whilst these changes will be extremely marginal in overall amounts, they need to be done for the sake of accuracy and transparency and equal treatment. on this basis the presidency will then be able to prepare serious discussions on figures as from the autumn too. i can only reiterate what i said earlier. the figures which we proposed last year remain fully valid. they are balanced, appropriate and realistic. they clearly deploy a sense of realism under current circumstances whilst showing the right level of ambition. i therefore urge both parliament and member states to recognise that what we have proposed already provides a very good basis for compromise. of course the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework are a package. in parallel to the overall framework, negotiations must be brought to an end on the sectoral proposals on the main european common policies. these policies lie at the heart of our efforts to support growth and employment. for this reason we need in parallel to make substantial progress on the next generation of structural funds, the reform of the cap, the common fisheries policy, horizon 2020 for results and innovation, the connecting europe facility and the relevant trans-european networks. nor must we neglect our external financial instruments as an important element in our external policy. with the overall mff and almost 70 sectoral programmes we have a formidable list of work to accomplish. it will require a great effort on the part of the council presidency, an effort which we in the commission will support to the full. the multiannual financial framework is just one of our levers for growth and jobs. there are other critically important areas where we must speed up our efforts. i therefore welcome the fact that president christofias shares my understanding that we must work closer together among all the institutions, including of course the european parliament, in the coming months. this is the only way to achieve results, to results that are stable and binding and are not hostages to fortune after decisions are announced. continuing our work for growth also means pushing ahead in the coming months on the fast-track legislative proposals of the single market, what we have called single market act 1. in addition, the commission intends putting forward proposals under what we call the new single market act 2, and we hope the cyprus presidency will start work on these without delay. once again thank you for your very strong commitment regarding the need to deepen the single market, president christofias. as i said yesterday in front of this house, intensive work will continue towards ensuring stability of the euro area and establishing a genuine economic and monetary union. the commission will thus swiftly put forward new proposals concerning the first steps to establish what we have been terming a ‘banking union’, namely to create a single financial supervisory mechanism in the euro area, built around the ecb, based on article 127 of the treaty. at the same time, we will strive to preserve the overall architecture of the eu 27, soon 28, in particular the architecture of the single market, so as to guarantee the integrity of our union and naturally the full treaty rights of the european parliament. at the same time there is much to be done to build on the proposals the commission has already made on deposit guarantee schemes, bank recovery and resolution, stricter rules on credit rating agencies and on capital requirements, on markets in financial instruments and on market abuse. thus the banking union is very much enriched. we can do it very soon if we fully stand behind it and work hard for it. there will be a further effort needed to adopt the two-pack initiatives and to make headway on a financial transaction tax through enhanced cooperation. although formally both files are separate, both are essential. we can only call for greater solidarity if in parallel we are prepared to accept greater responsibility. i have only mentioned some of the most important areas on which we need to focus in the coming six months. naturally, i know, the programme of the presidency is much wider, but i think we should focus on what we can deliver in a relatively short period. i should also mention the schengen and patent packages. i hope that on both we will eventually come to find better solutions than those which are on the table of the council today. i believe for a council presidency to have success it needs determination and focus. six months pass extremely quickly. yesterday at a meeting with president christofias and president schulz, i mentioned that this will be the 17th council presidency i have been following closely, and i can tell you the successful presidencies were the ones which were able to focus. let us use this period in the most productive and effective way. the commission will help you achieve as much as possible in this endeavour and i am sure the european parliament will do so also. (applause)
blue-card question. – sir graham, do you not think that by addressing this criticism to a presidency that has not even started is not objective and fair? do you not think this to be the case, particularly when the criticism is coming from you, who represents a country that has been a colonial power that bears part of the responsibility of the division of this island, with a policy of divide and rule?
mr president, cyprus is taking over the presidency with determination and humility, ready to meet the challenges of the institution. mr president of the republic of cyprus, you have outlined the priorities of your presidency: the multiannual financial framework, common asylum, the promotion of the capital of the agricultural policy, the single shipping policy, energy, etc. the planned meeting of the foreign ministers of the member states of the union and the arab league shows the great interest in the countries of the 'arab spring'. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. we regret turkey's attitude towards the presidency. he has no respect for the institution. the presidency is an institution of the union and for six months it is not the country with the bilateral differences that turkey might have. the traditional view is that each presidency should put its own national problems aside and concentrate on the problems of europe, and that is what you have said you are going to do. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. cyprus is called upon to demonstrate that its presidency is a serious and reliable partner. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is not the only one to be affected by the crisis, and that the european union is not the only one to be affected by the crisis. statements of their own. unfortunately, the start of the presidency coincides with the deadline for recapitalising banks across europe. that leads us to the support mechanism. but the economy of cyprus was destroyed in 1974 by the turkish invasion and the industriousness of the cypriot people created an economic miracle. he'll do it again in years to come! (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
blue-card answer to nicole sinclaire. – because of the presence of british bases in cyprus, relations between the uk and cyprus should be, and they are, the best relations. comments coming from representatives of the british people should leave the things of the past in the past and not be reminiscing about the policy of divide and rule for the division of cyprus for which they bear part of the responsibility.
mr president, i too would like to welcome the president of the republic of cyprus to the european parliament. i would like to say that mr christophersen's position on the programme he will be pursuing for the six-month presidency of cyprus is a progressive one, highlighting the important problems of the union, and in particular the great economic crisis which it is tackling in a progressive and democratic way. in short, it does not accept the policy of severe austerity as the only way out of the economic crisis, but it speaks at the same time of fighting unemployment, of exploiting growth and of creating a new network within the union which, in fact, gives hope for economic recovery and an exit from recession. secondly, it shows respect for the principles of the european union of equality, democracy, solidarity and social cohesion. the same principles which today bring the president of the republic of cyprus here as president of the whole of the european union. so we're all struggling to grow our own family. we are all fighting for more europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the president did not mention the specific problem of the island, the cyprus problem. but it is a fact that the dozens or even hundreds of visits by members of the european parliament to the republic of cyprus today are a reality, they are a reality of the divided capital, nicosia, the only divided capital in the world. they see the strong turkish occupation presence. the turkish occupation army, 45,000 strong, to protect - allegedly and in quotes - a turkish cypriot community of 100,000. we are fighting more than anyone for the turkish cypriot community, because we believe that through it we can solve the cyprus problem. turkey, on the other hand, does not recognise the republic of cyprus; the european union is not, as we speak, recognising the presidency of the european union itself. the only thing he's concerned with is the gradual settlement of the island and the changing demographic character of the island. 700,000 settlers are currently in the occupied territories. it would be paradoxical - and it is paradoxical - if there were members of parliament or even leaders of political groups, such as mr watson, who treated the cyprus problem as if it had been created by the cypriots. i would like to conclude with an academic question: will turkey's accession process continue unimpeded during the cyprus presidency? i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, i too would like to welcome the president of the republic of cyprus to the european parliament. cyprus is a small state of the european union, with an area a few dozen times smaller than almost any other state of the union, and a population equivalent to a quarter of the citizens of berlin and a tenth - if i am not mistaken - of those of london. at the same time, it is a state whose territory is occupied by a third of a country seeking to join the european union. but only if such a state is unanimously supported by the other 26 states and by all of you, fellow members of the european parliament, can it be shown that the union sees itself as a union of equal and solidarity-based states and citizens. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in cyprus and the situation in the other member states. we call on the european union to respond formally and clearly to turkey, which never tires of repeating that it will have no contact with the cypriot presidency, and the only answer is that the commission and the council must have no contact with turkey as long as it does not recognise the presidency of the union. today we are experiencing a crisis that is literally drinking the blood of households. there is a lack of so-called markets, and the complete lack of oversight of the financial sector leads to an increase in public debt, sending workers into poverty and humiliation. we call on the european parliament and the union to support the priorities of the cypriot presidency and its social message on the eradication of poverty, especially child poverty, the promotion of peace in the mediterranean region, and the completion of a single asylum policy. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in its long history cyprus has known many conquerors. and yet, it endured slavery and gained its independence in 1960. in 2004, with her sword, she became a member of the great european family and in 2008 of the eurozone. today cyprus takes over the presidency of the council. the european union is also committed to the development of the cypriot economy, and the cypriot people are the first to be given the opportunity to participate in the process of european integration. ready to face multiple adversities, the financial crisis, the debt crisis, the value crisis. we are convinced that cyprus will succeed because it has a great human capital, because it works hard and has a vision of a europe of peoples and values. a europe of growth, employment and solidarity. cyprus is fully prepared to promote the european agenda modestly, decisively and honestly. we also expect the european union to show more solidarity with our island. to recognise the geostrategic role of cyprus in the eastern mediterranean. we expect him to put more pressure on the occupying turkey to end the occupation, the seizure of property, the illegal settlement. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe to find a way to live in peace and security. the greek cypriots and turkish cypriots have the right to live in a united country.
mr president, i am proud to be taking over the presidency of the european council from my country. i congratulate the president of the republic of cyprus, mr dimitris christofias, on his inspired speech in which he clearly set out the objectives of the cyprus presidency, from the most grandiose - the multiannual financial framework - to the most humane - food aid for the hungry. cyprus may be divided, but it is not half as mr bagis tells us; and if it is shared, the wire-mesh on our island was brought by the colonial power, britain, which unfortunately remains on our land in the anachronistic form of british military bases. and for the suffering of the greek cypriots and the turkish cypriots today, the greatest share of responsibility lies with the turkish occupying army, which, as a result of colonialism, keeps the island divided. i would like to express my gratitude to president schulz for his firm, firm and fair presentation of the case of the turkish provocative attitude, the insults and the insult to the republic of cyprus in ankara, for holding turkey accountable not only for its attitude towards the cyprus presidency but also towards cyprus as a whole, towards the republic of cyprus in the course of time. i think that the european parliament should be held accountable for this, and i think that we should also take a decision to suspend the accession negotiations with turkey immediately if it does not comply. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the rapporteur. - the madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the negotiations on the establishment of a common european asylum system have been going on for years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of asylum seekers are respected and that the right to asylum is guaranteed. the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. the present report is part of this very logic of gradual progress. as a parliament, we are sending a clear message to the european commission and the member states about our expectations for a strengthening of solidarity in the area of asylum within the european union. in this text, we have succeeded in translating the abstract concept of solidarity into concrete terms, stressing the importance of a fair distribution of responsibilities between the different member states. we are now waiting for the commission to send us legislative proposals to enable us to continue the work we have committed ourselves to since 1999. i would like to take this opportunity to express my warm thanks to all the parties in this parliament for the excellent cooperation on this dossier.
madam president, first of all i am very optimistic about what i have heard from mrs ashton and i do not doubt her mood or her intentions. the question i have to ask is very specific and very clear: where are we going, how are we progressing, how is federalisation, the constitutionalisation of the european union being implemented? if there is no specific policy in this direction, i believe that the findings will continue and there will be constant wars, murders, as is happening today in syria, in africa, in ethiopia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i am pleased to see the support for the syrian people. the european union contributed a total of 240 million, of which 168 million was provided by the european commission. but it has been said that the priority is to continue the provision of humanitarian aid. my view is that the priority is to get dictator assad out. the dead don't come back, and they certainly don't need our help. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to put a question to mrs ashton: is there a plan for removal ? and if there is, what is it? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. − mr president, on behalf of mr šťastný and the committee on international trade, i would like to start by highlighting that my committee’s budgetary amendments were very limited and reasonable in terms of their financial demands. there was no request for any new budget line, except for a project on monitoring trade negotiations for civil society. how do we reconcile a dozen negotiations for trade and investment – where trade is considered a major source of growth – with cuts in this area? the inta committee has proposed slight increases in the funding for macro-financial assistance, external trade relations, aid for trade and the dci. it proposes that the ici and cooperation with developing countries not be affected by budgetary cuts, and it proposes expansion of the internationalisation of european smes and of the ‘euromed – innovative entrepreneurs for change’ initiative.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to express my deep appreciation to commissioner reding for proposing 2013 as the european year of citizens and for launching the biggest ever web-based eu public consultation on citizens’ rights. i thank the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent contributions, the danish and cyprus presidencies for successfully concluding the trialogues and the administrators for their valuable assistance. colleagues, eu citizens today feel disappointed about the ongoing economic crisis, rising unemployment and the lack of effective solutions. brussels seems far away; important decisions are taken for them without them; the lack of information and language problems remain persistent barriers preventing full enjoyment of union citizenship within the eu and in cross-border situations. despite the great disappointment, it is, however, encouraging that the vast majority of european citizens have not turned their backs on the eu. they still consider eu membership to be a good thing, according to the latest eurobarometer survey of august 2012. a better and deeper europe is, however, required. further discussions on european integration require strong democratic support. eu political leaders and institutions must endorse the concerns of 500 million european citizens, fulfil their expectations and regain their trust. at a time of economic, political, and social crisis only twenty months before the next european elections, putting union citizenship and participative democracy at the centre of the political agenda is absolutely essential. this is exactly the aim of the european year of citizens 2013: to mark the 20th anniversary of the establishment of union citizenship by the treaty of maastricht and to give a new momentum to the debate on union citizenship. all eu citizens must be informed and enjoy without discrimination all the rights granted to them by union law and the charter of fundamental rights, i.e. the right to move and reside freely within the eu, to vote and to stand as candidates in european and municipal elections; to enjoy protection by the diplomatic or consular authorities of any member state in a third country; to petition the european parliament; to apply to the european ombudsman; to address the institutions of the union; to enjoy the free movement of goods and services, consumer protection, public health, equal opportunities, equal treatment, access to employment and social protection; to enjoy the new right of the european citizens initiative granted by the lisbon treaty, and to strengthen participative democracy through access to documents, information, good governance and administration. in conclusion, all the initiatives launched for the european year of citizens should enhance awareness of union citizenship, improve understanding of european integration and enhance cooperation among union citizens, institutions and member states. as members of the european parliament – the only directly elected eu institution – we have a crucial role to play in promoting the aims of the european year of citizens 2013 by bridging the gap between brussels and member states, communicating the rights and benefits of eu citizenship, endorsing citizens’ concerns in formulating eu policies and promoting participative democracy. in view of the forthcoming european elections, we must raise awareness of the legislative powers of the european parliament and encourage citizens to vote so that their voice is heard clearly by eu decision-makers. a union of growth, stability and solidarity can only be built with the active involvement of well-informed active citizens.
member of the commission. − mr president, given the majority position in this house, we do not need to convince ourselves that the european year of citizens is a good opportunity to bring our complex institutions a little bit closer to the citizens of europe and perhaps to rediscover, as in the message from the nobel prize academy in oslo, the beauty of this project that i admired for many years from behind the iron curtain. i do not have to be convinced of the beauty of this european project. several pieces of information on the practical steps for next year’s celebrations: the eu media launch and kick-off event for the european year 2013 will take place on 28 november 2012, in parallel with a general assembly of the committee of the regions. on the same date, the commission is to launch the website that is a central hub of the year, with all the relevant information and the events calendar. this is an umbrella calendar, with any organisation or individual initiative allowed to advertise in the european year of citizens calendar. this is about interaction with the citizens, but there are also high-level presidency plans: understandably an opening ceremony in ireland, as it is the irish presidency that is coming up at the beginning of the year, and a closing event in lithuania in december 2013. nathalie griesbeck is right that the budget for the whole year is rather modest. it is eur 1 million, with additional money for this year’s preparations. it is not about eur 5 million, as was mentioned in this discussion for unknown reasons. i do not want to enter into a discussion on what is meant by nationality and citizenship. my understanding is that after 50 years of european integration the french do not feel less french or the dutch less dutch. i think that one can be a proud citizen of tuscany, a proud italian national, and also see europe as the common destiny of all europeans.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank parliament very warmly for the constructive spirit that has prevailed in this debate. let me assure you that we have, of course, full respect for dissenting opinions. i am really grateful to all the honourable members who have expressed a call for better information, awareness-raising and involvement of citizens. the cyprus presidency fully shares these objectives. citizens are at the heart of the eu in all policy areas. therefore, an initiative such as the european year of citizens is particularly welcome. following this, and as a first step, all institutions and stakeholders should cooperate in order to make the european year of citizens a success. furthermore, the european year should be the cornerstone, launching a long-term and interactive debate on european citizenship. a distinguished speaker – i think it was mr helmer – mentioned that the european union is not a demos. maybe not yet, but let us think. would it not be better if it were to become a demos through participation and appropriation by all? i could not agree more with what mrs vergiat said about the importance of this chantier which is only just starting and needs to cover all fields of life, in an interactive manner and in constant osmosis, thus contributing to bridging the gap between the institutions and the citizens, making the union more relevant and the european space a more friendly space for citizens and for their quality of life to thrive in. this is essential, now more than ever, given the dire times we are going through, with negative consequences in the daily lives of people and where we need to prove through effectiveness and deeds that the european union is part of the solution. we need to provide hope, and to work towards a better europe for all. i would like, once again, to express my gratitude to the rapporteur, mrs antigoni papadopoulou, for her comprehensive, visionary and far-reaching approach.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, i will not comment on what the eurosceptics have said, because we often hear that they want to leave europe. we will comment on what the majority has said, what the shadow rapporteurs have said, what the cypriot presidency has said, what we have struggled to achieve. we want a better europe, and because, as a cypriot, i feel that my own right of free movement is being denied in my own country, because i cannot move freely from one end to the other because of the turkish occupation of european territories (37% of the cypriot territory), i believe in particular that europe must be a place of freedom, of free movement not only of ideas and goods but also of citizens. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is why i am not going to be voting for the report. i welcome the fact that the cypriot presidency has been very positive in accepting our messages and has indeed done a very good job of closing this dossier. i hope that we will soon have the second report on european citizenship, which will contain concrete actions to overcome the obstacles faced by 500 million european citizens, and i hope that the citizens' charter will also be drawn up, because we need it. we believe in a better europe, we will work to make this a year of success and i am sorry that one million is not enough. i hope that there will be a second thought and that the amount will be increased, because we asked for five million and i finally heard that only two will be approved. other european years had eleven million, and even more, at their disposal. i understand that this is a time of crisis, but if we want the citizen to be at the centre of our policies and if we want more and better europe, then we need to take the right actions and provide the citizen with good information. we believe in participatory democracy and that is the way to a better future for the european family to which we belong.
mr president, with the bottom-up approach, step by step, during a period of four years, the jigsaw puzzle for fencing the monetary union with an economic, budgetary, fiscal and now banking union is gradually being completed. but the decisions are hesitant and sometimes ambiguous, the implementation very slow, while the markets are reacting with a speed we cannot match. the main necessity for the banking union is the moral hazard which exists in asking taxpayers to shoulder the recapitalisation of private banks, and even their rescue. the idea is for banks to borrow directly from the ems, under conditions to be established in the coming months and through a supervision mechanism at european central bank level, and thus to decouple the burden of member states’ sovereign debt for the sake of banks. if a number of banks now need direct support, this is due to the necessity of capitalisation at the new levels required and to the non-serviced loans as a consequence of the economic crisis. that is why this new mechanism should apply retroactively, covering banks that are now in this difficult situation.
mr president, the situation has been described here in black and white, and has been described by mr barroso and mr van rompuy. the problem is what we do after the analysis. you talk at a slow pace and decide late that you will take some action much later. never in the history of mankind has democracy been better used to the detriment of the city and its citizens. the possibility of direct financing of banks must be put into effect immediately. we cannot accept that the cypriots and the spanish should be burdened with the debts of the banks. you can't have a private debt become public. how much simpler can you say it? while you agree that this must be done, you leave it for later. do what you've always done. you think only of ruins. in addition, the proposal for 10% of the capital of banks is a proposal which 'pushes' the banks to stop lending. what else can you call this but absurdity ?
madam president, we are discussing the dac agreement today. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the agreement to include the palestinian territories, which are currently occupied by israel, and to extend it to include the palestinian territories. such a development would be contrary to european union law and international law, as it would force the european union to recognise the extension of israeli sovereignty beyond territories occupied in 1967, including east jerusalem, the golan heights, and the west bank settlement. it would also be contrary to the letter and spirit of the eu-israel association agreement, which clearly stipulates a commitment by the parties to respect human rights, an obligation which israel has consistently failed to fulfil. it has proved this very clearly last saturday when, as my colleague paul murphy has said, it violently cut the estelle's course in international waters. it is a matter of the european parliament's responsibility to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of human rights. the european union has an obligation to defend the human rights of a people under occupation and not to upgrade its relations with the occupying state. and if the council and the commission do not respect this fundamental principle, let us do so, as the european parliament, by voting against the protocol.
mr president, the acaa agreement is not an upgrading of relations between the eu and israel. it is based on the alignment of the legislative system of a country and its infrastructure with the eu. it is a process emanating from the barcelona process, extended now to neighbourhood policy countries, as stipulated in the association agreements; and it is a process that will apply to all partners as soon as the conformity assessment is completed. the main purpose of the union for the mediterranean, formerly known as the barcelona process, is not to deal with, judge or attempt to resolve the partners’ political issues, such as the middle east problem. its purpose is to create, through the association agreements and cooperation between partners, an environment of trust, détente and understanding within which the parties to a dispute can try to resolve their differences themselves. it would therefore be inappropriate to introduce political considerations in giving our assent once our question, addressed to the commissioner and agreed by all, has been answered: this agreement applies only to israel within its 1967 borders. the eu, a soft power, should exercise its influence in the middle east, avoiding what would appear as sanctions – which we know in advance will not work with israel, which has enough backing from the united states – through which we ourselves create a void. yes to more policy but not, as in this case, at the cost of achieving less.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would like to make a very short statement. i would just like to thank again the shadow rapporteurs and administrators for their valuable contributions to this report and urge all members to support and vote in favour of my report on the european year of citizens, because at this time of political, economic and social crisis, and only 20 months before the next european elections, informed citizens should be at the top of our political agenda. new momentum should also be given to the debate on union citizenship.
in writing. − the issue is not strictly technical but it has political repercussions. i abstained from the vote as i consider that the timing is inappropriate. it is unfair to approve a deal giving beneficial access to israeli pharmaceutical products at a time when israeli authorities are blocking such products entering gaza. my abstention to this agreement sends a clear message that human rights should always be at the heart of international trade.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her well-written report. the ppe group acknowledges that austerity measures are not sufficient to overcome the crisis. the s&d group strongly believes that there is a need to go beyond fiscal discipline. budget consolidation needs to be complemented by a social investment strategy that will address the social, employment and education targets of the eu 2020 strategy. we call for a social investment pact which invests in social and employment policies. the aim should be to create quality and sustainable jobs, reduce the economic dependency ratio in order to maintain a large workforce, and keep a balance between flexibility and security in the labour market. we call for economic governance to be accompanied by social governance and for the social investment pact to focus, among other things, on reducing the number of early school-leavers.
mr president, member states make cuts so the council’s logic is that cuts must be made to the eu budget and to the multiannual financial framework as well. public opinion should know that the eu budget is always balanced without deficit. member states make cuts in order to prevent or curtail deficit. secondly, this budget is, all but for six percent of administrative costs, a growth budget. funds for agriculture, cohesion, research and innovation and erasmus, are destined to be returned to the member states with added value. it is hypocritical to talk about growth and, at the same time, target these guaranteed growth funds. those who at least speak of more europe must see this antithesis. this is the first message for the council. the second message has to do with the image of europe. all the disappointment of the european citizens because of the euro crisis cannot withstand an impasse on the budget in the multiannual financial framework. all governments that believe in europe must realise that neither can the friends of cohesion get as much aid as they would have wished, nor can the net contributors insist on the cuts they initially planned. as always, consensus must prevail. of course, parliament reserves this right, provided for in the treaties, if governments have abandoned any consideration of the common good fenced behind respective national interests. as for the government of the united kingdom, the question is this. will they opt out with grace for themselves or take all of us down with them?
mr president, i warmly congratulate mrs coppa on her report on enlargement policy. i am, however, strongly opposed to paragraph 27, which opens wide the way to misinterpretation and can be used as a methodology to challenge the sovereignty of states, through references such as binding arbitration and recourse to international courts to resolve cross-border or other disputes. i am referring to the case of cyprus. while we have no territorial dispute with turkey and no dispute over our exclusive economic zone, turkey is clearly challenging our exclusive maritime economic zone by illegally occupying cypriot territory and by threatening us with war - with war cries. this is not the behaviour of a candidate country. i consider it my duty to defend the rights of my country and the rights and credibility of the european union and i stress that we cannot enter into any arrangement with an outlaw country whose primary pre-accession obligation was and remains the lifting of the military occupation of cyprus. the european union has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels.
in writing. − undoubtedly, enlargement has been a successful process for the eu and europe as a whole, in helping to overcome the divisions of the cold war, contributing to peace, stability and prosperity throughout europe. it is beneficial for the eu to have important partnerships, especially within areas of security, external affairs and energy policy, as long as there is mutual respect, fulfilment of obligations and commitments, full respect of human rights and dedicated orientation towards common european values. if a candidate country fails to fulfil the above, then it should accept that its eu candidacy will be jeopardised. this is exactly the case of turkey. the turkish pm tayip erdogan exhibits continually provocative and scandalous behaviour, by not implementing the protocol of ankara, not recognising the current presidency of the european council, threatening the republic of cyprus for natural gas excavations in the cyprus economic exclusive zone. moreover he is in favour of reinstating the death penalty. therefore the eu must be very careful with its present enlargement policies and procedures.
mr president, israel intends to proceed with the construction of thousands of settlement units in area e1, thus completing the perimeter surrounding east jerusalem and dividing the west bank in two. i call on the friendly country of israel not to implement this intention, because any implementation of this plan would be the final nail in the coffin of the two-state solution which is acceptable to all. at the same time, i am addressing president abbas and urging him to immediately enter into negotiations with the israeli government without preconditions, because only then will the real intentions of prime minister netanyahu be made clear. the time has come for a peaceful solution to a long-standing problem through negotiations; we call on the european union and expect it to exert all its influence to facilitate the processes leading to an agreed two-state solution.
in writing. the ageing of the population is one of the most serious contemporary problems facing the eu. it has a serious impact on population renewal and serious socioeconomic consequences. 2012 was declared the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations, raising awareness of the need for healthy ageing with comprehensive high-quality health care and support measures for older people. women make up the largest proportion of the elderly. despite their longer life spans, they are particularly vulnerable to fractures due to osteoporosis, arthritis, strokes, cancer, mental confusion and dementia. information, appropriate programmes and strategies for good nutrition, physical exercise, the fight against smoking and alcohol abuse, as well as close cooperation at local, regional, national and european level are needed to exchange good practices on the best possible ways of keeping older people active after retirement so that they are not excluded from society.
madam president, the european union's nobel peace prize is both an honour and a challenge. the price of what has been done, the challenge of what must be done in a time of crisis with high unemployment, poverty, the erosion of the social fabric, the sharpening of the inequalities between the european north and the european south. the austerity measures have failed utterly. the troika's recipes have proved disastrous. we need vision and more political and economic integration. the european council has to give us practical solutions immediately. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they promote double standards rather than firm adherence to principles. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, we have today honoured with the sakharov prize two individuals who are suffering humiliating imprisonment for defending human rights. millions of citizens are subjected to human rights violations and many forms of cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment. they are punished or face discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation or identity, gender or ethnic origin. they are victims of violence, modern slavery, exploitation or even ethnic cleansing. i expect the european union, which has won the nobel peace prize, to pursue a much more dynamic policy on human rights, not only in third countries but also within european territory. let us not forget that in my own country, cyprus, the fundamental right of every european citizen to live and move freely in his own country is being violated. the continuing turkish occupation violates the human rights of refugees, the missing and the trapped. what is the european union doing to end the turkish occupation of my country?
