madam president, i too would like to thank mrs. krista klass for her very good work. this report introduces new rules for the placing of biocidal products on the european market and brings several positives, most of which have already been felt here. these include the right to information for consumers, the prohibition of the use of extremely dangerous substances such as carcinogens, mandatory pan-european data sharing to avoid duplication and multiplication of animal tests, simplified data protection and harmonisation of fees in individual member states. this standard strengthens the position of the european chemicals agency, but at the level of the member states, the requirements to maintain the power to withdraw a member state's marketing authorisation for reasons of public health protection are also reflected. the 'submission fees' paid to the european chemicals agency for filing applications at national level have also been the subject of legitimate criticism. despite this legitimate reservation, we are prepared to support the standard.
madam president, european agriculture is going through a difficult period, partly because the european union as a whole has expanded considerably in the last decade with the accession of new member states. competition on the agricultural market has thus increased significantly and this competitive pressure is now felt by all farmers in europe. many of them cope well, but some are unable to cope with the pressure and are gradually leaving the industry. but this is natural and right, and any attempt to prevent it is, in my judgment, doomed to failure. we must help the agricultural sector by removing unnecessary regulations and quotas which are hindering the development of agriculture. the abolition of quotas and limits on wine, milk, sugar and others will provide an opportunity for growth in the agricultural sector as well. it is these quotas that are an obstacle to the growth of european agriculture, and similarly there is a need to facilitate the operation of alternative distribution channels such as yard sales or the successfully growing sales from farmers' markets in the czech republic and elsewhere. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8))
answering the question posed by raising the blue card. i am convinced that quotas cannot and should not exist in the long term, that we have a european market, a single, large one, and that quotas for these commodities are no longer needed. they were necessary after the second world war, when it was necessary to stabilise european agriculture, but today, in my opinion, they are no longer needed and they must be phased out, and i think that this will, on the contrary, lead to a better allocation of capital and to a better functioning of the market.
in writing. agriculture is facing an increasingly complex situation. while the cost of purchasing agricultural inputs such as energy, machinery, feedstuffs, synthetic fertilisers, pesticides, seeds, or water is rising sharply, farmers' profits are stagnating. agriculture uses a lot of energy. farmers are seeking maximum energy savings by insulating agricultural facilities, using alternative energy sources, etc. in view of the strategic position of agriculture for europe, the production of safe food, the provision of an independent livelihood for the european population, i ask the commission and the council to consider options for setting maximum energy prices for primary agricultural production. the second economic input factor is the cost of fertilisers and soil conditioners. there's room for improvement on the farmer's side. farmers are used to using large amounts of artificial fertilizers. reducing the use of chemicals at scale will benefit soil ecosystems and help natural regeneration. i therefore call for greater use of natural fertilisers and natural products that are already being produced as agricultural by-products. i also stress the support for organic farming. a third major problem facing farmers is the rapidly rising cost of seeds and planting material. this worrying situation is due to the massive purchase of certified seed and the low use of seed produced on the holding. the seeds produced on the farm are economically viable and environmentally friendly. i call for a review of all regulations that restrict farmers from using their own seeds.
in writing. the european space programme, led by the galileo satellite navigation project, has made considerable progress in the past year. the same is true for the gmes project, which monitors climate change and security threats. among the most significant achievements is the launch of two satellites in the galileo programme. but it is far from being just an expensive scientific whim. both projects have practical applications in a number of areas, such as agriculture, transportation, environmental protection and, of course, national security. moreover, the services resulting from these programmes have enormous economic potential and create new jobs. the european space industry alone had a turnover of €5.4 billion last year and employed 31 000 people. but like other research programs, the space program is threatened by budget cuts. by limiting these projects, the eu would lose many opportunities for economic growth, especially in the future, and i would therefore like to encourage adequate funding for the space programme in the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. food waste, poor health of the population, lack of mental capacity - these are just some of the manifestations of the crisis in the world today. as for food, then, at present, mankind is able to produce sufficient quantities of food in non-traditional ways, from hydroponics to methods that bear no resemblance to traditional animal and plant production. on the other hand, there are several billion people in the world who live on the same primitive farming methods that their ancestors did for decades, and many of them live on the brink of starvation on a regular basis. this world of irrational practices, which is dominated by neoliberal economic schemes promoted by the world's most powerful states, also has a major problem with maintaining and improving the state of the rural landscape. the elimination of food surpluses, on the one hand, the pursuit of at least minor socially desirable measures such as school-based programmes for the consumption of fruit and milk products, and, on the other, the possibility of using - albeit not very rationally - certain plant species for the production of energy resources, show that even a community as advanced as the european union does not currently have a recipe for solving this serious problem. perhaps only a radical systemic change of the economic system in a crucial part of the world would bring about a real solution. as this is an unrealistic demand, we support at least the declaration of 2013 as the european year against food waste.
in writing. according to the stockholm international water institute (siwi), up to half the world's harvest is lost between the field and the fork. i believe that the key to ending this waste is to set specific targets and to make food waste collection mandatory in households and catering establishments. this will require sufficient data on the amount of waste generated in each member state to enable effective statistical comparisons to be carried out. the commission must not delay with a new legislative proposal and must start collecting the necessary data as soon as possible. up to 50% of edible and safe food is thrown away in european households, supermarkets and restaurants every year, while 79 million eu citizens live below the poverty line and 16 million depend on food aid from charitable institutions. according to a study published by the commission, food waste will increase by 40% by 2020 if effective action is not taken. the fact that more than a third of what we grow is not consumed is not only a problem from an ethical point of view but also from an environmental point of view. each ton of food waste represents the equivalent of 4.5 tons of co2, wasteful use of water, energy and wasteful use of agricultural land. if we planted trees everywhere that currently produces crops that will never be consumed, we would, in theory, absorb 100 percent of the greenhouse gas emissions from burning fossil fuels.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the agreement on the mutual protection of geographical indications as it represents specific advantages for both the eu and georgia. on the eu side, this bilateral agreement should ensure that some 820 geographical indications of food products, 1 930 wines and 320 spirits from 23 member states registered in the eu enjoy protection in georgia, which is very reassuring for eu agricultural production, as its specific characteristics and quality are respected. the agreement can also be seen as a positive step towards the expansion of trade relations between the eu and georgia. in july 2010, the eu opened negotiations with georgia on a bilateral association agreement, which should also have a trade component, i.e. a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement (dcfta). before entering into negotiations on the dcfta, the european commission expects georgia to fulfil the set of key recommendations set out as part of the eastern partnership and endorsed by the council, in order to ensure that this eastern partner has the legal and institutional capacity to implement the dcfta. the agreement on geographical indications therefore provides for georgia's capacity to negotiate and conclude a substantive agreement with the eu on key trade issues, including technical commitments.
in writing. the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and georgia on the protection of geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs should be assessed positively, both in terms of trade relations between the two contracting parties and in terms of improving the protection of rights to the indication in general. this agreement is unique in that it is the first bilateral agreement of its kind concluded by the european union with a partner in the european neighbourhood. the benefits of the agreement for both parties are clear: for the eu, this means that in georgia 820 geographical indications of food, 1930 wines and 320 spirits registered at eu level will enjoy protection, and as far as georgia is concerned, on eu territory, the protection of geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs will only cover for the time being 18 indications exclusively related to wine. however, it is rightly recalled that it is the wine-making sector that has a special tradition and economic impact in georgia, which will undoubtedly be strengthened by the protection of geographical indications of georgian products in the eu.
in writing. on 19 january 2012, the european parliament's plenary adopted a recommendation for the second reading on the adoption of the draft directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment. the agreement between the council and parliament sets very ambitious targets for the member states and at the same time brings a change in the european approach to recycling. the main contribution of the proposed directive is that the recycling obligation will be extended to the whole spectrum of electrical and electronic equipment, including solar panels. the directive improves the categorisation of individual raw material collection devices, in particular by introducing a new category for small it equipment and telephony devices, which will lead to the use of the raw material thus collected for the manufacture of smart mobile devices and other similar devices. recycling natural resources will therefore be much more efficient.
in writing. - we are facing a substantial reform of the common agricultural policy which will have to respond to a number of important challenges facing farmers. in this context, i consider it important that this report analyses the structures and markets preceding agricultural production and proposes policy options that would help farmers reduce input costs, take into account increasing their independence and income, and thus enable a shift towards a more efficient and sustainable use of production resources. i welcome the call to the member states and the commission to provide more input and production cost data, which should then be analysed and regularly provided to farmers by the european price monitoring agency. price indices could also strengthen competition in the input sector and perhaps help farmers to escape the 'squeeze' they suffer from their position among the increasingly concentrated and powerful agro-industrial links that precede and follow primary production.
in writing. the fight against food waste must become a priority on the eu's political agenda. the commission, the council and the member states should develop concrete strategies and measures to reduce food waste in the entire supply chain by half by 2025, to improve the efficiency of the sector and to raise public awareness of this issue, many aspects of which are still poorly understood. it is essential that citizens are informed not only about the causes and consequences of food waste but also about ways to prevent it. a culture of sustainability and solidarity between scientists and other citizens should be fostered, thereby encouraging more exemplary action. experience has shown that spontaneous initiatives by voluntary or professional associations to raise awareness and to give substance to a culture against food waste have had considerable success where they have been implemented.
in writing. food waste is a serious global problem. it concerns the entire agri-food chain from producer to final consumer, ranging from losses in harvesting and storage, to poor product security during transport and incorrect packaging, to poor purchasing and use habits of final consumers. the paradox is that food is wasted in both industrialized and developing countries. in industrialized countries, waste is mainly generated during distribution and consumption, due to overproduction of food. in developing countries, food is wasted at the very early stages of the food chain, due to a lack of technologies, such as refrigeration, transport systems and infrastructure, and safe storage facilities. many of these things are beyond the control of the industrialized countries, which continue to produce excesses, and the world as a whole cannot be advanced in infrastructure and technology. but what we can do, and do it immediately, is to eliminate food that is no longer fit for human consumption. most of this food ends up in the mixed waste, and humanity is creating millions of tons of mixed waste that has no place left. the solution is to sort waste and biologically dispose of food. the recycled food can be returned to agriculture as organic fertilisers or as humus. i welcome the opening of a debate on this issue and will vote to accept the report.
expected the extension of economic sanctions against iran. i would hope, however, that the council would not take its usual route on this sensitive issue, i.e. if the measures do not work, the same measures will be applied, only in greater quantities. the council hopes that sanctions will bring iran back to the negotiating table, but history shows that these and similar measures have only served to deepen mutual distrust and advance the political and economic interests of individual great powers. moreover, following the recent escalation of the situation in the strait of hormuz, the negative impact of sanctions on the iranian population can now be expected to further strengthen the position of the current regime. unfortunately, i cannot help but feel that some countries are not opposed to military intervention in iran or even a state of war, but are actually supporting it for various reasons. this situation cannot happen. that is why i dare to say that the eu should stop focusing solely on iran's nuclear programme and abandon the current course of sanctions and more sanctions. on the contrary, dialogue must be conducted with a view to future cooperation on several levels, such as regional stability, foreign affairs, human rights or mutual assistance. a positive situation on one of these levels can then help where negotiations are currently stalled. building mutual trust and respect is the only way that doesn't mean an early armed conflict.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot help feeling that our constant effort to pass more and more resolutions on the situation in russia before the elections is already such a traditional rhetorical exercise. nothing more and nothing less. it certainly does not help our relations to improve, and our interconnectedness, especially economic and energy, is enduring. instead of constantly making recommendations to russia, we should also occasionally take stock of how quickly we ourselves are managing to solve the union's crisis-ridden, almost existential problems. and at the same time, to reflect that russia is gradually changing. i've known him for decades. not from a few hours of visits and prearranged meetings with selected partners. i know him well from the perspective of people living in russia. i used to work there. i know it's not even close to heaven on earth. the russians themselves know that. but rome wasn't built overnight.
i see a blue card here. you have the floor. you did. i saw you, you're the second to speak. do you want to answer the blue card, mr. vigenin? will you accept a question? as i said, mrs. gomes will take the floor after her colleague. do you accept the question? i'm asking you one more time. i'm not sure. so i'm gonna take the question off the table by raising the blue card.
the debate is over. voting: 2 february 2012 the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the eu's largest states have long suffered from a belief in their uniqueness, size, importance and dominance in the world. the author of the report, on his own initiative, understood this, and virtually the whole report deals with the possibility of avoiding, for example, the danger that the brics countries, regardless of the interests of the decision-making states of the eu and the us, become the decisive force of this world. some passages make it clear that the various levels of the eu will seek to achieve as much uniformity of opinion as possible, not only in foreign policy but also in other areas, so that the eu can act as the only sufficiently large partner. on the other hand, it is individual negotiations with individual brics countries to remove the danger of their unified approach. the committee on development understood that it was precisely environmental cooperation, regional cooperation and the introduction of systems to reduce social inequalities (point 1 of the committee's opinion refers to 'effective tax systems and social protection systems') that would mark a shift away from today's neoliberal capitalism towards something else. even the development committee didn't dare call this socialism, yet it seems that its members understood it. in any event, only dialogue with the world's most powerful and fastest-growing states will allow the eu and the us to fully engage in the future new world order. there is no need to panic, but the brics countries must be treated as full partners.
the next item is the report by graham watson, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on a consistent policy towards regimes against which the eu has imposed restrictive measures concerning the personal and commercial interests of the leaders of these regimes in the eu (2011/2187 ((ini)) (a7-0007/2012)
madam high representative, allow me to thank you for your closing remarks and for your congratulations, which i very much appreciate, also to my colleagues. allow me to also commend your stamina and vitality, because you've been facing questions here since about 5:00 p.m., and this kind of continuous work, where you have to follow the debate, is certainly very demanding. that concludes the point. voting: 2 february 2012 the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
i fully support the practical advantages that the form of collective redress offers to the european consumer who has been harmed, as opposed to individual legal dispute resolution in the eu. i believe that member states should do more to promote collective access to justice, establish alternative dispute resolution centres and support the tools for exercising their powers. i think it is important that, in view of the current increase in crossborder disputes, a crossborder mechanism should also be established and that the consumer should be able to make a request to any entity in the european union which is closest to him. this measure is essential, for example, for the application of air passenger compensation in the event of the bankruptcy of an airline. compensation schemes, which by their very nature are more efficient, less costly and more time-saving, offer a unique opportunity for the injured consumer.
the next item is the report by mr santiago fisas ayxela, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the european dimension in sport (2011/2087 (ini)) (a7-0385/2011)
i thank you, mr rapporteur, and let me also appreciate your report, and just add from experience that when i was a member of the council of europe we dealt with violence in stadiums, which is also relevant, and i think that some of the reports which the council of europe has already adopted on this subject would be good to take up and study and could be enriching. the debate is over. voting: 2 february 2012 the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is one-minute speeches on important policy issues.
- that settles it.
i very much support this report of the european parliament, mr president, on my own initiative, and i believe that it is necessary to continue this important and very successful programme. the driving force in the fight against violence against women and children are small ngos, which often have difficulty in financing projects aimed at combating violence. it is important that victims receive professional care in this difficult life situation. i therefore believe that ngos like this should have access to smaller but clearly targeted grants. i also often hear that small organisations lack the expertise to draw up a good project plan to make it through the selection process and the knowledge to do so. i therefore agree with a number of the important measures contained in this report. at this point, i would like to mention in particular the equal distribution of programmes across member states, the reduction of administrative burdens, the simplification of the application for financial support and the financing of national projects involving these small non-profit organisations.
in writing. the daphne programme aims to combat violence against women, children and adolescents. since 2000, the daphne initiative has been transformed into a multiannual programme for the period 2000-2003, with a budget of eur 20 million. in 2004 and subsequently in 2007, the daphne ii and daphne iii programmes were launched with an average annual budget of eur 10 million for daphne ii and eur 16,7 million for daphne iii respectively. since 1997, more than 500 projects have been implemented in different areas such as sexual, psychological and physical violence in families, schools and other institutions. unfortunately, only a very small percentage of applications for daphne funding have so far come from the new member states. this may also be due to the lack of awareness of the programme among the professional public. i hereby invite non-governmental organisations, research institutes, public authorities, schools and the media, and all other actors whose cooperation could be useful in combating violence against women, children and adolescents, to become aware of this eu programme and to seek its wider dissemination and, in particular, its exploitation.
mr president, the appalling crimes committed against women and girls under the guise of war and conflict are a clear indication that their rights are not adequately protected despite all the efforts made so far. sexual violence in the form of mass rape, human trafficking and other forms of sexual exploitation are still tactics of war in conflict regions around the world. we cannot tolerate such attacks on human dignity. i therefore wholeheartedly support the rapporteur's proposals for a code of conduct for military and civilian personnel, which clearly states that sexual abuse is an unjustifiable and criminal offence. it will impose strict penalties, zero tolerance for the sexual abuse of children, girls and women in armed conflicts and in refugee camps. i support the proposals to strengthen the participation of women in the leadership of political dialogue. the representation of women in international teams and in civilian and security missions should become a prerequisite for the provision of support in the peace process.
mr president, i recently took part in a debate on the energy policy of the european union and the united states. i can say that the americans are much better off than the european union because they have a clear, thoughtful and tactically actionable concept that we lack. i think what is needed most in our european union at the moment is a diversification of resources. it is a move towards new forms of alternative energy, such as genetic manipulation of bacteria, which is being investigated in the united states to produce diesel directly. it's about strengthening interconnectivity and building storage. i think that's a path that's been neglected.
mr president, i would like to emphasise that one of the prerequisites for ensuring the efficiency and effectiveness of the management of funds and for ensuring the effective delivery of humanitarian and development aid is an overall assessment of the needs arising from the specific crisis in a given region. there is still much room for improvement in this area, as can be seen from the situation in the horn of africa, where despite large-scale humanitarian aid, no progress is visible. nevertheless, a lot of money is still being given to this area, although it is not clear who the real beneficiaries are. there are no procedures or criteria to make the final beneficiary traceable and to define more specifically the amount of funds that would be appropriate to provide, whether in humanitarian or development aid. i therefore find it important that in the report the european parliament focuses on the audit of the provision of this aid as a whole and also on the audit of cooperation with other organisations providing it, including the un.
in writing. − given the growing importance of the brics and other emerging powers and the emerging multipolar system of global governance, greater attention needs to be paid to g20 cooperation. the existence of the g8 should also be used to reconcile positions with russia, so that common challenges can be addressed in a coordinated and effective manner. i support the parliamentary dimension of the g20 and believe that it should be further consolidated and included in decision-making processes to ensure more intensive democratic dialogue and stricter oversight. i am convinced that the current sovereign debt crisis will be an important test for the g20 as an effective forum for strategic political dialogue, providing a basis for addressing systemic imbalances that can be particularly damaging to developed and, in the long term, emerging economies, and promoting solidarity in international financial forums such as the international monetary fund. the eu should deepen political dialogue and cooperation with the brics countries, which would advance the reform of the institutions of global financial and economic governance, the bretton woods institutions, to ensure a broader representation of all member countries while reflecting changes in economic importance.
in writing. - given the increasing frequency of large-scale natural disasters, the european union must strengthen its capacity to respond to these extraordinary events. in this context, i would point out that parliament has for many years been working towards a more realistic humanitarian aid budget, which would address the long-term under-funding of the relevant budget lines, thus creating a certain degree of flexibility for financial decisions throughout the financial year, and maintaining the logical balance between financing activities aimed at preventing humanitarian disasters and those aimed at ensuring rapid response to disasters, whether of natural or man-made origin. in this context, i welcome the commission communication on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, which foresees an increase in the budget of the humanitarian aid facility to eur 6.4 billion in those years. the commission notes that the capital injections were made in the form of a capital injection of eur [...] million. i also find it satisfactory that the reserve for emergency aid has been increased to eur 2.5 billion and that a proposal has been made to transfer the remaining funds from the reserve to the following year. the eu budget should support activities aimed at disaster prediction and preparedness, prevention and accelerated response, as well as measures to ensure a more flexible implementation of development measures, which are one of the ways to overcome crisis situations.
in writing. − i would like to express my reservations about the export of the american institute for collective indemnity to the eu legal order. i'm especially concerned about the abuse of these class actions. moreover, it is not entirely clear what effects the introduction of such a system would have on the legal systems of the member states. on the other hand, the establishment of this institution could increase consumer protection and act as a deterrent against certain unfair practices in the internal market. i supported the report, albeit with some reservations, because i expect it to be the basis for an impact assessment of this legislation. a well-designed assessment of the impacts, benefits and risks of the institution of collective redress will only be able to decide whether it makes sense to introduce this institution into eu law or to reject it definitively.
in writing. article 165 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union confers new competences on the eu in the field of sport. sport is undoubtedly important for european society, contributing to maintaining health, promoting a positive form of competitiveness among young people, helping to maintain physical activity in old age and contributing to social inclusion. sport as an economic sector contributes to economic growth and sustains the jobs created. but sports also face a host of negative phenomena, such as doping, and fan violence and indiscipline, sometimes culminating in brutal fights in stadiums and on the streets. but on the issue of stadium violence, the report by mr santiago fisa ayxely offers no suggestion for improvement or change. i therefore call on the commission, the council and the rapporteur to pay greater attention to this sensitive and complex subject. in some member countries, stadium violence is better managed than elsewhere. so why not tap into the potential that already exists? let's find a solution together. the report presented to the plenary is overall balanced and useful, and therefore, despite the reservation, i shall vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. - i've been playing sports since i was a little girl. that is why i have paid great attention to the discussion of this report. i'm sorry about the report, that it tries to make politics out of sports and completely misses the essence of sports ideals. sport is historically based on voluntariness, spontaneity and above all, it brings joy to those who run it. the attempt to reduce it to pan-european recommendations, pan-european institutionalisation under the guise of building a society-wide welfare will, in my view, have a counterproductive effect, contrary to the expectations and assumptions of the rapporteur. sport has a natural integration effect, but it should not be misused to artificially deepen european integration. the idea of denationalizing sport by promoting the symbols of the european union over national symbols is more of a joke than a joke. that is why i did not support the report in the vote.
in writing. − i believe that the daphne programme has a significant added value for the eu, as it allows different organisations in the member states to work together to prevent and reduce violence and to benefit from mutual exchanges of information and best practice. at the same time, daphne iii projects have created associations and permanent structures that can provide long-term support to target groups on a continuous basis and have been the impetus for policy changes at national and eu level. i believe it is important to pay particular attention to projects aimed at eradicating honour crimes and female genital mutilation. the commission should allow funding for national projects involving small non-profit organisations, as they play a key role in identifying little-known, taboo or new problems, addressing them in an innovative way, while acting in the protection and support of victims.
in writing. − the ecr group is unified in its condemnation of violence against women and children. we are supportive of the aims and objectives of the daphne programme and are particularly keen to see it extend to areas such as preventing violence through online social networks (paragraph 10), honour killing and female genital mutilation (paragraph 13). the ecr group supports a strong position with regard to violence against women and we want to work collaboratively alongside national governments to make policies which will help eradicate violence against women. we voted against part 2 of paragraph 17 to show that we oppose further legislation at eu level which would interfere with member states’ own criminal justice systems – we do firmly believe that individual member states have overall responsibility for their own criminal legal systems.
in writing. - over the last ten years, financial assistance for access to energy for the poor has been modest. the ec aid fund, the third largest in the world, has contributed a modest amount to the poor's access to energy. bilateral cooperation and energy assistance provided by eu countries are primarily geared towards economic growth and environmental objectives rather than access to energy for the poor. a similar situation has arisen with other important bilateral cooperation and assistance programmes (usa, canada, etc.). climate change-related financial mechanisms have also contributed very little to the poor's access to energy so far. the gap in financing for universal access to energy is substantial. the iea estimates that the investment required to provide universal access to energy by 2030 is usd 756 billion, or usd 36 billion per year. although this amount appears unattainable, it represents only 3% of the total estimated expenditure over this period and could be financed through the cooperation of international funds, private-public partnerships, multilateral, bilateral and local banks, microfinance, loans and targeted grants.
in writing. a functioning internal market is one of the cornerstones of the eu and therefore its maintenance and related control during the ongoing crisis, the effects of which are closely linked to a functioning financial market, is becoming increasingly important. between 1 october 2008 and 1 october 2010, the commission adopted more than 200 state aid decisions in the financial sector. in 2009, the nominal amount of financial sector support received by member states was eur 1 107 billion, or 9.3% of eu gdp. this support will undoubtedly continue during the crisis and i therefore appreciate that the commission has introduced, as from 1 january 2011, a requirement for any beneficiary of recapitalisation or impaired assets measures to submit a restructuring plan, irrespective of whether the bank concerned is assessed as being in sound or in difficulty. the commission should ensure that the banks are properly restructured, involving shareholders and bondholders, before granting public financial aid. i also consider it crucial that the commission carries out an ex-post analysis of the impact of the ecb's support to banks during the crisis and of other public interventions. overall, the report presented by mr schwaba provides a comprehensive analysis of the eu's annual competition policy report and reflects the ep's comments, and i therefore recommend that it be adopted as it stands.
mr president, the european milk sector has undergone a rather complex development in recent years, which has also affected other sectors of the european economy. the commission notes that the milk levy is a measure that is not directly linked to the milk market. as has been shown in recent years, the european system of quota regulation in the milk sector has not been able to prevent the negative effects of the crisis mentioned above and it is therefore time to abandon this outdated system from the time of central planning once and for all. milk in the eu needs no quotas, just as there are no quotas for rolls, bread, cars and other commodities. it is desirable that the transition to a market system without quotas should be as smooth as possible and i therefore support the member states being able to adjust contractual relations within this sector at their discretion, but this must be done in a way that is consistent with the principles of the single european market. i shall therefore support mr nicholson's report because i think it is going in the right direction.
in writing. the draft regulation on contractual relations in the milk and milk products sector responds to the complex situation on the milk market, price fluctuations and unfair practices in negotiating milk buying-in prices from farmers. in order to ensure the sustainable development of milk production and to guarantee producers adequate nutrition, it is necessary to take action at union level to ensure a fairer distribution of profits in the supply chain. agriculture is the most strategic sector in the eu as a whole, and it is imperative that support options are sought and found. if our farmers don't have enough food, farming will stop, and we will all be dependent on the world's food supply. with future food shortages in the world, this is the biggest risk the eu cannot afford to take. we suggest that milk producers unite into large units and cooperatives. i remind you that we have successfully eliminated similar large herds in the countries of central and eastern europe for the last 20 years. and the small, free farmer was presented as a successful model of the west. i do not think that any minimum contractual obligations between milk producers and dairies will help to resolve the situation. consider setting minimum buying-in prices for raw milk across the eu, particularly for the winter and summer periods. let us not be afraid of this bold step forward!
i would like to inform you that the group of european conservatives and reformists has decided to support this report despite the many reservations we have about it. we agree on the objective of increasing labour market participation, reducing structural unemployment and increasing the number of skilled workers able to meet labour market demand. we believe that in particular the exchange of good practice between individual member states and a degree of coordination can be beneficial in promoting flexibility in labour markets, flexibility in labour relations and greater economic freedom. we are working together towards an innovation economy, education and social mobility, recognising that it is not the states but entrepreneurs who create jobs and take on this role with a certain degree of risk and responsibility. i believe it is time to stop talking about theoretical targets and start taking concrete steps today and tomorrow to support the private sector in its growth, in its investment and in its path to prosperity.
in writing. europe and the european union have been hit by the economic crisis since 2008. in addition to the decline in various artificial indicators such as gdp, employment and domestic consumption in individual countries declined significantly. we are also seeing a significant increase in the number of people in the eu member states who are employed, receiving a wage, but this wage is so low that even under increasingly deteriorating and stricter criteria for the provision of various social contributions, these employed people are entitled to various types of compensation for their low wages. unfortunately, over the past 20 years, it has become typical that employment has declined significantly in the primary and secondary sectors, and that employment in agriculture and forestry has declined very significantly. the previously key sectors for the employment of the population of industrialised countries, i.e. industry, have been marginalized, especially in the countries of central and eastern europe. in the old countries, the emphasis on industrial development has already shifted in the past to supporting the development of services. unfortunately, it is in the service sector that many sectors are particularly at risk, especially in a crisis situation, in terms of employment and earnings for workers in these sectors. the solution is to support industry and crafts, raise the minimum wage, protect jobs, develop vocational education and training and tax corporations and individuals progressively.
mr president, i very much welcome and fully support the compromise reached so that food aid to the poorest can continue for the next two years. i also hope that the best way of financing it will be found in the next financial year. the value of food aid for the poorest was demonstrated this winter in the czech republic, in northern moravia, for example, in connection with the delay in the payment of some social benefits, which has put many of the most vulnerable in a real crisis situation. the rapid and, above all, humane response of the social workers and the non-profit organisations was the key to managing the situation. these are the very situations where food aid helps. i therefore regret that the czech republic, which has no problems using european food aid, is one of the countries which does not support the resulting compromise in the council, even in this form.
in writing. − i support the agreement reached in the trilogues between the european parliament and the council of the eu. i am pleased that the compromise has managed to secure the allocation of at least 1200 mhz of spectrum for mobile data by 2015. i consider it equally essential for eu citizens to accelerate the development of mobile broadband at a speed of at least 30 mbps, which should be available within the next eight years. at the same time, i am aware of the limitations of the radio spectrum and the need to use it very efficiently. i would therefore urge that radio spectrum policy not be seen as a purely union policy but rather as an agreement with the member states. failure to do so could distort or restrict competition in some eu countries.
i now give the floor to mrs costello, and i hope that this contribution, which is the first in this chamber, will bring her happiness and satisfaction in her work. please, you have the floor.
i have received one motion for a resolution at the end of the debate. the debate is closed. voting on 16 february 2012. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the guidelines for the budgetary process for 2013 sections other than the commission (2012/2001 ((bud)) (a7-0030/2012)
dear mrs. sinclair, i believe everyone has had a say. you had the space, too, and i don't think there was any violation.
the debate is closed. voting on 16 february 2012
thank you. thank you. i fully agree with you that when we are discussing such an important issue as the budget, these responsible officials should be present. i shall raise your objection, which i agree with, in the bureau of parliament. (the sitting was suspended at 8.05 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.) the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. members of the european parliament across the political spectrum are more or less well aware of the need for austerity measures in the current economic situation. rather than short-sightedly cutting back on the key investments the eu has committed to making and which will ensure europe's economic growth in the future, the report by derek vaughan puts the emphasis on efficiency in governance. in other words, the aim is to do more with the resources available. in practice, this means, for example, closer cooperation between the eu institutions and bodies to allow for a more efficient use of resources, and also a thorough review of all the items in the eu budget to avoid unnecessary duplication of some initiatives, and so on. mep vaughan also proposes a freeze on administrative expenditure for all bodies and institutions. this report offers a sober view of the matter without counterproductive populism, and i am therefore prepared to support it.
in october last year, i signed an initiative of the world blind union together with the european blind union, which calls for an effective solution to the problem of access to books and other printed materials for the blind and those with reading difficulties. the initiative calls for the adoption of a legally binding exception in the world intellectual property organisation on copyright in the field of copying and redistribution of printed matter. however, the commission and the council are only proposing non-binding recommendations, which i consider to be wholly inadequate. i therefore fully support the european parliament's resolution, which follows on from the question for an oral answer by mrs mazzoni and calls on the commission to reconsider its position. i see this as a logical continuation of the support from the european parliament, which in its resolution of may last year on unlocking the potential of the cultural and creative industries, supported the legal binding of this copyright exception. in practice, this would mean including this exception in the relevant binding legislation both at international treaty level of the world intellectual property organisation and at european level of directive 2001/29/ec. in both cases, however, the commission has a key role to play. given the possibilities offered by the new media of communication, including the internet, which we are increasingly using in our daily lives, it would be truly regrettable if we did not take full advantage of this opportunity to benefit the blind and those with reading difficulties.
draftswoman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on this report, i would like to express my satisfaction that all the key proposals from our opinion have been reflected in the final text. this concerns in particular changes in the calculation of the target amount for covered deposits, insurance of deposits including small municipalities, the addition of the definition of deposit book, the enforcement of short-term insurance also for deposits above eur 100 000 in case of sale of real estate, etc. i'm glad the funds can be used as a precaution to save the banks. the commission notes that the bank has not provided any information on the credit risk of the deposits. i also consider it a success that the contributions will correspond to the risk profile of the financial institution, i.e. the risk-free building societies will contribute less than the risky campagnes. as a result, banks' costs are reduced and the safety of deposits is increased. we're here tomorrow to vote on a tool that should restore the confidence of our citizens in the financial markets. thank you to the commission for the proposal.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, unfortunately europe does not have many projects in which it is unrivalled in the world. gmes is just that rare example. it is therefore surprising that we do not have the resources in the post-2013 union financial framework for a project which we claim is one of the key elements of the europe 2020 strategy. even while respecting the crisis situation, we should be able to set priorities for both the eu and, in particular, the member states of the union. moreover, the amount needed to run gmes is remarkably small compared to the enormous costs we are incurring in europe's endless debt holes. by pumping hundreds of billions into them, it saves the banks' profits to a great extent. the union is often seen as a bureaucratic body of officials. at gmes, we can show that this is not the case, that we are capable of programmes to improve the lives of the people of the union and, moreover, to have the excellence that we desire.
mr president, i consider it very important to achieve maximum synergies between the galileo and gmes programmes, given the existing european capacity, the economy and the efficiency of programme management with such a large space segment. for these reasons too, i consider it right to entrust the management of the gmes programme to the gsa. however, space exploration must be done in such a way as not to jeopardise the financial viability of the european union's flagship programmes. i therefore prefer a solution that ensures the continuation of the gmes programme beyond 2013 as far as funding is concerned, although i am afraid that a solution through the special fund would raise many questions and uncertainties. i will therefore support the inclusion of gmes in the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, provided that the negative impact on the priority areas of cohesion policy and transport infrastructure is minimised.
in writing. i welcomed the idea of establishing a european earth monitoring programme (gmes) as the right response of the european union to the ever-increasing need for accurate and reliable environmental data, especially in the context of climate change, population migration and scarcity of resources and food. it should be the most technically advanced environmental monitoring programme in the world, helping to guarantee greater security for european citizens and a better humanitarian aid system, contributing to the eu's sustainable development and, last but not least, fostering innovation. i am very concerned that the european commission has decided to move gmes funding outside the mff, and i do not agree with this move. i am afraid that the gmes programme will lose its european dimension and become a mere instrument of individual interests. in its communication on the european earth monitoring programme and its operational activities from 2014, the commission states that it is committed to the success of the gmes programme and has therefore prepared this communication to identify the appropriate governance and long-term funding of the programme from 2014. i really hope that the commission will honour its commitment.
in writing. the eu-morocco agreement is flawed and harmful. the rapporteur, mr josé bové, and the committee on agriculture are opposed to its adoption. in view of the events in tunisia, egypt, libya and syria, it is necessary to stress that the liberalisation agreements that have been put in place so far have not achieved the stated objectives and that, therefore, policies that favour the economic interests of influential actors cannot continue without assessing the social impact on the population and the damage caused to the environment and the climate. the report has particularly drastic negative consequences for european and north african agriculture and fisheries, as it promotes industrial agriculture at the expense of sustainable agriculture. it is unfair competition to european producers in the form of price dumping due to child labour and labour without any social standards. for north africa, the proposed agreement is harmful, particularly in terms of environmental protection. powerful agricultural operators are drawing groundwater for their agricultural profits in such a way that the water level is dropping an average of five feet [1.5 m] a year. for example, in morocco, 100 litres of water are needed to grow 1 kilogram of tomatoes, compared with 10 litres in france or germany. i fully support the rapporteur's negative opinion and reject the adoption of the eu-morocco agreement on liberalisation measures for agricultural and fishery products.
in writing. - i consider it important that the ep is trying to adopt a united position on the current situation in syria. while there are several bloody conflicts in the world, the one in syria is not only the most publicized, but also the most dangerous, because of the propaganda campaign. our position on the syrian civil war must be based on the tragic historical experience of our continent and on the european humanist tradition. it must be based on the need to protect peace and human life. i see the biggest obstacle to achieving this goal as the reluctance of some armed groups to sit down at the negotiating table. this reluctance is growing out of the belief that their inevitable violent victory over the government, thanks to the expected support from nato. it is very likely that these armed groups are being supported from abroad in their refusal to negotiate. corresponding to this is the arming and media support of the insurgency. i am in no way advocating the current regime in damascus. i'm just deeply convinced, even after the experience of libya, that the only way to peace is through compromise and reform. i find attempts to change regimes in selected countries by foreign violence completely unacceptable. i remind you of the elementary truth that the un charter is built on the principle of the sovereignty of individual states. any other approach will only add to the chaos in an already volatile world.
in writing. the european blind union calls for effective solutions to make publications accessible to blind and visually impaired people. in the present age of technological possibilities to convert the commonly published text into voice or braille, this call should be given maximum support. that's why i voted for the resolution.
the author. - mr. president, we all know the value of human life, and i, as a doctor, dare to say that i know it in particular. we are discussing the resolution on the death sentences of dmitry kanavalov and vladislav kavalyev and at the same time linking them to the general issue of abolition of the death penalty in belarus. what are the facts? the death penalty is enshrined in the criminal code of belarus as an extraordinary instrument for the most serious crimes. we all know that belarus has repeatedly, despite the support of citizens for the death penalty in referendums, declared a moratorium on this supreme penalty. both the accused and the convicted were given the possibility to appeal to the president of the republic in accordance with the legislation, which is no different from the legal systems of the so-called democratic states. one did, the other didn't. the terrorist attack in the minsk metro was investigated not only by the special services of belarus, but also with the participation of specialists from interpol in the uk, as well as specialists from russia and israel. that a terrorist act was committed and 15 people died is as true as the terrorist act of 9/11. we want to make sure that, in the face of the doubts we have about the process, no human lives are taken. we must urge the belarusian authorities to re-examine the evidence and in particular the course of the trial. it would be a great success if we could get the death penalty abolished and the laws allow it, just like the law in the us or japan. i am deeply convinced that our conscience must command us to strive for at least a moratorium, rather the abolition of the death penalty in belarus without coercion.
the author. - mr president, i think we all look with concern at the developments in north africa. the arab spring, which we had so much hope for, is stifling half-hearted reforms and even bombs. in egypt, one mubarak has been replaced by a collective mubarak, and few know what the next development will be. the presidential election, which could be held as early as august, is so far off that it could be postponed many times, and it is unclear whether democratic elections will bring to power people who divide society or unite it. and people are dying. it is once again confirmed that peace-building is much more difficult than funding ngos or sending in bombers. true peace must be based on justice. justice that respects the local traditions, not imported, justice that brings, in addition to elections, freedom of speech and assembly, a decent social life. not postponing the presidential election and handing power to a civilian government backed by parliament should be the demand of all those who truly respect human rights at this time.
it is shameful that even at the beginning of the 21st century, a country like japan, the most advanced democracy in asia and a model for all other developing democratic states in the region and the world, still retains in its legal system such an unfortunate and undemocratic institution as the death penalty. the right to life is the most basic of human rights. i would also like to remind japan that the idea of the right to life is publicly supported, for example, in the 1966 international covenant on civil and political rights. i believe that it is time for this right to be finally applied and enforced to the letter, without any exceptions. i make this strong appeal to the japanese government and to the japanese legislators.
commissioner, i'm going to address you. i believe that the market mechanism of supply and demand in the labour market is the most important and cannot be interfered with by unnecessary regulation. in my view, it is necessary to focus on those aspects which will create for women the same working conditions and labour market conditions as for men in the case of starting a family. there is a weakness in many member states. i cannot agree to the introduction of legislative measures such as quotas which would be binding. nor can i support a repeated claim for compulsory and fully paid maternity leave of 20 weeks. i do not see the benefit of this measure to gender equality, rather the opposite. but i want to emphasize that women have the right to control their reproductive and sexual health. the right to women's sexual and reproductive health is, in my view, one of the fundamental human rights that must be guaranteed in all the countries of the european union. you can't stop women from taking contraceptives, and you can't stop women from having an abortion. a woman's body should be her own, since she is the one who has to go through the big changes associated with pregnancy, childbirth, and breast-feeding, and the child is a lifelong commitment. we do not want to go back to the end of the 19th century, which is so beautifully portrayed in the film "the rules of the winery", and which i assume has been translated into all the languages of the member states of the european union. in other words, although i do not agree with many of the measures contained in the reports, i will always agree with the specific points concerning the freedom of women to decide their own destiny. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer to the question posed by raising the blue card i don't know if it was a question of interpretation or if i understood correctly that the family is being punished for choosing the child. my interpretation was punished. i believe that firstly, it cannot be a punishment, secondly, we are each free to decide our own destiny, and therefore even the family that decided to have children had to always take into account the way the children would be fed, how the household would be provided and which of the two parents, whether father or mother, would earn and provide the household. and whether it's one child, two children, five children, whether it's a father or a mother, it's just that in my opinion it's always a free choice, and that's how it should be in the future. i understand your point of view, madam vice-president, as regards the proposal for our committee, which was the maternity leave directive two years ago, but you know very well that the way our committee voted at your instigation, the member states can never react.
madam president, warning against the impact of insensitive restrictions on social programmes in times of crisis on the lives of women and families, that is of course important, but i disagree with a number of points which merely repeat the ideas of many other reports. yes, women in the european union are more educated than men and, unfortunately, they are paid less. what about it? we'll do it again next year? in other places, complex social and economic issues are mixed with the promotion of a one-sided gender view of the world. in particular, paragraph 47 is totally unacceptable. i also find it incomprehensible, in human terms and in common sense, that our parliament should focus on criticising the definition of the family in some member states. do the authors not even care that this is against subsidiarity and cultural tradition? and who should be the judge of which definition is correct? what about thinking that the family has been around for millennia to give birth and raise new generations, and that this is a mission that both women and men like to submit to for a limited time and personal interests. aren't children's rights more important than other rights? let us focus on addressing complex issues such as the economic situation of families with many children in times of crisis, rather than on mandatory quotas that consequently demean women.
in writing. a number of progress has already been made in gender equality in the european union. the improvements can be seen in particular in the wording of the legislation. but true equality has not yet been achieved. there are huge differences in this issue. while in multinational companies and agglomerations equal pay for equal work with equal qualifications is becoming the norm, in regional or rural areas gender stereotypes prevail, leading to absolute inequality between women and men. member states and eu institutions should focus in particular on the labour market in these areas. gender equality in the future can only be achieved if women have equal access to the labour market now and are paid equally for equal work. family and maternal responsibilities appear to be insurmountable problems for women's employment. young women are discriminated against in many cases when entering their first job, as employers fear future interruption of work due to childbirth. i therefore call for new ways of supporting women in entering the workforce after maternity leave to be explored. the second major problem is the lack of financial valuation of social work and care for sick or elderly relatives. here again, we have to find new ways to support women, because they are almost exclusively the ones who care for their loved ones.
we need to stop talking about the problem of women being paid less for doing the same work as men and do something about it. i remind you that according to statistics, the czech republic is the worst of all the member countries. under various pretexts, most often that the man is the breadwinner, the rewards still vary widely. unfortunately, this is also helped by the very old ilo convention, which decades ago set out what a man's wage in the metal industry should be to support a wife and two children. it might be useful for the member states to denounce this convention. i finally spoke to the spanish minister for labour during the spanish presidency of the eu.
in writing. one of the themes of this year's international women's day is equal pay for equal work and increasing the number of women in leadership positions. in the czech republic, the pay gap is well above the european average. according to the well-known eurostat figures, the gap in our country still stands at 26%. in any other area, a europe-wide gap of 17% would be unacceptable to us, compared with what we are entitled to and what we take for granted and consider fair. however, a substantial proportion of european citizens consider the pay gap to be one of the most serious inequalities between women and men. i support the report because it describes the issue of existing inequalities between men and women in all its breadth and complexity.
mr. chairman, cutting education budgets is a road to hell. but how do we get member states to invest at least 3% of gdp in education and science in a time of crisis? how can we motivate businesses to participate much more in university science programmes and work with universities to put graduates into practice, despite the recession? to avoid the prolongation of the unemployed graduates' queues at the employment offices, it is necessary to increase the mobility of university graduates, to remove obstacles to the recognition of diplomas, which also requires the convergence of educational programmes. but that's not a priority for universities. i welcome this report, which points out a number of weaknesses in the bologna process, which would otherwise be a good pathway to education, to an education economy, and thus to a promising renewal of economic growth in the european union.
mr president, a while ago, i think in the greek newspapers, a caricature of chancellor merkel with a swastika on her sleeve appeared, and in the german newspapers, they wrote something about the greeks being lazy. i'm asking if this is normal. it's unacceptable to me. and i wonder if this is the state of affairs that european integration has brought us to. that the nations of europe are pointing fingers at each other and spitting at each other. and i'm sorry to say that's exactly what happened. that's where your, your and your notion of european integration has led us. and the fiscal compact is just one more step on this road, which is not fiscal discipline at all, which is healthy and necessary in itself, but only creates a pretext for further politicization of the european union and is another step on the road to a political union which, as it clearly shows, does not remove tensions between nations, but increases them and revives old animosities. my government has not signed the fiscal compact, we still want to decide whether we will join the eurozone at all, it must be the subject of a referendum, because the conditions for entering the eurozone have changed dramatically from the state we signed in the accession treaty, and therefore it is necessary that the citizens of the country decide this in a popular vote.
mr president, colleagues, as you know, the czech republic, under the leadership of a eurosceptic conservative government and a eurosceptic president, has not joined the fiscal pact. as a czech, i have to say that's a mistake. the czech republic is not only geographically, but also politically and economically located in the heart of europe, and it is therefore in its vital, security, political and economic interest to participate actively and fully in european integration, including, of course, monetary and fiscal integration. this is the opinion of the czech social democracy, and this is also the opinion of the majority of czech society, which, as you know, clearly supported european integration in the referendum. of course, the fiscal pact is not the answer to everything. as my colleagues have said, we want to see more jobs, more investment, more social policies, but fiscal responsibility is the foundation.
in writing. − while equality between men and women is one of the fundamental principles of the european union, there are still substantial gender gaps in a number of areas, whether it be differences in income, employment opportunities, social security or representation in senior management or public positions. the report on equality between women and men in the european union, drawn up by the committee on women's rights and gender equality, strongly advocates continuing the intense fight to eliminate these inequalities and supports the empowerment of women in european society. it also calls for the protection of the rights of persons living in same-sex unions, the promotion of equality and the protection of the rights and dignity of women living outside the european union, especially in muslim countries. i consider all these elements to be very positive and desirable, and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - political parties play a crucial role in promoting women's political participation. political parties have the power to recruit, select and appoint candidates, regardless of the electoral system. it is therefore necessary to address the under-representation of women in politics and to direct political parties and their attitudes and strategies to apply principles that allow for greater representation of women in the formation of decision-making bodies. i understand that this report calls on the political parties in the member states to take measures to increase the participation of women in politics, but i do not agree with the call for quotas. on the contrary, i am in favour of a looser form of regulation in the form of objectives and more general rules for determining the order of priority of candidates in national elections and elections at european union level. one possible incentive could be an obligation on the parties to meet certain equality objectives, which would be a condition for allocating funds to the party. i think it is important to point out in this context that the european parliament has the most balanced gender representation, with 35% of women and 65% of men.
in writing. − i am convinced that cooperatives and other social economy enterprises are part of the single market and therefore deserve support. cooperatives have the potential to contribute to the completion of the eu internal market and therefore existing cross-border barriers should be removed in order to increase their competitiveness. unfortunately, the european cooperative society (sce) project, which was launched in 2003, has not yet been successful in view of its limited use. by 2010, only 17 sces had been set up, with a total of 32 employees. these modest figures show that the statute is not very well suited to the specific situation of cooperative societies in europe, even though a number of entrepreneurs have expressed an interest in setting up an sce. i welcome the fact that a thorough assessment of the statute has been carried out to identify why it is not attractive, why it has such a small impact and what can be done to overcome the lack of experience in its application and other obstacles. unfortunately, the use of sces is often limited to second-tier cooperatives composed of only legal persons, by mutual societies which do not have a european status but wish to benefit from a legal status linked to the social economy, and by large companies. access to the sce remains difficult for small cooperative societies, which form the core of the cooperative movement in europe, and the eu should take decisive steps to improve the situation.
in writing. - i welcome the commission's proposal to significantly increase funding for european education and training programmes, with a substantial share of this funding to be devoted to supporting the modernisation of higher education and the modernisation of university infrastructures in line with the objectives of the bologna process and the eu programme for the modernisation of higher education. the commission should also find a solution to allow access to these programmes for students who are in financial difficulty. in this context, i would point out the strong link between the bologna process and the professional qualifications directive and stress the need for coordination by the commission. this link can be further strengthened by providing students with all relevant practical information on the recognition of diplomas obtained abroad and the job opportunities that education abroad opens up for them. in the context of the revision of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, and in order to make progress towards the creation of a genuine european higher education area, it is necessary to compare national minimum training requirements and to introduce more regular exchanges between member states, competent authorities and professional bodies.
in writing. − i supported the adoption of the report on the contribution of the european institutions to consolidation and progress in the bologna process, as i recognise the crucial importance of the european higher education area as a platform for enhanced support for the mobility of young citizens. any instrument that contributes to the employment of young graduates clearly deserves such support. i also welcome the social dimension of the report, which openly advocates equitable access and completion of higher education at all levels. i am pleased to have succeeded in including in the report the call for greater transparency in the information provided to students on the conditions for taking up a traineeship abroad, as well as the encouragement of teacher mobility.
in writing. i believe that eurostat should consider changing the method used for producing european statistics and gradually moving from a corrective approach to a preventive approach to quality management of european statistics in general and public finance statistics in particular. the first step is to introduce binding rules for the production of european statistics and the verification of their accuracy. i would stress that independent statistical authorities are essential to maintain the credibility of statistical data. it is a fact that in many cases the submission of accurate statistics may involve the collection and aggregation of data from a large number of sources. in this respect, i therefore note that shorter deadlines for the publication of statistics may in some cases result in lower statistical reliability or accuracy or higher data collection costs. the proportionality of the timely submission of statistics, their reliability and the cost of their production should therefore be carefully considered when considering best practices in this area. eurostat should also consider ways to ensure that its publications, and in particular those in electronic form, are more understandable to ordinary citizens and the lay public, in particular as regards the charts. the eurostat website should facilitate access to complete long-term data time series and present indicative and comparative charts in a way that is particularly useful for citizens.
mr president, when we think about the eu budget for 2013 today, we should stick to the best principles. first, we need to be realistic. it is not true, as the report claims, that deepening integration and increasing the eu budget can prevent an economic crisis and prevent others. let's not use the current crisis to increase budget spending. what we need is a stable budget at roughly the current level of spending, adopted quickly and without the unnecessary bickering and inter-institutional wars that we have seen in the last two years. the 2013 budget must take account of current developments in the eu, including enlargement with croatia, and also the fact that for the first time since 2004, farmers in the new member states will receive the same direct payments as their hitherto better-funded western european counterparts. we must also take into account the fact that we are still in a situation of economic stagnation and, in some cases, crisis, where national budgets are forced to save and cut back on spending. we have to do the same.
mr president, first of all let me say, on behalf of the socialists and democrats, that we are pleased to see that, despite the financial and economic crisis we are facing, the union enlargement policy is gaining new momentum, especially in the western balkans. as the minister has already said, enlargement is one of the most successful policies. in my view, and in the view of my group, it should stay so. it should remain strong and robust. of course, we should capitalise on the positive dynamics facilitated by serbia’s candidate status. it should also be a good example for the neighbouring countries that, if they work hard and implement reforms, they can go on the same path. as far as fyrom is concerned, we regret that the december 2011 international court of justice ruling did not translate into any constructive movement towards the resolution of the name issue. i think it is tragic that the name issue can hinder the enlargement process for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. we think that is in the interests of both the macedonian people and the greek people, and of course all europeans, that this issue is solved as soon as possible and that this country can move forward. in this context, i would like to welcome the new high-level accession dialogue led by commissioner füle. i want to wish him every success tomorrow when he starts the accession talks. of course there are some priorities but i do not have time to mention them. focus on them and we wish you good luck. i would like to thank our rapporteur, richard howitt, for an excellent report. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr salavrakos, fyrom is a candidate country. i recognise and the report recognises that, yes, there are many shortcomings. the macedonian government is aware of that situation; i think the whole society is working on improving that situation. but what i would like to say to you as a greek is that your country – the whole region – is in economic trouble. would it not be better if the whole region cooperated, if we created a positive atmosphere, economic cross-country and cross-border cooperation, and through this cooperation we could improve the wellbeing of the entire region, including greece? (applause)
in writing. first of all, i'd like to congratulate richard howitt, our new news editor, on a highly qualified job. the draft text clearly shows that he managed to successfully jump on a moving train. and this is despite the fact that we still haven't solved the biggest problem, namely the name dispute. the efforts of catherine ashton and commissioner fülh to facilitate agreement on the name, in line with our recommendation last year have so far failed to bring about the necessary change, despite all efforts. so maybe we should consider changing the mediation process. the eu could make such a proposal to the un. in the sense that the eu representative becomes the mediator. or, if necessary, to transfer the matter from un jurisdiction to eu jurisdiction. the proposal is motivated above all by the fact that the years pass, but the negotiations are still in place. and there's no way that's going to change. therefore, i believe it is appropriate to take steps that could lead to the unblocking of the situation. of course, there is no guarantee that such a change will bring about any positive change. but there is no doubt that the current path to the goal is clearly not leading. and the eu could at least take the initiative in this way.
in writing i welcome the developments in iceland in recent months, in particular the economic reforms to overcome the economic crisis, the strengthening of internal human rights protection, the measures against corruption and the alignment of icelandic legislation with european legislation. while i am aware that negotiations on certain issues such as the free movement of capital or fisheries policy will still present many difficulties, i believe that iceland has taken a decisive step towards its future membership of the european union. but we must not forget that the final decision will not be made by lawyers or politicians, but will be democratically decided by the citizens themselves in a referendum.
for the ecr group. mr president, the european conservatives and reformists have fully welcomed the enlargement package of october last year. we fully support the commission's regulations and recommendations. we are fully in favour of enlargement and believe that the further acceleration of the negotiations with croatia and its accession in 2013 will be a very good impetus and model for other countries in the western balkans, including bosnia and herzegovina. this does not mean that the process of further enlargement is without problems. we therefore regard the finding of a lack of reform progress in bosnia and herzegovina in some areas as an objective assessment of the current situation in the country. in addition to better cooperation at all levels, there is a particular need to strengthen the judicial system and to set rules to fight corruption. beyond this point, i would like to stress that we fully support the rapid accession and negotiation with iceland and personally emphasise the strategic importance of turkey's full membership of the european union in the long term.
in writing. the commission proposal amending certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy introduces adjustments only in cases which have hitherto been covered by a council decision under a specific regulation. it does not foresee that the individual references to the earlier committee procedure provided for in council regulation 1999/468/ec contained in those regulations will be changed. in this context, the commission has repeatedly stated that these adjustments should be made in the next draft regulation, the draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy as regards the delegation of power to adopt certain measures (omnibus ii). in this context, it should be noted that the ep has reached a so-called common understanding with the commission and the council, which envisages a uniform model for the application of both delegated and implementing acts. the commission proposal, to my surprise, deviates far from these provisions, which is unacceptable. the report correctly corrects the commission's proposal by applying the 'common understanding' criteria. it thus ensures that the wording of all future provisions of european law relating to the implementation of delegated or implementing acts is consistent.
in writing. − i believe that one of the objectives that the eu should set itself is to coordinate the judicial training provided by existing professional schools of the judiciary and to facilitate and promote dialogue and professional contacts. in this respect, i consider multilingual training to be important, as the studies carried out show that only a relatively small number of judges speak a foreign language sufficiently to be able to participate actively in judicial training in another member state. one way to solve the problems (cost, language training, efficient use of resources) is to use modern technologies and finance the creation of online applications; these applications, prepared by national schools, eras, universities and other trainers, would consist of training courses together with video material including language training (with special emphasis on legal terminology) and instructions on national legal systems, specific legal procedures, etc. and would be provided free of charge to judicial staff. successful participation in these courses could provide judges with a gateway to the erasmus programme and to attend training courses abroad.
in writing. - i think it is important to strongly condemn the use of child labour in cocoa fields. all stakeholders involved in the cultivation and processing of cocoa beans and cocoa products, in particular governments, industry worldwide, cocoa producers, trade unions, non-governmental organisations and consumers, must fulfil their obligations to combat all forms of child labour and trafficking, exchange expertise and cooperate to create a sustainable cocoa supply chain free of child labour. real change can only be achieved through global cooperation to tackle the root causes of child labour. the commission must ensure policy coherence in all its initiatives, in particular those relating to trade, development (in particular children's access to education), human rights, public procurement and corporate social responsibility, and promote the exchange of good practices between the different economic sectors where child labour occurs. the commission should also ensure that all trade agreements contain effective provisions on poverty reduction and promotion of decent work and safe working conditions, as well as legally binding clauses on internationally recognised human rights, social and environmental standards and on the monitoring of their observance, together with measures to be applied in the event of their breach.
in writing. − given the current lack of a european strategy to tackle diabetes, despite the conclusions of the austrian presidency of the council on promoting healthy lifestyles and preventing type 2 diabetes, i consider it necessary for the commission to develop and implement a targeted eu diabetes strategy focusing on diabetes diagnosis and treatment and diabetes education and research. in this context, the commission should develop common standardised criteria and methods for the collection of data on diabetes and, in cooperation with the member states, coordinate, collect, record, monitor and manage comprehensive epidemiological data on diabetes as well as economic data on the basis of direct and indirect costs associated with the prevention and treatment of diabetes. the member states should instead be responsible for developing, implementing and monitoring national diabetes programmes aimed at promoting health, reducing risk factors, predicting, preventing, early diagnosing and treating diabetes, targeting the whole population, in particular the most at-risk groups. promoting the prevention of type 2 diabetes and obesity, in particular through healthy lifestyle education and physical activity in schools from an early age, should be an important part of national strategies.
in writing. diabetes is one of the most common noncommunicable diseases, estimated to affect over 32 million eu citizens, i.e. almost 10% of the total eu population. the number of people living with diabetes in europe is expected to increase by 16,6% by 2030 due to the obesity epidemic, the ageing of the european population and other factors yet to be identified. the resolution adopted, which i supported, calls for the establishment of a targeted european strategy for diabetes, which would deal with, among other things, the collection and evaluation of epidemiological data, the coordination of european research and educational and prevention campaigns aimed at early diagnosis. i consider all these activities to be essential to combating this disease.
in writing. − i am deeply concerned by recent developments in the macedonian media and the fact that media ownership remains opaque and highly concentrated. the eu should therefore encourage macedonia to pursue more decisively media freedom and pluralism and to conduct an informed and pluralistic discussion on the reform issues raised in the progress report itself. the public authorities should ensure that the rule of law and media freedom are respected in the country, thereby ensuring that the commission's assessment remains positive in the future. in this context, i believe that there should be a fair and transparent distribution of government advertising expenditure among all national television stations, regardless of the content of their broadcasts or their political leanings. i agree with the commission's recommendation that measures be taken to ensure that the state broadcaster fulfils the objectives and plays the impartial role of public service broadcasting; i call on the authorities to adopt the necessary amendments to harmonise the broadcasting act with eu law. i find it disturbing that the accusations of slander are being used against journalists for political reasons. freedom of the media is a cornerstone of democracy and must be a necessary condition for any country aspiring to eu membership.
the next item on the agenda is a statement by the vice-president of the commission, high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on the outcome of the presidential elections in russia. i would like to apologise to the vice-president of the commission, high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. by agreement, baroness ashton will be represented by the vice-president of the commission and the representative of the ministry of foreign affairs of the presidency, minister søvndal.
mr lisek, sorry about the first blue card. i saw only one and i gave you more time for your speech.
i have received one motion for a resolutionsee minutes.tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday, 15 march 2012). written statements (rule 149)
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission, high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on kazakhstan.
mr president, i travel to kazakhstan quite often and i can say that i have different views from my colleague murphy. building democracy is a long-term affair and requires first establishing the foundations of the rule of law. this is what the leadership of the republic of kazakhstan is striving for, and from my conversations with the kazakh people, i can say that they appreciate kazakhstan as an island of stability and secular values in central asia. that's a first. and secondly, i can say that although this is undoubtedly a state where authoritarian methods of governance predominate, kazakhstanis still respect their president, as evidenced by the fact that from $400 per capita gdp in 1991, when kazakhstan started as an independent state, it has now reached $9,000 per capita. i think it's going to take some time for this country to be on a par with the countries of europe, the european union, but i assume they're on that path.
answer the question by raising the blue card. i am aware of the recent incident and the kazakh authorities should be allowed to investigate the whole case, and even people who were there at the time say that the kazakh authorities are trying to be open, they are trying to make all possible information available. but again, the creation of democracy is a long-term affair. for example, in latin american countries, where individual new countries adopted the principles of the us constitution in the 19th century, they did not work that way because there were no conditions for this constitutional practice. we have to wait.
the question posed by the blue card. i want to ask my colleague if he knows about the activities of mukhtar ablyazov, which are connected with the activities of the kazakh opposition?
the question posed by the blue card. i'd like to ask vigenin's colleagues how they explain the 142 objects that were burned and destroyed during the alleged workers' protests?
mr president, let me sum up the discussion on behalf of the socialists and democrats. yes, we want strong political and economic relations with kazakhstan. we want to increase our trade. transport is important, as is energy, but for us the area of human rights, civic rights, the rule of law and democracy is also important because, without that, no society can develop. so we strongly condemn the violent crackdown by the police against the demonstrators in zhanaozen and we demand an independent and credible investigation, with an international component of course. but we also would like to see that these events do not happen in the future. what is important for us is to have a dialogue between the kazakh authorities and civil society, to allow the workers, the employees, to have independent trade unions because, through this dialogue, through this cooperation, we can create stability which would profit the workers, the companies and society. in this way, society can develop, and develop in the direction of more human and civic rights and the rule of law, which is so important both for us and, i am also convinced, for the kazakhs.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, as we state in our resolution, and as mr protasiewicz mentioned, the belarus regime chooses self-isolation. unfortunately it isolates not only itself but also the belarusian people. this is not what we want. in our resolution and in our demands we express solidarity with belarusian people. we want to show them – and we want them to know – that here in the european parliament, in the european union, we express our solidarity, our help and our hope that in a similar way to belarus’s neighbours, belarusian society and the belarusian state one day will move on the way towards more human rights, more civic rights, more democracy and the rule of law. the belorussian economy is in dire straits. if we look at the budget deficit, the current account deficit and the future prospects, there is no way for an improvement without reforms. these reforms are not possible without reforming society, engaging in dialogue with young people, independent groups, the opposition, journalists and trade unions. only in this way can a society – whether it is the belorussian society or any other – be stable, and only in this way can both the society and the economy improve. this is what we wanted to express in our resolution, part of which, of course, comprises our demands to release all political prisoners, no matter what their political affiliation. this is what we would like to express in our joint resolution. i think it is the view not only of the socialists and democrats but all democratic groups in this house.
for the ecr group. mr president, i would like to echo the words of the rapporteur, chris davies. yes, he mentioned that the european union emits about 12% of emissions, and i've long argued that without global cooperation, our efforts are ultimately close to zero. we are constantly telling ourselves that we are going to be the saviour of the world, that we are going to be the example, and those are the words i have heard all my time in this parliament. we've accomplished nothing so far, except more and more regulation and more and more burdens on our economy. and to respond to chris's words, you know, it's not just about drilling a few holes in the ground, it's about massive structural intervention for some countries, and the example of the automotive industry is not a good one. after the latest regulations, the european automotive industry is in the red. i think any map to the future is a very good thing, but let me just point out that the map should not be stuck on the windshield of a car, it could end in tragedy.
mr president, the debate on this report is very complex and i think it is also a risk for the development of certain sectors in europe. the danger of excessive regulatory intervention must be kept in mind so as not to dramatically reduce the competitiveness of european firms. the report itself points out this threat in several places. i agree with the need to increase the efficiency of energy systems. improving efficiency can open up new fields. the secondary effect will then be to reduce the environmental burden and co2 emissions. the bulk of our activity should be focused on promoting research and accelerating innovation cycles. the development of individual member states with a right to a national energy mix, including the role of nuclear energy, must also be taken into account. it would be wrong for the so-called green economy to be based solely on political, administrative efforts supported by regulatory instruments across the union. i see the grave danger of an artificially created and subsidized economy that could become completely dysfunctional in the long run. the first negative signals may be the relocation of production capacity outside the territory of the european union, as also mentioned in the report.
in writing. chris davies' report is full of interesting facts and very bold targets. after the collapse of negotiations with the largest non-eu air carriers, it will be interesting to see how the ambitious goals of the report develop. the fact that the eu has overtaken both china and india in the production of pv and wind energy sources requires further explanation. if it is because the eu is too constrained by a variety of regulations and directives, then this administrative inconsistency needs to be addressed first. the emphasis on central heating in cities is interesting and realistic, reducing the amount of co2 emissions by 1.74 per cent per year is certainly a very bold plan. the reduction of co2 emissions by 2050 to a maximum of 20% of 1990 levels and the linear interpolation of the incremental targets can be seen as a political declaration and goodwill. on the contrary, the emphasis on ensuring priority for food and feed production through the energy use of biomass is correct. here is the crucial support for research and development mentioned in the final passage of the text. the proposal to allocate 20% of the european regional development fund to investments in energy saving, the development and deployment of low-carbon technologies and the promotion of innovation is provoking questions. i think that the emphasis is lacking on the next one, the eighth framework programme for science and research. unfortunately, much of the report is a collection of wishful thinking, even though the gue/ngl group supports the stated aims.
for the ecr group. mr president, you know that i am often perceived in this house as a critic of existing environmental policies, but on the water issue i strongly and strongly support all my speakers. water as a resource, water as a global problem, its depletion, the imperfect management of water, the lack of protection of water in some parts of the world is a very serious problem. so i very much support both the current conference and the motion for a resolution, with one minor exception. we have - perhaps by mistake - been given the phrase that we declare that water is the common wealth of all mankind, which is true, and therefore it should not be a source of profit. you know, if we were to support this phrase, i believe that it could very seriously threaten the water economy in most of the member countries, and that is why i very strongly support the amendment put forward by richard seeber and others to add the word 'illegitimate profit'. if that word is added, this amendment will pass. it will be my great honor to support the report.
in writing. water consumption in agriculture, industry and supply puts such pressure on water resources that demand for water already exceeds local availability in many parts of the eu the situation is also worsening as a result of climate change and human activities in the region. this is evidenced by the increased incidence of flooding or extreme drought even in areas where it was not previously the case. the eu is also working to improve the quality of its water supply, and to develop a more efficient and effective water management system. the growth in the consumption of packaged beverages is also creating plastic waste that threatens the environment and our own food chain. the privatisation of the water supply networks has made the population hostage to private companies, resulting in a devastated public water supply system and the need to rebuild it from public walls. but today we don't really need the cycle of privatising the profits and making up the losses from public spaces. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of member states that have already adopted the directive by a further two or three. the review of existing eu water legislation is primarily about responding to new risks and ensuring an organic link between sectoral legislation to protect key environmental elements such as: water: the 6th world water forum in marseille is an opportunity to launch a broad public debate on the truly sustainable use of water resources. of swarms.
mr. president, it is a slap in the face of democracy when the government of a democratic country cannot unequivocally condemn a portal that incites xenophobia and hatred among nations within the union. the second step could be to label shops and the third to make the label visible on the clothing of all central and eastern european citizens. we should not be satisfied with this resolution today. our pressure should not ease until dutch prime minister rutte condemns these shameful sites and takes legal action to shut them down. i consider them discriminatory and contrary to the freedoms of the union. they are also fomenting hatred and dividing european society. it is a mistake that the dutch government and media are unable to confront xenophobic sentiments with clear arguments. for 20 years, the dutch profited from post-communist eastern europe, investing 23 billion euros in poland alone. hundreds of dutch people have found a second home in the czech republic. now, thanks to the european union, hundreds of thousands of workers and other workers are helping to develop the dutch economy further in the netherlands. we expect that the majority of dutch society will take a clear stand against xenophobic sentiments.
in writing. the report on the roadmap to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 is well-intentioned, but contains some unintended or unrealistic targets and challenges. for example, i do not agree with the idea expressed that 30% of the environmental component of cap direct payments should be used for an eu-wide incentive scheme aimed at developing carbon storage in soil. if european agriculture is to be globally competitive and maximally self-sufficient, agricultural land must be used for production, which naturally requires high standards of safety and quality. in the context of the low-carbon vision, i do not consider the challenge to commit the eu to the complete elimination of co2 emissions from the energy sector by 2050 to be realistic. in addition to reducing co2 emissions, other objectives such as maintaining and enhancing the competitiveness of industry and the eu's energy security based on maximum independence from energy supplies from third countries need to be taken into account. in this context, i would point out that the current 20% renewable energy target is based on the contribution of nuclear energy to the energy mix in a number of member states, whereas the 2011 world energy outlook prepared by the international energy agency includes a scenario based on a lower nuclear energy mix. the eu should therefore take a critical stance on it.
in writing. the roadmap to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 is intended to help create a framework for new legislative acts that will co-determine the nature of investments. the system of co2 reduction allowances is proving to be inadequate, as their surplus has reduced the price and they can no longer fulfil their function for investments in a low-carbon and sustainable economy. in addition, emissions increased by a further 6% in 2010. global producers like china and india are already preparing for a massive shift to sustainable green technologies. if europe is to remain competitive, it should aim to reduce co2 as quickly and efficiently as possible and promote technologies and processes that use energy and resources much more efficiently. progress has been made in the automotive industry, for example, but the aviation industry continues to lag behind and remains one of the most burdensome sectors. in this context, it is imperative to emphasise the co2 capture function of trees and forest cover. trees and forest cover absorb co2 in the most natural way possible, without the need for major investments. it is necessary to limit the massive deforestation for profit that is increasing day by day in most member states of the union. i welcome the report as a whole and will support it with my vote.
in writing. i joined the majority of the ep in condemning the website set up by the pvv party for denying the fundamental european values of human dignity, freedom, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights and for threatening the very essence of the union, which is non-discrimination and freedom of movement. i see on the pvv website an intention to divide society and to make political gains at the expense of workers from central and eastern europe. the dutch government should condemn this regrettable initiative and clearly distance itself from it. on the other hand, the obligation of all eu governments to guarantee the right to free movement and the right to non-discriminatory treatment should be emphasised. i think it's necessary to investigate whether this initiative is inciting hatred. there is no doubt that workers from the countries that joined the eu in 2004 and 2007 have had a positive impact on the economies of the member states and have not caused major disruptions to their labour markets, but have instead made a significant contribution to the eu's long-term economic growth. the commission and the council should make every effort to stop the spread of xenophobic attitudes such as those expressed on this website and to ensure the effective implementation of the framework decision on racism and xenophobia in all member states.
in writing. − in the context of the resolution adopted at the 6th world water forum, i agree with the call for a common body of knowledge on water management to be used both at global and eu level. this should go hand in hand with the development of key global indicators of water quality, quantity, availability and affordability and water resource efficiency indicators at the river basin level. in this context, i support the development of uniform river basin management plans at global level and underline the primary role of river basin management plans in the implementation of eu water policy in line with the water framework directive. regional and local authorities have an important role to play in economically addressing the world's water problems and preventing bribery. the commission, together with the member states, should accede to the united nations convention on international watercourses on behalf of the eu and promote the entry into force of amendments to the 1992 helsinki convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes with a view to extending the scope of this instrument to countries that are not members of the unece. the eu should also support wider ratification of the 1992 protocol on water and sanitation to the helsinki convention in the interests of coordinated and equitable water management in national and international watersheds.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. i support the proposal that the european parliament should join those who are demanding that the egyptian authorities reconsider their policy towards migrants and traffickers. but i don't want to be accused of seeing other people's problems and forgetting our own. first of all, i want to emphasize that not every refugee is a political refugee. many flee for religious reasons, and most of the refugees are social migrants. and do we know how many of these migrants died last year at the borders of europe or, if you like, at the schengen border? partial measures cannot prevent the transformation of man into a commodity. in today's world, there is a specific responsibility of rich nations, states and regions. responsibility for the development of poor countries, so that there is no reason to flee sub-saharan africa, whether for social, religious or political reasons.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, i would like to say that one of the values of the european union is that stability is indivisible. and by helping to integrate serbia into the family of european nations, we are actually helping european stability. i would also like to say that serbia is the central economy of the balkans, so by integrating serbia we are stabilizing the balkans as a region. thirdly, i would like to stress that by integrating the balkans and stabilising serbia as the central country in the region, we will help to take the ground from under any chauvinism. chauvinism is the enemy of european integration and it is the enemy of stability. regarding what professor schöpflin said, i would like to say openly that vojvodina, for example, which he mentioned as a deterrent example, is an example of tolerance, because there are many ethnic communities there and even a small czech or slovak community can enjoy the benefit of having its own schooling and access to the media. so it's not true that there's discrimination. serbia has recently launched a bold fight against organised crime and a very ambitious judicial reform. it was able to remove 1,600 judges who were involved with organized crime in a short period of time. i think we should support this effort.
mr president, the enlargement policy is one of the most successful policies of the european union in recent years. the enlargement policy has brought peace, stability, cooperation and prosperity to the countries of central and eastern europe. i think it is our common goal to bring this successful concept to the western balkans. croatia has successfully completed the negotiation process and, if all goes well, will become a full member in july next year. today we are talking about serbia. serbia is a key country for the entire western balkans region in terms of political, strategic, historical, economic and cultural aspects. it is very encouraging to hear and read the positive reports coming from belgrade and from this country. it is quite possible that in the future, when historians look back at the first half of 2012, it will be this period that represents a key turning point in the integration of serbia. from this perspective, the agreement reached in february with pristina on kosovo's representation in regional groupings is of crucial importance. and of course, the granting of candidate status is also of crucial importance. but we should continue at the present pace, i.e. the commission should allow serbia to open accession negotiations as soon as possible. but of course the serbs will also have to do their homework, i.e. continue both the internal reform process and the approximation of european law, and the normalisation of relations with kosovo. so this is the basic content of the message. we, the social democrats, support this report and wish serbia every success on its path to the european union.
the granting of candidate country status to serbia is undoubtedly an important step. it is of unquestionable importance in the context of further developments in the western balkans and should therefore be welcomed. it will now be important to harness this positive momentum, especially in serbia itself. to avoid the candidate status being lost, the entry interviews should start without delay. any further delay in this respect is unjustified. we know that serbia is at least as prepared for such negotiations today as croatia was in the autumn of 2005. and it is most desirable to make this common political will known to the wider serbian public - after all, there will be parliamentary elections in may. however, the issue of kosovo remains open. the čssd belongs to the party within the european political scene that does not agree with the declaration of its unilateral independence. i personally think it is a mistake to make serbia's integration into europe dependent on its relationship with kosovo. and for the same reason, i am embarrassed that the european commission is starting to draw up a 'feasibility study' on kosovo to assess the possibility of preparing a stabilisation and association agreement. however, i am aware that this is a political price that needs to be paid at the moment in order to break the current deadlock. but only the future will tell us how much it really pays off.
mr president, if we want this parliament to retain its authority over the citizens of our member states, we must respond to the current economic situation. in practice, this means the need for a thrifty and efficient management of public money. the report we are now discussing is in many ways moving in the right direction. i'm glad it includes a commitment not to increase any pay for mps and assistants until the end of this term. i am also glad that he is clearly and unequivocally saying that the biggest potential savings in the european parliament's budget chapter are in reducing the number of seats in our institution. i hope that this statement will remain in the text of the resolution after tomorrow's vote. it is not justifiable in the eyes of the public that we spend over 200 million euros a year on moving between brussels and strasbourg. it has to stop. overall, however, the report estimates that the european parliament's budget will increase by 1.9% next year compared with this year, excluding the cost of croatia's accession. i still think that's too much of an increase. the right thing to do is to keep the cost at the current level and not increase it.
mr. chairman, i'd like to comment on an incident that has struck our continent for the second year in a row. it's about the summer time change. the commission and the studies i looked for confirm that no economic or energy savings are being made in europe by changing time. on the other hand, many people complain about change. for sensitive people, certain health problems may also be temporary. a survey conducted 10 years ago showed that half of europeans did not want to change the clock. i therefore call on the european commission once again to take an active interest in abolishing the time change in the union. and i'm here to inform you, colleagues, that a committee has been formed to begin collecting 1 million signatures under a citizens' initiative, whose name and goal is "only one time". anyone, except meps, can join the challenge of my colleague, czech senator petr schiller.
in writing. in their resolution of 7 july 2011 on the scheme for the distribution of food to the poorest persons in the union, meps decided that the commission must take action to avoid a dramatic reduction in food aid within the eu. a sudden change in the funding of an existing and functioning scheme without prior warning or preparation would have a major impact on the most vulnerable eu citizens. the commission's own estimates put 43 million people in the european union at risk of food shortages and that number could continue to rise as a result of the economic and financial crisis and the sharp rise in food prices. reducing poverty and social exclusion is one of the five priorities of the europe 2020 strategy. i therefore welcome the commission's statement that it has promised to continue the programme beyond 2014. the european union budget should continue to part-finance this programme, even though some member states are calling for a reduction in the eu budget. i consider the demand by some member states to end the food aid programme outrageous, because it comes at a time when the poorest are being hit hardest by the consequences of a crisis that they did not cause.
in writing. the eu's food distribution programme for the poorest currently helps some 18 million european citizens in a total of 20 member states. as i have recently had the opportunity to observe in practice in my own country, this aid in its present form works and works effectively. moreover, it is estimated that another 43 million europeans may soon face food shortages. i therefore see no reason why, at a time when we are facing major social problems, we should withdraw this food aid. that is why i fully support the continuation of this programme. if the programme is to continue under the esf, it must not be about solidarity between the poor and the poor. we should also consider the circumstances and causes of poverty in general and focus on its prevention.
for the s&d group. mr president, as the s&d group's shadow rapporteur, i particularly welcome the european investment bank's extensive support for the so-called convergence regions, which accounted for almost 41% of total eib lending in the european union, and the fact that almost 30% of eib lending in 2010 went to projects directly contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. i want to focus briefly on four points in my talk. firstly, on the eib's responsibility: in march this year, following the opinion of our committee on budgetary control, the european parliament recommended that a system of prudential regulatory oversight of the european investment bank be introduced, either through the european central bank or the european banking authority, with the possible involvement of an independent auditor. the second point concerns the issue of offshore financial centres and tax havens. in particular in the current context of the ongoing financial and economic crisis, it is important to ensure that eib financing operations do not contribute to any form of tax evasion or even money laundering. thirdly, in the light of the economic and financial crisis, we consider it necessary to provide a higher volume of credit for structural programmes that support economic recovery and growth. in this context, it is essential that the eib not only continues to offer similar instruments to countries facing financial difficulties, but also strongly supports countries with good financial discipline and convergence regions. at the same time, it is also very important that the eib develops and implements a strategy to maintain its aaa rating, which is a fundamental element of the bank's activities. fourthly, i welcome the eib's approach to the idea of european union project bonds. and i am very pleased that in october this year the european commission finally presented the relevant legislative proposal for the initiative, which should be launched as early as 2012-2013. on this occasion, i would like to recall that it was the s&d group in the european parliament that supported new financial measures at eu level as an alternative to the austerity measures and cuts in public spending currently being implemented by most european governments.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, we oppose this repositioning; we would like to vote on the amendment as it is.
in writing. in the context of the revision of regulation (ec) no 261/2004 laying down common rules on compensation and assistance to air passengers in the event of denied boarding, cancellation or significant delay of flights, the commission should clarify the concept of 'extraordinary circumstances' and define the concept of 'cancellation of a flight', and should also adopt rules governing the area of assistance and the right to financial compensation and damages. at the same time, i would consider it desirable to take account of the level of protection afforded to passengers by the european court of justice and its interpretation of the concept of 'extraordinary circumstances'. the current scope for challenging the rules on refunds and for different approaches to their enforcement at member state level cannot be considered adequate even in the light of events such as the volcanic ash crisis in 2010. in this context, the commission should establish a uniform, complete and detailed system for assessing the probative value of evidence submitted by air carriers to prove 'extraordinary circumstances'. in this context, i consider it urgently necessary to establish clear rules as regards the content, availability, timing and accuracy of the information provided to air passengers, which should relate to the reasons for flight delays or cancellations, the expected duration of flight problems and the alternative travel options available to passengers.
in writing. − in today's vote i supported the report by the rapporteur, mr k. taylor, on his own initiative on the functioning and application of acquired rights of persons in air transport, as it is an important call to the commission to come forward as soon as possible with proposals to address the ever-growing number of complaints by european air passengers. it is unacceptable that, according to the 2010 statistics, 57% of the total number of 44 000 transport complaints were in the field of air passenger rights. airlines should start treating their customers fairly, providing clear information in a language they understand, and providing free and fast transportation back home in the event of problems or their own bankruptcy. the commission must present such adaptations to regulation (ec) no 261/2004 as will, in the first place, make it easier to enforce the obligation of airlines to fulfil their obligations towards passengers even in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency or loss of licence. i also support the creation of a uniform system for the assessment of evidence proving so-called extraordinary circumstances. these are the most common excuses airlines use when they refuse to compensate passengers. the requirement that passengers are entitled to full information about their rights in the language in which the booking was made is also an important challenge.
in writing. - i didn't support the report. it's not that i don't agree with passenger rights. it's not that i disagree with the requirement for a uniform complaint handling system. it is not that i do not agree with greater awareness and information for passengers. when wizzair dropped 180 czech passengers in barcelona in february this year and announced that they would not be reimbursed, i realized how toothless the law can be in the real world and how helpless the passengers really are. but we have to realize that nothing is free. if you limit the generous rights of passengers for delayed flights, for delayed baggage, for assistance in the case of people with disabilities, etc., we have to realize that someone will have to pay for it. the requirement that the financial costs be borne by the carriers alone and not by the passengers, as the report suggests, is unrealistic in my view. when we buy a ticket from a low-cost airline for 1 euro, we should not expect that if the flight is delayed by 2 hours, we will automatically be entitled to refreshments, phone calls, or some other form of compensation in excess of the original price of the ticket. in this respect, we should in future create a dual system that would allow passengers to choose between the price of their ticket and the associated comfort and security of their travel. we don't have to protect the passengers, no matter what the cost.
in writing. in his report, derek vaughan proposes substantial savings in the european parliament's budget, reflecting the current economic situation in europe. the general secretariat originally proposed an increase of 2.96% to the ep presidency. however, derek vaughan managed to identify potential savings and thus achieve an increase of only 1.9%, out of the cost of croatia's accession , which is well below inflation. the savings should relate, for example, to travel costs and the reorganisation of translation and interpreting services. this report puts the emphasis on maximising the efficiency of the european parliament's finances, which i fully agree with, and i would therefore like to support it.
in writing. − i believe that the eu must demand the immediate and unconditional release of all political prisoners, otherwise no progress can be made in the eu-belarus dialogue. belarus must make progress towards democracy, human rights and the rule of law. in this context, i consider it necessary that the national hockey federations of the eu member states and all other democratic countries urge the international hockey federation at its upcoming congress in may in helsinki, finland, to reconsider its earlier decision to consider the possibility of hosting the 2014 world hockey championship in a country other than belarus, until all political prisoners recognised by international human rights organisations as prisoners of conscience are released and until the belarusian regime clearly demonstrates its commitment to respect human rights and the rule of law. the council should take into account the latest developments in diplomatic relations between the eu and belarus and the further deterioration of the situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the country and, on that basis, take appropriate decisions on further restrictive measures, including targeted economic sanctions.
in writing. − one of kosovo's problems remains the return of refugees and internally displaced persons. the commission has also been informed that the kosovo authorities are continuing to monitor the situation in the country and that the situation in kosovo is deteriorating. i am deeply concerned about the volatile and tense situation in the north of the country and condemn the violence against the kfor mission in this area, which has resulted in loss of life and injury. the rule of law in the area needs to be restored through a stronger fight against organised crime and criminal structures using the area as a haven beyond the control of any authority. in this context, the kosovo and serbian authorities should expeditiously and fully remove roadblocks and ensure the free movement of people and goods, including access to border crossing points for the international community and kosovo customs authorities. the main problem remains corruption, which undermines citizens' trust in the rule of law and prevents them from accessing public services. the kosovo authorities should make greater efforts to address this issue more actively, in particular by strengthening the capacity of law enforcement and the judiciary in this regard, as well as by ensuring transparency in public procurement and selection procedures.
in writing. − i believe that the involvement of shareholders in european society should be encouraged by strengthening their role, but at the same time that this involvement should be left to the discretion of the shareholders and should never be an obligation. given that the shareholder rights directive supports the principle of equal treatment of shareholders and that all shareholders, whether institutional or non-institutional, have the right to receive the same information from a company, regardless of their shareholding, the commission should submit proposals for pan-european guidelines on this type of information provided to shareholders in annual reports of companies. at the same time, i consider it appropriate for the commission to review all relevant legislation in order to assess whether certain requirements have inadvertently contributed to short-term interest orientation. the commission should consider amending the shareholder rights directive in such a way as to allow for an assessment of ways to further increase shareholder engagement. it is also appropriate to review the role of electronic voting in general meetings of listed companies on the basis of an impact assessment, with a view to encouraging shareholder engagement, in particular with regard to cross-border shareholders.
in writing. - i consider the final version of this report to be reasonable and balanced. in particular, i appreciate that the eu is not pursuing a path of unification and prescription of universal corporate governance rules in this area, but is instead focusing on issuing recommendations addressed to individual member states and sharing examples of good practice. i regret that the commission in its green paper has placed emphasis only on the unitary system of company governance and has hardly reflected the importance of the dual system of representation. the transparency and conflict of interest in corporate governance also require great attention. when imposing obligations on companies and their management bodies, it should always be borne in mind that individual measures should be proportionate to the size of the company and should not create an additional administrative burden.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on friday 20 april 2012 at 12.00 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission, high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, catherine ashton, on the situation in syria.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on friday, 20 april 2012. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in burma.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, for the first time in 50 years we can see some good news coming out of burma/myanmar. the democratic transition, as you describe it, is clearly visible. so is an attempt to end the country’s isolation and so are the attempts to open up the country for more economic development, because burma, due to its isolation for 50 years, was also economically a very underdeveloped country. so there is an opportunity for burma, and of course there is also an opportunity for us. i fully agree with you that we should take this opportunity and help the country as far as democratic development is concerned. you mention the election experts and the election process. yes, those are the right things for us to do and also for this parliament to do. you mention lifting the sanctions. we support you in this regard. we should reward the reformers by gradually lifting the sanctions and giving them the opportunity to successfully complete the process of democratisation, and –as you also mentioned – the national reconciliation between the regime and the opposition, also as far as the ethnic minorities are concerned.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the black sea region is a region of strategic importance. as has already been mentioned, it includes eu member states and candidate countries such as turkey, our strategic partner russia, and of course countries of the eastern neighbourhood. so it is in our interests to help bring security, stability and prosperity to the entire region. it is true that there are frozen conflicts in that region, some of which have been frozen for more than 20 years. what should be done in that region? i think the approach the commissioner mentioned – supporting some of the sector policies such as transport, tourism, energy, the environment – is the right one. if we look at the work the black sea economic cooperation (bsec) and the parliamentary assembly of the black sea economic cooperation are doing, these are exactly the areas which these organisations are looking at. we should support this. there are concepts such as building a black sea highway and linking ports in order to increase trust among the nations alongside the black sea and, of course, to increase tourism, energy security and environmental protection. perhaps through this approach, step by step, we could also contribute to solving some of the frozen conflicts in the region. in other words, i think that the approach presented by the commissioner is the right one and that we should support it. i think we should also be more active as far as our cooperation – the cooperation of the european parliament – with the bsec is concerned.
the reporter. - mr president, we have the opportunity to discuss a proposal to amend the regulation on the coordination of social security systems in the member states. first of all, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs, shadow rapporteurs and other collaborators who have contributed to the fact that today we can - and i believe with great support - approve this amendment to the regulation. the basic objective of the new regulation is to ensure that workers who migrate within the european union, i.e. citizens of any member state, but also stateless persons or refugees, employees and self-employed persons, are covered by the social security system with all the rights and obligations arising therefrom, and are not obliged to pay contributions in two or more countries at the same time. the need to modernise this regulation is related both to changes in national legislation and to the case-law of the court of justice of the european union. the need to simplify, to make the views at issue easier to interpret and to limit their scope. in principle, these relate mainly to three main areas, namely the definition and clarification of the concept of 'essential part of the activity' and the specification of the criteria for possible situations where a person does not carry out a substantial part of his activity in the state in which he is resident. the second important issue is the introduction of the concept of the home airport, which addresses the issue of aircrew, and the solution adopted is that the home airport is the airport from which they depart most often and to which they arrive most often, and accordingly it is determined which legislation, or the legislation of which country, will apply to the aircrew in this case. the last important category is unemployment benefits for frontier workers in self-employment, whether or not they have been insured for unemployment. in some member states, unemployment insurance schemes exist for both the selfemployed and the selfemployed, while in others they do not. this is also taken into account and addressed in the proposed regulation. under this regulation, the selfemployed person will be insured against unemployment in the member state in which he last pursued an activity, even if he returns to the member state of his previous residence. the uncertainty about the coverage of aircrew was resolved by the creation of the concept of a home airport, and it is a place where a crew member usually performs his work. the regulation we are debating today, and which i hope we will adopt, is a practical instrument for the smooth functioning of the common market, because it provides greater protection and security for more mobile workers. selfemployed persons can now also work throughout the common market, knowing that they too will be covered by social security in the event of loss of their livelihood. ladies and gentlemen, i thank you and look forward to discussing this report and thank you for your support.
the reporter. − i would like to thank very quickly the staff of both the commission and the council for their broad support and cooperation. i appreciate very much that the whole debate was one of agreement. i would like to say that the standard in question is not only technical but has a very strong political content. it supports the real completion of a genuinely functioning common market, it supports fundamental freedoms, the movement of goods, services, workers and capital. it promotes the mobility of workers, not only employees but also self-employed persons, by introducing clearer, clearer and simpler rules. our task is to create an environment and a legislative framework for business, not to burden member states, businesses and workers with unnecessary legislation. i would like to emphasise that the rule in question preserves the full sovereignty of the member states in matters of social policy, does not place any additional burden on the already strained budgets of the member states, and does not create false, disproportionate and unfounded expectations. nor does it create any imbalance between the rights and obligations of workers and their employers. this standard therefore fully supports the fundamental principles of the european union as we imagine it should work.
we are currently in a period where the financial and economic crisis is being tackled mainly through austerity measures. these austerity measures, which are designed to increase competitiveness, will eventually lead to the gradual dismantling of the european social model. we need a different policy now, a policy that is focused on promoting growth. the resources in the national budgets should be sought primarily on the revenue side. this is mainly to prevent tax evasion. according to an interesting study on the european grey economy by a british tax advisor for our group, it is estimated that the grey economy in the eu represents about 18% of the economy and if it were to be taxed, it would bring in an additional €864 billion. the fight against tax evasion must be a common eu task. in this context, i support the european parliament's resolution calling for the submission of concrete measures to combat tax fraud and tax evasion.
for the ecr group. mr president, as i listen to the debate, i have made three, shall we say, remarks which, at least, the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs will not be surprised to hear, because they know these remarks from me. first, european conservatives are deeply convinced that tax competition is right and healthy, and any attempt to harmonise tax rates is unacceptable to us. secondly, we consider this report as a breakthrough in the direct taxation system, because from a purely accounting point of view, if in an equation where there are two variables rate and base , you change one of the variables, then you change the overall calculation. so that's the way to break through. thirdly, we insist that this system must be strictly voluntary in the long term, that it should be up to the individual firms whether they join the system or not. i have a whole bunch of other notes, but these are the essentials.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to emphasize that taxation is a matter for the member states alone. that is why i am very concerned about attempts to introduce a consolidated tax base. on the one hand, the proposal argues that the consolidation of the income tax base will reduce the administrative burden on undertakings. unfortunately, they overlook the fact that the common tax base would necessarily have to be broader in some countries than it is at present. this indirectly increases the tax burden in these countries without increasing the nominal tax rates. the proposal is a dragon's egg, with which the commission is trying to break the tax sovereignty of the member states. and he's sneaking in the harmonization of tax rates. all of this comes at a time when the spectre of stagflation is haunting europe. instead of trying to promote competition between the member states, we are trying to stifle competition by means of this sneaky tax harmonization.
as shadow rapporteur of the christian democrats in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i pushed through the amendment to guarantee the fiscal neutrality of the directive. it is not possible that in times of crisis, for example, belgium could have higher contributions to the national budget at the expense of others, for example the czech republic. the wording of the economic and monetary committee does not deal with this in substance, but in a political declaration. i trust, however, that the council will respect it. i welcome the fact that the economic and monetary committee has taken up our proposals on the fight against tax evasion, stricter rules for tax havens, administrative simplification for crossborder companies, flexibility in out-of-court dispute settlement and that the optional nature of this 28-nation sme regime has been maintained. i also support the introduction of a uniform tax form and thank you for that. i am very pleased that the proposals for a minimum tax rate have not been adopted, but that the tax sovereignty of the states, including the level of tax rates, and thus the principle of tax competition, has been clearly confirmed. i do not consider it fortunate that the individual requirements which should all be included in the future revision of this directive are so general. but i am very much in favour of this common consolidated tax base. the directive as it stands will undoubtedly be of great benefit to entrepreneurs. i would like czech entrepreneurs to be able to choose this readable and stable european system. however, the council is expected to veto the proposal, so it is likely that it will only be continued under enhanced cooperation and will only apply in certain countries. i hope that for other countries, including the czech republic, the european system will at least be an example of what and how it is reasonable to include in the tax base, so that entrepreneurs are not discouraged from paying taxes in our country.
in writing. an effective tax system is an important part of the functioning of the internal market, which is one of the key pillars of the eu's competitiveness. for this reason, the discussion on the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) is a step in the right direction, especially in view of the ongoing economic problems in the eu. i therefore welcome the commission's intention to unify the ccctb within the eu, which is part of the current process of designing new tax systems, is consistent with the shift towards greener growth and more supportive taxation, and thus supports the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i would like to recall that the relevant tax revenues will be allocated to each member state on the basis of a clearly defined mechanism based on the employment, assets and turnover parameters which has been sensitively adjusted on the basis of a political consensus that took more than ten years to negotiate. i therefore hope that the planned impact assessment of the ccctb five years after its entry into force will be positive and that it will serve as an example of good practice also in non-eu countries. overall, the report presented to ms thyssen provides a detailed analysis of the issue, refers to the relevant legislation and also contains adequate recommendations in the area of the ccctb, and i therefore recommend that it be approved as proposed.
for the ecr group. mr president, the directive before us is an important part of a very important debate on the energy policy of the european union. unfortunately, the proposal presented again brings strong administrative intervention in the energy sector. the current preference and sometimes excessive direct financial support for renewables may further worsen the market situation. for example, in some countries there has been excessive support for pv with long-term commitments to purchase electricity at multiple price levels. today, it turns out that the result is a huge business with very negative impacts. the result is often dramatic, unbearable increases in the price of energy for businesses and citizens, and governments' efforts to curb this fiscally dangerous development. i would therefore be concerned about such a strong regulatory intervention, which could cause a deterioration in production potential in many countries, but could also have unpredictably significant effects on the social areas of the member states. overall, this may threaten the european union's competitiveness in the world.
in writing. while the current directive 2003/96/ec on the taxation of energy products and electricity sets out rules on taxable products, exemptions, minimum tax rates for fuels and electricity according to the amount of energy consumed, the new proposal prioritises linking energy policy with the objectives of a low-carbon economy. the commission proposes to divide energy taxation into two parts. one of them is to be a co2 tax (eur 20 per tonne of co2) and the other a payment according to the energy content of the product. member states will be able to increase both parts of the tax above these minimum rates. i welcome the fact that the reduced tax rates will be retained for agriculture as a strategic sector for the livelihood of the population. i accept the arguments for better use of energy resources and for greater use of less polluting energy. however, i am concerned, as is the rapporteur, about the sharp rise in energy and fuel prices, particularly diesel. this increase would not only burden direct consumers but also the entire european economy. it is essential that we also look at the global economy and consider the consequences of our decisions more carefully than ever before. the introduction of a fuel and energy tax that will apply only to eu member states will create new unequal conditions on the global market and will consequently place even more burdens on our economies.
for the ecr group. we are discussing today the measures that the european commission is taking to deal with the impact of the high debt of some member states that have liquidity and de facto credit problems. it is certainly important for the european economy to facilitate the approval of loans, whether by the european investment bank or other financial institutions. but i'm convinced that too much interference in the credit market is not appropriate. in fact, each bank, including the european investment bank, must assess the credit risk according to its usual criteria and set the interest rate accordingly to cover all the costs of the money borrowed. if in the future the applicant gets it just because we now transfer part of the cohesion policy funds to the guarantees, that is not ideal in my view. because we're going to solve the current problem of low liquidity, but soon we're going to have to solve the problem of non-performing loans, and that's not going to help the economy. i would therefore like to call for maximum emphasis to be placed in future on strengthening the effectiveness of cohesion policy rather than on 'merely' absorbing funds.
mr president, at the present time of the economic and financial crisis, when banking institutions are literally risk averse, there are problems in the lending sector. the financial institutions are experiencing liquidity problems and there is a limitation of resources for the stakeholders implementing the relevant projects. i therefore agree that the possibility of using risk-sharing instruments in cooperation with the european investment bank will ensure better access to funds and partially solve the liquidity problem, which should allow the continuation of the implementation of cohesion policy programmes in the short term. however, i am concerned that in the case of countries that have significant financial stability problems and are unable to capture the progress of projects with due diligence, it is unlikely that aid in this form will have an immediate positive effect on increasing economic growth and employment in these countries. that is why i could not support this motion for a resolution.
i recognize the importance of fighting international terrorism and international crime. i understand that you have to have certain tools to do that, but this deal, which i've been lobbied for by people from the american embassy in my own country, is not one of those tools. leaving aside all the legal twists and turns, the fact remains that under this agreement, it is possible for the american side to download personal data of european citizens, and that sensitive data will then be available in the united states of america without any real control over its further fate. this information may include your home address, mobile phone number, age information, e-mail address, credit card or account number, and ethnic or national background. the argument that the treaty is good because the bilateral treaties of the member states are worse is bizarre. the argument that the contract is good because otherwise the united states will enforce passenger data on european airlines itself is frightening. if anyone wants to build a police state, let them do it themselves. the european union should be free and democratic. that is why i did not support the report or the agreement, and i thank the former rapporteur for her personal courage.
mr president, i voted against this motion for a resolution because i believe that the system of the consolidated tax base should be voluntary in the long term. if it were to be mandatory for all companies operating in the european territory, it would create an unnecessary administrative burden for those companies operating in one country and would have to switch to this system. the compulsory system may also increase costs and thus reduce competitiveness on the european market, especially for smes. therefore, the system of the consolidated tax base should be voluntary and sufficiently advantageous to attract as many companies as possible. i cannot agree with this motion for a resolution because its rules are gradually leading to the unification of tax rates, and this is stifling tax competition, which is very good for the market. there are many fundamental differences in tax rules and rates between member states and it should be up to the national parliaments of the member states alone to decide how high a rate they impose on their taxpayers.
in writing. - i share the feelings of an entrepreneur who, thanks to the open single market, does business in several eu countries and wonders how to pay taxes from individual establishments according to different legislative principles in europe. the complexity of the profit and loss account is a problematic burden. the entrepreneur will thus be able to choose whether to go down this more complex route or to use the possibilities of the common consolidated corporate tax base. at the same time, it also addresses the issue of double taxation, which will lead to less tax evasion. last but not least, the administrative burden will be reduced. at the same time, as a social democrat, i welcome any harmonisation in the eu's common economic area. that's why i supported the motion.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution calling for specific ways of combating tax fraud and tax evasion, with the aim of making the fight against such practices more effective. tax evasion accounts for more than €860 billion a year, which is lost to the budgets of individual eu member states. they also undermine citizens' confidence in the fair collection of taxes and the fair distribution of the tax burden. the policy of fiscal stabilisation must be directed precisely towards a more consistent and effective fight against tax evasion. according to a study by our s&d group, we lose in the czech republic an amount corresponding to 83,5% of total public expenditure on healthcare each year. there is also a lack of resources for public investment or job creation.
commissioner, we asked you a question about the designation 'local product'. although there are binding european rules protecting regional products, it appears that there is no definition of what can be declared as local products, so that things imported from hundreds of kilometres away are not sold as local products at popular farmers' markets. but it's not just farmers' markets that provide access to the regional produce of small farmers that are deceiving consumers. i don't like the fact that czech honey from turkey is sold or old czech salami from poland or elsewhere. we therefore ask the european commission to propose, as part of its normative agenda, a definition of what can be issued and sold as a local or local product. it may look like a "sparrow-gun" approach, but it's not. the problem is universal across europe and often concerns border areas, and it is therefore appropriate to address it by means of a european agreement on the definition of such a designation. there may be different approaches to defining what is and is not a local product. in particular, farmers should indicate whether they wish to be informed, for example, of the distance covered by the goods on their way from the field to the customer, or of the exact address of the place of production, or of other data. but they may also have other proposals for mandatory and simultaneously verifiable data that will help buyers and control authorities to quickly identify where the goods come from. not only will consumers appreciate this, because they will be sure that these products are locally sourced, but everyone will benefit, including by reducing the number of long-haul trucks crossing european roads.
mr president, the increase in the supply of so-called local food or products is also a reaction to the confused confidence in the internal market. customers have doubts about its fairness, the quality of the products and often have conflicting impressions about their origin. the fear of being outsourced, but also of importing inferior products, leads consumers to demand local production, which they consider more reliable in terms of quality. not only is it a question of whether this is the case, but of course it is also necessary to clarify what can be described as local food or production. producers and traders often try to accommodate local customs and offer globalised foodstuffs adapted to local taste preferences. they could, however, rather contribute to confidence in the internal market by offering products of the same quality throughout the european union, provided they are labelled as such. i believe that customers would appreciate it at least as much as an offer from a local manufacturer, if they still exist.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, i support and welcome the proposal for additional funding for the iter project. for a number of reasons. i have long held the view that nuclear fusion may be the chance for mankind to solve the fundamental problem of energy production in the future. we don't have many options like that. and i am convinced that europe should be at the forefront of research and development. in the european parliament we have always supported this trend. of course, with the need for transparency and the efficient use of considerable resources for priority projects. but we must overcome the constant foot-dragging around the funding problems of key eu initiatives. everything has a price. crisis is not an argument. on the contrary, projects such as iter need to be supported to overcome it and look to the future. the programme also provides opportunities for smaller eu countries and is a vital source of income for smes involved in the production of components of the merger programme. it would be shortsighted not to try, even indirectly, to use sun and water for the good of man, even though the crucial results of the iter project may be missed by some of us.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on friday 20 april 2012 at 12.00 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr filip kaczmarek, on behalf of the committee on development, on the transfer of powers in the field of external aid management from the commission and its impact on aid delivery (2011/2192 ((ini)) (a7-0056/2012)
that's the end of the matter. the vote will take place on friday 20 april 2012 at 12.00 noon. (the sitting was suspended for a few minutes.) the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by lászló tőkés, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the modernisation of european higher education systems (2011/2294(ini))
mr president, in the context of this report, i would like to support the successful erasmus programme, which promotes student mobility and multilingualism in higher education. i would also like to stress that in order to face the ever-increasing competition in asian markets, europe needs to tap into all the potential in science, research and engineering professions. i am thinking here mainly of the untapped potential of women in academia and women in science. in our century, there is no convincing reason why horizontal gender segregation persists in the choice of study fields and subsequently in the labour market. perhaps because, unfortunately, in academia and in science, we often encounter traditional gender roles that are accepted as a social norm. but i am convinced that we cannot break through the existing structures and traditional notions on the basis of quotas. unfortunately, these ideas have been incorporated in the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, for which i was rapporteur, but i must say that i am fundamentally against these binding measures.
that concludes the point. the vote will take place on friday 20 april 2012 at 12.00 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the report is called modernization of higher education systems. it suggests that more than one third of the population should have a university degree by 2020. in the report, the author erroneously states 'high level of qualification'. in my experience, a college degree and a high-level qualification have a very loose relationship. it is rightly said that the responsibility for higher education lies with the member states, yet for many years there have been repeated attempts to declare certain higher education schemes as the best. a typical example of the failure of such attempts is the large-scale production of 'practically oriented' bachelors under the bologna declaration. most university educators, especially from technical fields where there is a real need for good knowledge and the result of the study can be compared relatively easily between institutions, agree that the bachelor's degree of higher education is to be the theoretical basis for further engineering or master's studies. it does not consider student loans to be a genuine support or an improvement of the conditions for study either in the country of origin or abroad. it's an attempt to use social censorship to limit the ability of students from lower-income families to go to college, and to encourage the richest students to start life after college. the mention of lifelong learning is highly inorganic. i would therefore like to express my deepest regret at this report.
the final item is the report by silvia-adriana ţicău, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on a competitive digital single market egovernment as a pioneering act (2011/2178(ini))
that's the end of the matter. the vote will take place on friday 20 april 2012 at 12.00 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. e-government is a tool whose successful implementation will not only facilitate communication between citizens and businesses with public administrations, but also increase public involvement in the democratic policy-making process through transparent public consultation. unfortunately, there are still groups of citizens, for example those of retirement age, who do not have sufficient access to online services and therefore have difficulty in accessing e-government services. although in my country, citizens over 65 years old have been the fastest growing percentage of internet users over the last five years, it's still only 13 percent of citizens. the commission should therefore ensure that the use of these services does not lead to a deepening of the digital divide and social disparities, but to the positive benefits already mentioned. the key, in my view, is the role of education. increase basic literacy and citizens' access to information and communication technologies and ensure that egovernment services can be effectively used by the masses and by all social groups of citizens. only then will we fully exploit the considerable potential for the development of online services in a digital europe. however, we must not forget those who will always have very limited access to the internet and therefore must not allow a group of citizens to be formed in this direction, who will find themselves in an information and communication vacuum.
in writing. the biodiversity conservation objectives were not met by 2010 for a number of reasons, but mainly because biodiversity was not a priority in all policy areas and in all economic sectors. i therefore welcome the european parliament's resolution, which understands that the solution is not just to come up with a new strategy for biodiversity protection, but above all to integrate biodiversity into the debate on the policies currently under discussion, which will have a decisive impact on biodiversity. the common agricultural policy should not only focus on ensuring sufficient quantities of good quality food and rural development through subsidies to farmers. the cap is also a key tool for conserving biodiversity. it is therefore necessary to ensure the consistency of the whole system and to clearly identify and abolish as soon as possible such subsidies which have a negative impact on the environment. the reform of the common fisheries policy, which is currently under discussion, will be equally crucial, and must immediately reduce destructive fishing practices. the soil directive should also be discussed as a matter of urgency, as soil pollution needs to be reduced and more attention needs to be paid to the protection of soil biodiversity. like rain forests, coral reefs, and inland freshwater areas, it is threatened to such an extent that remediation, if possible, is often very costly, as ecosystems are shifted to other, less productive states from which they can recover only very difficultly or not at all.
mr president, i would just like to remind you that it is not necessary to repeat what we already have here on our screen, i.e. that there was a certain number in favour, a certain number against and a certain number abstaining. we could save time by having a roll-call vote.
in writing. - the modernisation of european education has been discussed for at least this whole parliamentary term. but i fear that there are fundamental errors that are degrading our higher education to the level of merely obtaining a degree. the rapporteur refers to higher education as highly qualified education, two completely different concepts that may not be directly proportional. a growing problem is the growing number of university graduates in the european population, with more than a third of the population having obtained a university degree. and we're increasingly short of traditional craftsmen. it is essential that we realise that many university graduates who are unemployed will not get europe out of the crisis. i'm all for connecting vocational high schools with the business community. on the one hand we want to enable all young people to go to university, on the other hand we are consequently unable to offer them any adequate employment. the jobs that are available on the market are usually of an artisanal nature. let us consider, then, whether we are doing something wrong here. we're driving young people into a vicious circle of unemployment. let us instead offer and support the traditional and new craft sectors that our economy needs. despite my reservations, the report is a contribution to this problem, and i am therefore in favour of its adoption.
mr president, to understand this proposal in depth, we need to go back to 2007, when the regulation of roaming was introduced. at that time, it was said that the measure would be temporary for two years. the regulation was subsequently extended until 2012. we're already talking about regulation here today, until 2022. the period of regulation at european level is therefore at least 15 years. i'm not here to defend the mobile phone companies. the fact that they were at least in agreement when setting roaming prices is well known. however, five years of experience in regulating the final prices for roaming calls justifies the critics of this form of regulation. because the final call prices are generally kept within the upper price ceiling. price regulation should be a marginal, emergency solution for the time being. because any regulation is a brake on innovation. for example, this regulation proposes to fix the wholesale price of sms by 2022. in 10 years. that's comparable to what it would have been like ten years ago to determine what the price of using a telegraph, which is a completely dead service, is today. instead of regulating prices, we should try to introduce more market mechanisms into the telecommunications environment. yes, the proposal in question introduces an interesting innovation the separate sale of national mobile services and regulated mobile services. i stress the word "regulated". unfortunately, we are not creating a new market environment, but a new quasi-proposal with distorted regulation that will suit only a few multinational oligopolistic players.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, a few comments on the proposal. firstly, it is about the development and integration of our single european market. it affects 380 million clients. that in itself is progress. clients are given the freedom of choice and their protection is strengthened. the third thing that i think is very important is that small and mediumsized firms are given access to foreign networks and that competition is thereby strengthened. which in turn translates into lower prices. but there are still a number of things that i think are left. for example, the enforcement of uniform model contracts to allow market access. it is also necessary to ensure that operators cannot compensate for so-called losses by relying on domestic calls. i don't think any of this diminishes the meaning of the text. i would like to thank mrs niebler for her considerable efforts to make this amendment much more complex than the previous one. and to those who talk about how this is a detriment to market solutions, i would like to remind you of the well-known truth that market liberalism is actually the protectionism of the privileged.
ladies and gentlemen, at first glance, it may seem that the regulation of roaming is a good thing that works flawlessly. for example, tourists on vacation no longer hesitate to answer the phone. the problem is that the setting of price ceilings as an administrative intervention in the market environment has its negative effects elsewhere in the telecommunications market. the aim was to increase competitiveness in the roaming market. however, this has not happened, as evidenced by the fact that the prices of the regulated services are kept well below the price ceilings set by the regulation currently in force. in addition, in our country, the regulation has affected the prices of other telecommunications products, with, for example, the price of sms service for all three operators increasing, in some cases several times. i am therefore convinced that price regulation based on price ceilings does not fulfil its primary function and i warn against an overly ambitious approach to regulation in this sector. we will promote competitiveness by removing barriers to entry for new players, rather than by tying the telecoms market down until 2022.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the future of the european union. virtual operators will now have the right to access other operators' networks at regulated wholesale prices. in fact, despite all the fairy tales about the market environment, operators in my country have not been interested in providing their networks to virtual operators and, due to their market dominance, have not provided them. it is difficult to talk about a single telecommunications market when we have different tariffs within the european union and absolutely absurd, unjustifiably high prices, not because of market competition, not for technical reasons, but because of the perverse pricing policy of transnational cartels, which is based on the existence of administrative borders and nothing else. now, slowly but surely, the consumer and the market are being taken out of the clutches of cartels and artificial barriers. it is worth noting that in this case the actual market, the market in favour of the customer and the competitive environment in favour of the customer must be created by regulation. the time is therefore approaching when europeans will be able to call their loved ones from their mobile phones, use maps and navigation on their tablets, or use e-mail when on holiday, without fear of being stranded in the european union. i'm really grateful for this signal that our politics can at least sometimes put the interests of the people before the interests of the corporations, and i would like to thank from this place the rapporteur niebler and especially the shadow rapporteur goebbels for a great, really great job.
in writing. many europeans anxiously switch off their mobile phones when travelling abroad for holidays, sometimes before leaving their own country. they are afraid that, even if by accident, they will activate a roaming call that will, at best, exhaust their prepaid credit, at worst, raise the flat rate to dizzying heights. i therefore welcome the fact that agreement has been reached on further gradual reductions in roaming charges by 2014. although the resulting price limits will be reduced by tens of percent, this is still only a partial success. we must aim for a single european market in call and data rates without differences between domestic and roaming tariffs. it is a symbol of how far we are still from a declared single internal market without artificial barriers.
in writing. directive 98/44/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 6 july 1998 on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions, and in particular article 4 thereof, states that plant varieties, animal breeds and essentially biological methods of plant production and animal husbandry are not patentable. yet, recently, patents have been granted by the epo for the production of conventionally grown plants, such as broccoli, tomatoes, or melons. as a biologist, i strongly disagree with the patenting of basic biological processes by multinational corporations that share control of the breeding, farming, food industries, and thus the food supply for the world's growing population. as a politician, i fully support the european parliament's call for the biotechnology inventions directive to be implemented consistently and for the commission and the member states to ensure that the eu continues to apply the broad breeding exception for plant and animal breeding in its patent law.
i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work and their rational approach. as in previous years, the european court of auditors found a number of weaknesses in the management of the various institutions and agencies. as far as the commission is concerned, we see a recurring problem in shared management in cooperation with the control authorities of the member states. given that there are two areas with an alarming error rate, it is necessary to adopt urgently a regime that would allow the commission to assess the individual difficulties of the member states and to react to them in a timely manner. the large number of errors in the management of the agencies is worrying. we are therefore pleased that the rapporteur has decided to postpone the discharge for four of them. we should consider ways of achieving operational cost reductions, for example also by sharing services between agencies according to their proximity to the location or their policy area. as far as the european parliament is concerned, we support the search for savings, for example by reducing the expenditure on awarding prizes, as the rapporteur has already said, or by reducing the expenditure on the presentation of parliament, such as the expenditure on the parliamentarium or the house of european history. in conclusion, until the european union budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors, the european conservatives and reformists group decided not to support the discharge for any part of the european union budget, and decided instead to support the deferral in those cases where the rapporteur proposes it.
in writing. as rapporteur for the committee on budgetary control, let me stress the importance of the european court of auditors' report no 7/2011 entitled 'is agri-environmental support well set and managed?' and our recommendations (paragraphs 74 to 83) contained in the report. agrienvironmental measures are an important eu policy and the eu's allocation for these payments for the period 2007-13 is eur 22.2 billion. since 2000, agri-environmental payments have been part of the eu's rural development policy, with the commission sharing the management with the member states. the commission shall evaluate and approve the rural development programmes drawn up and submitted by the member states. the purpose of the payments is to encourage farmers to use methods compatible with the protection and improvement of the environment. according to the court, agri-environmental policy was not set up to provide specific environmental benefits. the objectives of agri-environmental payments are not specific enough to assess their achievement, the environmental problems mentioned do not constitute a clear justification for granting agri-environmental payments, and the implementation of the policy cannot be easily monitored. this means that member states must set out clearly targeted rural development programmes and that the commission must assess programmes more rigorously before they are approved. in this context, it is necessary to target agri-environment schemes to more specific priorities for the next programming period. agri-environmental payments can achieve the desired effects in the areas of biodiversity, the conservation and development of agricultural and forestry systems with natural value, water protection and the fight against climate change.
mr president, i voted against the discharge to the european commission, and that was mainly for one reason, namely that the european court of auditors could not again issue a statement of assurance. another reason is that the european commission is still supporting what i believe to be very risky financial engineering instruments and is even going to do so in the next multiannual framework. in this case, i think the criticism is justified, because there are no clear rules on the use of these financial instruments and there are no rules on transparency. i believe that until we know the names of the final beneficiaries and all the details, we will not have rules for the periodic reporting of these financial instruments, nor should we support them. in conclusion, however, i would like to say that i voted in favour of the following report, that is to say, i voted in favour of the special reports of the european court of auditors which relate specifically to the commission's management, because i believe that the committee on budgetary control has discussed this report and the commission's management in general in great detail in this respect and that both the committee on budgetary control and the rapporteur have taken a very critical view of this matter, which i agree with.
in writing. − in the light of the current global crisis, i support the adoption of measures to protect the financial interests of the eu, but also of other eu member states. at present, member states are pursuing very austerity policies which in many cases are undermining overall economic growth. in this context, i believe that the focus should be on the shadow economy, which is estimated to represent 20% of gdp. i believe that if we could tax this grey economy, we could get additional funds to consolidate budgets and ensure economic growth. given the interconnectedness of the eu economies, i consider it important for eu member states to work together to find ways of curbing the grey economy.
mr president, the charter of fundamental rights and freedoms establishes the european union on the indivisible and universal values of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity. title iii of the charter talks about equality before the law and the prohibition of discrimination. the european treaties speak of european citizenship. the european commission likes to call itself the guardian of the treaties, and perhaps it would be good if it were much more active in ensuring that european citizens have equal access to the fundamental principles of the treaties, rather than creating second-class european citizens by its inaction. canada introduced a unilateral visa requirement for citizens of the czech republic in july 2009, without any reciprocal action by the european union. the alleged reason for the introduction of this visa requirement was the large number of asylum seekers from the czech republic. however, in the context of the fact that other member states have subsequently begun to 'supply' canada with a greater number of asylum seekers without any action on the part of canada, i cannot ignore the commission's previous hesitancy and inconsistency in this matter. are there any truth to the rumours of a purposed, informal agreement between the commissioner and her canadian counterpart to prevent other member states from being subjected to the same discrimination as my country? has the commission simply thrown some of the citizens of the european union overboard? i don't know, and i hope not. in any case, i hope that the european commission will finally heed all the challenges and push for the end of the visa requirement for some european citizens travelling to canada. with my esteemed colleagues parvanova and bodu, i wrote a personal letter to canadian prime minister harper on 18 october 2011, alerting him to the possible political connection between this unilateral introduction of the visa requirement and the approval process of the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta). the letter has remained unanswered to this day. if this situation is not resolved quickly, i would not be surprised to see problems with the ratification of ceta not only in the parliament of the czech republic.
in writing. when i hear the same old lament about how canada is making second-class citizens of three eu countries, namely bulgaria, the czech republic and romania, i can't help but feel that we are crying well but on the wrong grave. the three countries should put their house in order to avoid a mass exodus of the minority population, which, thanks to the social policies implemented in these three countries, finds itself in unbearable and intractable living conditions.
i welcome the debate on visa reciprocity with canada in the context of the negotiated eu-canada trade agreement, but i am not pleasantly surprised that it is taking place only after i and my colleagues had to submit a question for oral answer on this matter. i am still amazed at the approach of the european commission, which does what is convenient for the canadian side and does not effectively prevent discrimination against the countries concerned. the european parliament already warned of the dangers of not ratifying international treaties with canada two years ago in a written declaration that i initiated. this is not a mere warning, as the czech parliament is already blocking the aviation agreement because of this situation. czech lawmakers are considering blocking a future trade deal as long as the visa non-reciprocity, which celebrates its third anniversary in july, lasts. i do not think it is effective to convene a working group on the problem of the large influx of unfounded asylum applications, as the core of the problem lies in canadian asylum law, not in eu member states. moreover, a working group between canada and the czech republic with the ec's participation was already set up in 2009 and no progress was made. i call on the ec to support the amendment proposed by myself and my colleagues to the third country visa regulation as an effective, visible and significant pressure on canada, otherwise the eu risks future complications in eu-canadian relations.
madam president, the report on the strategy to strengthen the rights of vulnerable consumers addresses a wide range of issues where the current situation in the single market does not guarantee sufficient protection for european consumers. a vulnerable consumer is any citizen who has difficulty in accessing the information necessary to make a relevant purchase, i.e. his decision, or who simply does not understand the information available to him correctly. whether it is the sale of goods at trade shows, the exercise of the right to make a complaint or the purchase of products sold in seemingly identical packaging but with slightly different composition within the single market, there are always cases where consumers are not sufficiently protected because of the information gap. i therefore consider the idea of the vulnerable consumer to be justified, because the consumer agenda must therefore also effectively address these important issues. in conclusion, i would like to thank rapporteur maría irigoyen pérez for the very good work she has done on this report.
the first item is a joint debate on the access of smes to the structural funds and on the definition of smes.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i think we agree in this house that ukraine is a country of strategic importance for us – its size, its geographical location, its educated people – so for all these and other reasons an association agreement has been concluded and initiated. i think we would like to see those who signed this agreement implement this agreement. however, there is a problem. it is not only yulia tymoshenko and mr lutsenko but, as has already been mentioned, we have to deal with serious deficiencies in ukraine’s legal system. partnership between the eu and ukraine should be based on the observation of human rights, the rule of law and, of course, the functioning of the entire legal system. our ukrainian partners attempted to make certain reforms. here i would like to mention the criminal procedure code which has been adopted. moreover, the venice commission of the council of europe participated in the preparation of this criminal procedure code – but we have to go further. the entire legal system of ukraine has to be reformed. again i would like to welcome the decision to establish a constitutional assembly which, again, will carry out its work with the experts from the venice commission and, i hope, also with the opposition in ukraine and with civil society. how to deal with yulia tymoshenko’s case? now the case will go before ukraine’s high specialised court. last week we heard a statement by president azarov, who invited us to send international legal experts. i think that is a first step towards dealing with this issue in such a way that the release of yulia tymoshenko is in accordance with both international law and ukrainian law. the case, of course, will perhaps go to this city, to strasbourg, to the european court of human rights. the ukrainian side promised – and i think we should insist on that – that the verdict and of course the implementation of the court’s judgment will be fully respected. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, the czech government gave political asylum to the former economic minister. as far as i know, there were reasons to give him asylum; but this is exactly what we are talking about here today: that in many cases we have the feeling – and not only the feeling – of selective political justice. this is why we are having this debate today and why we would like to see an improvement along the lines already mentioned, but also involving further reforms as far as the judicial system is concerned. on the social democrats and the party of regions: yes, it is true that, a year-and-a-half ago, a memorandum was signed where we expressed our will to help the ukrainian side to develop the party, society and political system in the ukraine in accordance with our values, as i mentioned: human rights, civil rights, rule of law, democracy. we therefore urge our colleagues in the party of regions to implement what they agreed to. this year will be decisive, both in the case of yulia tymoshenko and, of course, later on in october with the elections, in terms of whether they will be able to implement what they agreed to. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
the question posed by the blue card. mr president, i would like to ask my colleague rouček if he is aware of a certain inaccuracy, which is important when he talks about the czech government's decision to grant asylum. not the czech government, not a political body, but a foreign police force under the authority of the minister of the interior. does he know that?
answer the question by raising the blue card. of course it was the czech police. you mentioned the home secretary. the minister of the interior is a member of the czech government. the foreign police, but of course the czech government, had something to say about it.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, it seems that the same standard of measurement for all, including the highest statesmen, is not fashionable today. in the european union, we don't have a problem with corruption. only in exceptional cases, as was the case recently with french president chirac, will a former statesman be convicted. some eu states grant political asylum to fraudsters while trying to pressure neighbouring countries to grant special privileges to former top politicians, contrary to the principles of equal treatment. i'm not a big football fan, but i was unpleasantly surprised by the tendency to link the european football championship in ukraine with the conviction of former prime minister yulia tymoshenko. it's true that for years i've been trying to promote more young women in top politics. but that does not mean that i would approve of special treatment and conditions for privileged prisoners in a country with several million unemployed and homeless people. i'm not surprised by the attitude of right-wing politicians. they have long advocated that the debts incurred by the banks be paid by reducing social standards for the poorest, even at the cost of high unemployment and the dismantling of the welfare state. i would like to protest loudly against the fact that we, as the european parliament, export similar practices, including the impunity of the big fraudsters, to countries outside the european union. in the case of yulia tymoshenko and her associates, some of the proposals violate the principle of equal access to citizens. it is not possible to grant political asylum to the fraudsters we call oligarchs in eastern europe and, moreover, to discuss economic sanctions against those who seek to escape the worst manifestations of corrupt practices. i suggest we take a look at our own doorstep first. i would particularly recommend to colleagues from the so-called new countries of the european union that they inform us about the anti-corruption measures recently adopted in their countries. and only then will i be happy to hear their views on the situation in ukraine. not only football, but politics must finally start to respect the rules of fair play. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question posed by the blue card. i would like to know first of all on what basis mr kohlíček believes that political asylum was given to fraudsters, where he has evidence of this crime. and second, where he has evidence that political prisoners are being treated in an unusual way in terms of their treatment. i think the opposite is true.
answer the question by raising the blue card. i think the proof that there are super-standard ways is, for example, your visit to ukraine, a visit of a group of foreign doctors to ukraine. i've never heard of anything like this happening in other countries. and as for the fraudsters, i don't know how you explain to me that practically overnight, a whole group of people have billions of dollars in assets. is that legal? if it's legal, then something is wrong, but not with this government, but already with the previous government of ukraine. and not just in ukraine, but in other countries. and that's what the core of the poodle is.
mr president, of the euronest countries, ukraine is the country that has come the furthest on the road to joining the european union. she could be an example to others, but unfortunately she's not. he doesn't meet the political criteria. the whole democratic world is troubled by the selective application of the law to political opponents. the prosecutor is working on a political contract, the prison administration is grossly violating the rights of prisoners. yulia tymoshenko was convicted under paragraphs that are contrary to the standards of the european union and the un. despite the fact that, under immense pressure, the torture was stopped and she was given treatment, her rights continue to be violated. it's just the tip of the iceberg below which there's a proliferation of political power in the judiciary. last year, 400 disloyal judges were prosecuted. the aim is to intimidate the citizens, silence the opposition and reinstate one-party rule, apparently with the approval, perhaps even the help, of parts of the european left. i don't know what's worse, the legal misuse of prisoners' health information or the targeted, massive disinformation campaign by the prosecutor's office, the health department and the president. it's about the massive misuse of public power for political ends and the consolidation of power by pro-government oligarchs and the growth of corruption. colleagues, the independence of the autumn elections is already being questioned, and i am truly sorry about that. it's taking the beautiful country of ukraine and its citizens away from the european union. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i think that this is not the time to discuss the political orientation of ukraine, but the fact is that the way the prosecutor is conducting the process, even though he knows that it is against the standards of the european union, he knows that we are before the signing of the association agreement, clearly indicates a selective application of the law. the misinformation that the prosecutor mr. pshonka sends directly about the state of health, about other circumstances, is also a clear and flagrant case of violation of democracy in ukraine. but i very much welcome the fact that parliament and the government are ready to reform the judiciary. unfortunately, it is not possible to apply the reform retroactively to the tymochenko and lucenko cases.
answer the question by raising the blue card. as for paragraphs 365 and 364, they are indeed from the 1960s and it is of course a mistake that they were not corrected or that they were not changed. but you all know that reform, or a new criminal code, is something that has been in the works for 10 years. in the czech republic, it took 10 to 15 years to change the entire criminal code.
mr president, this report on the perspectives of women in turkey focuses on all the important aspects that are inextricably linked to human rights, which is why i supported it. despite the progress made in women's rights in turkey, violence against women remains a fundamental and still unresolved problem. statistics show that every day, two to three women are killed by a husband, a boyfriend, a family member, or an ex-husband. there is no way that human rights are being violated to this extent in turkey. honor killings, forced marriages, early marriages and domestic violence are areas where effective legislative measures to punish the perpetrators and protect the victims are still lacking. even if some types of violence are more associated with certain regions, we must constantly point out their existence publicly. we know from experience that implementing zero tolerance policies alone is not enough to achieve the objective. support from the general public and a change in mentality regarding the status of women is needed. this also includes promoting education at all levels and for all children without distinction, through which the basic norms of democracy and human rights would be introduced.
in writing. − i consider it necessary to ensure an effective and lasting integration of the internal and external dimensions of european security on issues relevant to cfsp activities and priorities, such as global disarmament, non-proliferation, chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear risks within and outside the eu, the fight against terrorism and radicalisation within and outside european borders, and cybersecurity. close, effective and cross-cutting links between services, authorities, regional and thematic sections, and between the relevant commission services and the eeas should be part of the coordination of the internal and external dimensions of the eu security strategy, in order to ensure efficiency and coherence with the cfsp. the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy (hr) should ensure coordination between the relevant commission services and the eeas, thereby avoiding unnecessary duplication of work and tasks, in particular in areas directly related to security issues within and outside the eu. in this context, i welcome the proposal for a framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020) entitled horizon 2020, which should involve civil and military capacities in tasks ranging from civil protection to humanitarian aid, border management or peacekeeping. the commission, the eeas and the member states should subsequently revise the planned pre-contracting process to strengthen the links between internal and external security and with key and coherent civil and military capacities.
in writing. although formally the treaty now contains the basis for new eu criminal law provisions, this does not make criminal law less sensitive. the treaty therefore provides for a 'rescue brake' procedure where a member state considers that the proposed legislation affects fundamental aspects of its criminal justice system. the treaty considers this procedure extraordinary. the eu's approach to criminal law should be based on the recognition that criminal law differs from other areas of law in that it inherently restricts certain human rights and fundamental freedoms of the accused or convicted person. in many cases, freedom of movement is restricted, but even if the offence is punishable only by a fine, the right to property is at least restricted. in addition, practical considerations should be taken into account. the influx of new eu initiatives in the area of substantive criminal law can easily overwhelm the administrative authorities of the member states. the nature of the proposals must be such that they can be fully implemented and enforced. the resources of the competent national authorities are limited, especially in the current economic crisis. the adoption of new legislation risks not resulting in better enforcement, thus undermining both the credibility and effectiveness of substantive eu criminal law.
in writing. despite existing legislation, consumers are still often faced with difficulties in travelling and are placed in a vulnerable position, in particular in cases where their transport service is cancelled or delayed, which may put consumers with disabilities at particular risk. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to take the necessary measures to improve the provision of information and to facilitate access to complaints procedures concerning, inter alia, passenger rights and transparency of charges. the commission should take into account the situation of vulnerable consumers, in particular persons with reduced mobility and persons with disabilities, in its planned revision of eu legislation on passenger rights, and adjust the level of compensation, its criteria and mechanisms without reducing the existing level. the process of digitalisation of services may mean that consumers who, for various reasons, do not have access to or use the internet may find themselves in a vulnerable position, as they cannot fully benefit from e-commerce and are therefore excluded from a substantial part of the internal market, as they pay more for the same products or are dependent on the help of others. the commission and the member states should therefore remove obstacles to cross-border e-commerce by developing an effective policy that pays particular attention to the needs of vulnerable consumers through measures aimed at closing the 'digital divide'.
in writing. − i am seriously concerned that the proposed way of protecting vulnerable consumers does not represent a functional model of consumer protection. in particular, because it is based on the preferential protection of a certain set of consumers. consumer protection should always be based on the principle of applying the principle of equal treatment to all consumer groups. moreover, the fact that the group of vulnerable consumers is a dynamically changing target group that is very difficult to grasp undermines the whole proposed philosophy of greater protection of vulnerable consumers. this underlines the impossibility of defining the group thus designated in legislation. this is not altered by the fact that the term 'vulnerable consumer' has already been used in the past in the directive on unfair commercial practices towards consumers in the internal market. however, it is based on unfair competition practices for which the economic interest can be clearly quantified, both in terms of profit and in terms of damage. if this concern is extended to health, safety or morality, it will be difficult to legislate and then impossible to implement.
in writing. i supported the internal market assessment report as it is a significant feedback on the ability of individual member states to adopt and implement internal market legislation. the internal market cannot function properly without the proper implementation of these rules. deficits in transposition mean more delays, creating a gap in the union legal framework and a greater fragmentation in its functioning. the objective and regular monitoring of progress in the adoption of legislation by member states obliges them to step up their transposition efforts. unfortunately, not everyone is able to follow the commission's plan. my country, the czech republic, is showing the weakest results despite some progress. i am therefore confident that 2012, the year in which we mark the 20th anniversary of the internal market, will bring an end to the delay in adopting legislation and show that we are serious about supporting the european internal market.
in writing. the internal market is a reliable and effective instrument for ensuring prosperity and economic growth and thus for reducing unemployment. although the internal market was to be achieved at the turn of the 1980s and 1990s, its completion is still in sight. european cooperation has progressed to the next stages of integration towards monetary and political union , but has not yet achieved a single internal market. for example, the services market is still two thirds off-limits. what also significantly slows down entrepreneurial activity, and thus economic growth, is excessive regulation. the existing eu acquis consists of more than 9 000 legislative acts. therefore, a radical purification of his body is necessary. it is good that the eu institutions have committed themselves to reducing the administrative burden on the smallest businesses, but it is necessary to go further. all legislative proposals and existing rules should be assessed in terms of regulatory burden. it is clear that our interest in achieving the internal market objectives would not be complete if we left aside the implementation of the measures taken. all existing legislation must therefore be consistently transposed, and an average implementation deficit of 1.2% cannot be considered acceptable. our clear priority must be not only to remove barriers but also to respect the rules of the union's internal market. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. − i believe that the citizens' initiative will be a powerful tool for european citizens to put their ideas on the union's agenda. it was introduced by the treaty of lisbon to give citizens the power to put forward political initiatives, which is already held by the council and the european parliament. the aim is to provide citizens with a means of expressing their views, enabling them to draw the attention of the european institutions to certain issues of interest to them. the european parliament will be able to contribute to this objective by using all the means at its disposal to support citizens' initiatives, in particular by organising public hearings. in this context, article 11 of the regulation on the citizens' initiative provides that organisers are given the opportunity to present a citizens' initiative at a public hearing. the regulation applies from 1 april 2012 and it is therefore appropriate to amend the rules of procedure of the european parliament in order to provide for the provisions necessary for the organisation and conduct of those hearings. i consider it paramount to establish a 'one-stop shop' to facilitate the exchange of views and dialogue with citizens, interest groups and civil society. this function should be performed by the vice-president responsible for citizens' initiatives, provided that he or she has the necessary administrative support.
in writing. active citizenship is the basis for the democratic development of the countries in which citizens live and, therefore, of the european union as a whole. the citizens' initiative is a powerful tool that will be available to european citizens to put forward issues that they feel need legislative action. the initiative was introduced by the treaty of lisbon with the aim of conferring on citizens the power of legislative initiative. this report is a step towards strengthening direct democracy and leads to better communication between the european union institutions and its citizens. in this way, eu citizens will be able to communicate directly the issues they consider important, and eu institutions will be able to respond to them directly and in different ways. i consider this direct link to be very important and that is why i supported the report.
mr president, i remember that half a year ago it was fiscal austerity which was the issue of the day. now it is growth of course, but unfortunately we will achieve neither fiscal discipline nor growth in the atmosphere of uncertainty and unpredictability that we now have. certainty and predictability: this is what we need most at the moment. unfortunately this unpredictability and uncertainty is mostly caused by the wrong perception of the situation by the eu institutions, by the commission and by parliament, by us. six months ago mr barroso told me in this house that greece would never leave the eurozone. now even some commissioners admit that this might happen and that plan b is necessary for greece. so what kind of assessment of the situation is that? it is just from one side to another. i think that our institutions unfortunately have lost the ability to reflect public mood in the european union because in hard times, as we have seen in france and in greece repeatedly, people are looking at voting for strong national leaders to give responses to their problems. they do not care about us, they do not care about the commission, they do not care about parliament, and because of what? because people are fed up with all that never-ending lunatic ideology of fiscal and political union that people like mr verhofstadt are still trying to sell, but no-one is buying. people do not buy it any more so please let us stop talking about this nonsense. let us be real. let us deliver something real to the people, something we can do. let us do our job. let us, for instance, complete the single market and let us admit that fiscal discipline growth is mostly in the hands of member states. let us not mix things together and interfere with someone else’s job, otherwise we cannot get anywhere.
the draftsman of the committee on development . - mr president, i have only two comments. first, china is often criticized in the european parliament for its human rights record, for what we call social and environmental dumping, for its violations of rights, especially intellectual property rights, and of course, where it deserves to be criticized, we criticize it. but we should be careful not to avoid correcting our own mistakes by criticising china, because - and this was already said here today in one of the previous debates - we can only have an equal relationship with china if we are a competitive european union in which economic growth is also ensured. that is the first thing and that is also where we have to work. the second thing is that china is no longer a developing country, it's a different country than it was even 10 years ago. it is an economic and political power with a very attractive and competitive market and we are also seeing major changes in the social structure of society. and after all, it's a continent in a way, it's not just any country, so we have to treat china as an equal partner. i think we can gain a lot from this partnership of equals.
mr president, our report calls on the european union and china to build economic relations on the basis of partnership and mutual benefit. i'll join you in that challenge. the establishment of a balance in mutual trade would lead to common development with mutual benefits. but despite significant progress, existing trade barriers still prevent economic cooperation from unlocking its potential. european companies have so far faced a number of tariff and non-tariff barriers which have made access to chinese markets more difficult. in particular, smes do not have the capacity to cope with bureaucratic certification requirements or to participate in public procurement. european consumers, on the other hand, are concerned about the safety of chinese products entering the european common market. it is also necessary to strengthen cooperation with the chinese authorities in the field of health protection. let us therefore take this opportunity to address our concerns to china about the artificial barriers to trade and the non-transparent environment. only through mutual cooperation and a coordinated approach can europe and china move towards building an equal and balanced partnership.
for the ecr group. mr president, the position of the group of european conservatives and reformists in today's vote on the financial transaction tax remains unchanged and we reject this concept in principle. there are a number of important reasons why we reject this matter, and let me just mention a few of them at this point. first, european statesmen have long talked about increasing europe's competitiveness and boosting growth. there is not a single example in economic history that any tax increase is a stimulus to growth and a boost to competitiveness. secondly, some of you have said this, but it was explicitly stated by mr engel on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and i think that is part of the truth of that statement. the financial transaction tax (ftt) is seen as part of a long-term attempt to find new sources of finance at european level. this is fundamentally unacceptable to us, because we believe that the european budget is too fat and needs a fundamental diet. we need to save on the spending side of the budget, not look for new sources. third, economists have recently been correct in thinking that banks need more capital and liquidity. so what logic is he using to divert funds from the sector? the commission notes that the dft regime is not intended to be a replacement for the dft regime. fourth, imposing dfts on equities and derivatives trades will not contribute to the stability of the financial sector, as the vast majority of you believe. on the contrary, there will be an increase in volatility. because the new tax will force merchants to focus on other, less common, and so far untaxed financial transactions. and fifth, if approved, the financial transaction tax will contribute to a slowdown in growth in the european area, a shortage of capital in the market, which will limit the investments that today's industry and economy so desperately need. (the president agreed to answer two questions by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question by raising the blue card. mr. engel, i'll start from the end. of course it's true. i mean, you know, of course, we believe that the member states, if they are members of this community, should contribute to the european budget by mutual agreement. we consider it to be long-term wrong and almost fatal to the democratic process in the european area for member states to be overrun by a kind of transnational budget without proper democratic control by the individual member states. so that's point number one. and secondly, we are deeply convinced that the european budget - and this is not the debate today - should be subjected to a major reduction diet, because there are a number of items that need to be cut and that taxpayers should not be put in their pockets.
answer the question by raising the blue card. mr. liberadzki, i can't tell you exactly which and that's probably the point of your question precisely defined parts should be cut. but let's start the debate very simply in this room. what if we eliminated two jobs in parliament, did just one, and saved the taxpayers a very significant amount of money?
i repeat, the blue card has already been raised 10 questions, we are very late. you specifically had or will now have the floor. i'm very sorry, but i want to give the floor to all the speakers, otherwise we're not able to keep the program.
colleagues, i would like to make a small announcement. i would like to welcome members from the mexican parliament and senate who are sitting in our gallery. i would like to wish them a pleasant stay in brussels and strasbourg. (applause)
we now continue with the debate on the report by anni podimata on a common system for taxing financial transactions.
colleagues, we will make a small change to the programme as minister vestager has to leave shortly. i shall therefore now give the council the floor before catch-the-eye.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by david martin, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament on the detailed provisions governing the exercise of the european parliament’s right of inquiry and repealing decision 95/167/ec, euratom, ecsc of the european parliament, the council and the commission (2009/2212(ini)) (a7-0352/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly.
mr president, it is clear why the european union is trying to overcome the current situation where 85% of its revenue comes from the member states. but i do not think that taxing financial transactions is the right system to ensure the union's own resources. the main focus should be on savings on the expenditure side of the budget, as our group points out in its annual discharge debate. in my view, the financial transaction tax will make banking services more expensive and will cause european citizens to become hostile to the european union and to turn to financial transactions which are not yet taxed. and as a result, it will start to trade heavily outside the european union. i also believe that tax rates should not be identical throughout the european union, but that it should be up to the member states to set them. for these reasons in particular, i could not support the report and voted against it.
in writing. − i do not reject the idea of a financial transaction tax per se, but i do consider the way it is implemented to be harmful. the main problem i see is that the financial transaction tax will be limited to the eu territory and will not have a global dimension. capital will thus have an opportunity to escape and will undoubtedly take advantage of this opportunity. i understand that some european politicians are nervous about the financial volleyball over their heads, but the solution is not to introduce a european tax that will be easy to evade. capital is simply acting like a timid deer, and when it smells of tax danger, it will go elsewhere. the expected financial transaction tax revenues of eur 55 billion are therefore considered to be a chimera. the introduction of this tax would only make sense if it were a worldwide tax. if the eu is left on its own, it will undermine its competitiveness at a time when it is in desperate need of economic recovery.
in writing. − i would point out that intellectual property rights are not sufficiently protected in china and that european businesses, especially smes, lack the concrete means to effectively combat intellectual property rights infringements. in this context, i welcome the commission's decision to propose a revision of the intellectual property rights enforcement directive and call on it to better protect intellectual property rights in all multilateral organisations of which china is a member, such as the world trade organisation (wto), the world health organisation (who) and the world intellectual property organisation (wipo). within the eu, customs cooperation with third countries, in particular china, on the seizure of counterfeit goods needs to be intensified and customs procedures simplified. the commission and the member states should cooperate more closely with third countries on copyright and licensing issues.
in writing. the right of inquiry is an important element of the european parliament's supervisory powers. the european parliament is not a court. hence, he does not have the authority to inflict punishment on individuals. however, under the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament has the right to investigate allegations of breach of union law or maladministration in its application. the purpose of the establishment of a commission of inquiry is to ensure that an illegal or unfair situation is rectified. the investigation should therefore lead to findings which should ensure the most appropriate solution. the final decision-making power irrespective of the powers conferred on committees of inquiry in the performance of their tasks ultimately belongs to parliament. the conclusions of the committees of inquiry could therefore be presented to parliament in the form of a final report. it would then be for parliament to follow one or more of the recommendations contained in the final report and decide, for example, whether to make the report public, to submit a legislative initiative, to refer the matter to the competent union or national authorities or to the ombudsman, or to take other appropriate action depending on the specific circumstances.
for the ecr group. mr president, allow me to thank my colleague mr gerbrandy for his report. conserving resources and using them efficiently is surely the goal of all of us. but there are a number of points in the report which i find very difficult to accept, and i am not afraid to say i find them unacceptable. the report calls for additional taxation at european level, for the introduction of double taxation, and even for environmental and natural resources taxes. i consider this to be very unfortunate, at least for europe, in a time of prolonged economic crisis. the extension of the ecodesign directive, i fear, will also lead to more bureaucracy than it will bring to europe and its citizens. and the other details that i would like to mention, i think are very commendable parts that talk about boosting recycling, boosting composting. i am sure we are all in favour of europe abandoning landfilling, and i very much agree with that and support the proposal. i would ask everyone to agree to omit the mention of stopping the incineration of waste, because that would be rather counterproductive in this situation. for the reasons stated above, i will not be able to support this report personally.
the increasing global demand is increasing pressure on the environment and further stimulating competition for resources. key natural resources such as raw materials, metals, energy, biodiversity and water are used to fuel economic growth as if they were inexhaustible. this is not sustainable in the long term and the eu is likely to face significant challenges in ensuring access to and continuity of supply of key resources. the european union imports more fuel than china and more minerals than the united states. biodiversity or energy efficiency targets are not being met. reducing dependence on imported resources and using domestic resources efficiently must therefore be a clear policy priority, not only with regard to the environment, but also with regard to competitiveness and the creation of growth and jobs. the current economic, financial and environmental situation only confirms that europe urgently needs new sources of economic growth. i would therefore like to appeal again to the member states of the european union not to reject binding energy efficiency targets. mandatory austerity is a great opportunity to restart the eu economy. i also support extending the scope of the ecodesign directive to products which are not linked to energy consumption, to measures to reduce food waste or to the abolition of all subsidies which have a negative impact on the environment.
for the ecr group. madam president, there is certainly no one in this chamber or in our countries who does not support the employment of young people, who does not doubt that it is wrong for a young person who is ready to work to be unemployed. what we may not agree on is the ways to solve this problem. i'm afraid declarations, programmes and initiatives are not enough. we must take decisive action and find real solutions. i therefore ask the commissioner: will the european commission propose further liberalisation and the removal of legal and administrative barriers to labour mobility in the european union? is the commission prepared to support deregulation and more flexibility in labour relations? is the commission working on modernising eures? will the commission support the reform of education systems to balance supply and demand in labour markets?
for the ecr group. madam president, we must also promote the principle of equality between men and women in the labour market. according to the latest statistics, the gender pay gap is on average 16.4%, but it cannot be said that men generally earn more than women. it's a very complex subject, and there are many causes and reasons that lead to it. the report by mrs bauer has sent a very good signal in this direction. the multilateral and multi-level approach of the member states is important in this respect. while legislative change can be an important part of this, practice shows that this step alone is not enough. we also need to raise awareness and change, for example, the mindset that is entrenched in our consciousness about reward itself. i welcome, for example, the existence of pilot projects, which are good tools for creating better transparency and monitoring. it is true that without reliable statistics it is not possible to tackle this problem properly. we need statistics and we need to evaluate the differences by industry and other various factors. we also have to take into account, for example, the management of individual companies. to impose sanctions on companies that are not doing well economically is counterproductive in my view. similarly, it is not possible to impose sanctions on businesses until we have clear rules for measuring and comparing equal and equivalent work. i see good will in developing such tools that will objectively evaluate work and make it so comparable, but is it really possible to find such tools? i'm a little skeptical at this point, and i find it very difficult. table ratings by pay grade can be applied in the public sector, but they are difficult to dictate to private firms. companies also take into account the individual contribution of individual employees when setting the level of pay and remuneration. we cannot ignore the individual skills and equipment of each employee, which cannot be measured objectively, but which currently play a significant role in the selection of a candidate and his salary. perhaps we should focus more on those aspects that create equal working conditions and conditions for women. i would argue that one of the main problems and causes of the pay gap is the interruption of women's careers or the reduction of their own working hours due to the reconciliation of family life and childcare, or work life and childcare. i am therefore pleased that this issue has become a major debate, because it allows us to highlight other pressing issues and their aspects. i thank the rapporteur for her efforts and all the colleagues for their contributions. i look forward to hearing the commission's assessment.
in writing. women are still paid less than men for the same work and the same qualifications, regardless of their education. the eu average is around 17.5%. in the czech republic, the situation is even worse, with women receiving 19% less pay than men in 2010, according to the csa. the largest differences were found among high school students without a high school diploma and those with a master's degree or higher, where women earned up to 27.5% less than men. equal pay for equal work was enshrined in the treaties as early as 1957. i welcome the fact that parliament is aware that 60 years after the enactment of this legislation, the problem still needs to be addressed. there are still stereotypes about so-called male and female professions. solutions are already being offered in primary schools, where work should be done to eliminate prejudice, to encourage children's talent, regardless of gender. for example, girls should be more motivated to take up technical professions and boys to take up social service work. i am not in favour of women being miners at all costs or men being nannies, but i do not accept that there should be any difference in average pay in professions which can be equally well performed by both sexes, and these are the vast majority.
for the s&d group. mr president, the economic crisis, the rising unemployment and the uncertainty of the people: in this environment, prejudice and guilt are very much alive. they're looking for people to take jobs, they're looking for easy solutions. the websites targeting citizens from central and eastern europe and the topic we are discussing today are unfortunately two sides of the same coin. the residence quotas that the swiss government has introduced since may selectively for european union citizens from the eight new member states are contrary to the fundamental european idea of free movement of persons and labour. i consider the different approach based on nationality to be fundamentally unacceptable and totally discriminatory, notwithstanding the fact that the employees of the so-called group of eight represent only a fraction of the foreign workforce in switzerland. i therefore consider it necessary to call on the swiss authorities to reconsider their decision and to abolish these discriminatory residence quotas. i believe that rational arguments will eventually prevail in the negotiations, and i thank the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, mrs ashton, for taking the first step in this direction.
in writing. − the ukrainian authorities must guarantee the impartiality of the trial in the case of ms tymochenko and must end the use of selective justice targeting political and other opponents. i am suspicious that the supreme specialized court of ukraine for criminal and civil matters has postponed its decision on the appeal in the case of ms. tymoshenko against the decision of the pechersk district court in kiev. in this context, caution should be exercised against the length of the ordinary judicial procedure. the ukrainian authorities must guarantee full respect for the rights of all political prisoners, including ms tymochenko, mr luchenko and mr ivaschenko, including the right to receive necessary medical care in appropriate facilities and the right to unrestricted access to their legal representatives and the right to visit relatives and other persons such as the eu envoy. it is necessary for ukraine to fully respect the fundamental rights of accused and detained persons, including the right to medical care, in accordance with international standards. i condemn the use of force by prison guards against yulia tymoshenko and recall ukraine's commitment to promptly and impartially investigate any complaint of torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment.
in writing. the roadmap for a more resource-efficient europe provides an analysis and outlines the first steps towards this new agenda. but it does not express the urgency needed. the european commission is giving the right direction but is not sufficiently specific about the steps to be taken. the main challenges in my view are to strengthen cooperation with the public and private sectors, to improve the use of secondary raw materials in europe and to create the right incentives to prevent excess waste and contribute to its reuse, and to put resource efficiency and sustainability at the top of the innovation agenda at both european and national level. this is not just a european agenda. the new agenda for future growth should also be adopted at national, regional and local level. the eurobarometer survey shows the willingness of european citizens to play an active role in this agenda. this is possible through more sustainable consumption, waste minimisation, improved collection and sorting of waste. more efficient use of resources does not have to be based on a top-down approach alone, but can be promoted in both directions. in particular, local politicians play a crucial role in engaging citizens.
in writing. the application of the principle of equal pay for equal or equivalent work for men and women is essential to achieve equality between them. currently, women in the european union are paid 16.4% less than men for the same work, and in the czech republic up to 25% less. that is why i have supported the rapporteur's proposal. the current version of directive 2006/54/ec is, in my view, wholly inadequate in this respect and has not substantially changed the legislation on the elimination of pay disparities. we therefore call for the european commission to submit amendments as soon as possible, which will primarily concern the analysis of the current situation with regard to the evaluation and classification of work, the strengthening of social dialogue and the introduction of sanctions for infringements of this principle.
in writing. - i object to the decision of the swiss authorities to re-introduce quotas for the issuing of residence permits to eu citizens who are nationals of the eight member states which joined the eu in 2004, including the czech republic, thus restricting the free movement of persons established by the 1999 eu agreement. i consider this decision to be discriminatory and unlawful, as there is no legal basis for such a distinction of persons in the current agreements concluded between switzerland and the eu. i therefore call on the swiss authorities to review their decision and to waive the safeguard clause. in this context, i ask the commission to indicate what steps it has taken since the adoption of the ep resolution of 7 september 2010 to address the problems of accompanying measures that make it difficult for eu smes to provide services in switzerland and to convince the swiss authorities that the rules requiring foreign companies providing cross-border services to provide a guarantee of financial integrity should be abolished.
for the s&d group. madam president, i will be speaking alongside my colleague róża thun und hohenstein, whom i would also like to thank for her cooperation on a subject which, in my view, touches on the essence of what we call the democratic deficit of the european union. it is nothing less than a means of communication between the european institutions and european citizens and their involvement in european decision-making and policy-making. there are certainly positive steps, such as the european citizens' initiative. but when we talk about public consultation as a way of involving ordinary citizens, smaller non-profit organisations or public administrations, the european commission's efforts are really insufficient and formal, if we want the voices of ordinary citizens, not just large organised interest groups. public consultations are normally published mainly in english only, are too complicated and, above all, most citizens are not aware of the possibility of commenting on emerging legislation. is it really enough to post a technical document of dozens of pages on the commission's website for a few weeks and then, after a certain period of time, consider the objective of citizen involvement, the essential element of direct democracy in the eu, to have been achieved? i'm convinced that's not the case. and the easy-to-find numbers prove me right. the single market act is considered one of the most important documents for the future of the single market. during the four-month consultation period, the commission reported that a total of 248 citizens from across the eu had commented on the proposal in public consultations. and the result of this consultation? dialogue with civil society was the category identified by citizens as the most important of the 50 priority actions presented by the commission. this is natural, because it is the citizens who are directly affected by the resulting legislation. the call for better communication was also echoed at last year's single market forum in krakow, where the public was able to take an active part in the debate on the future of the single market. and what is the situation today, june 11, 2012? to date, the commission has offered 23 public consultations. you could say that their only common denominator is english. other criteria differ. some can be completed by questionnaire, others require the citizen to write his comments in an e-mail. the scope of the accompanying documents, again entirely in english, the length of time for which the consultations are open, their graphic form, etc. vary. i am convinced that by making the public consultation available in all the official languages, by improving its accessibility and comprehensibility and by harmonising its rules, we will achieve the increased and appropriate participation that i believe the consultation deserves. i see this as a step not only to increase the transparency of the decision-making process, but also as a way to strengthen the fundamental civil rights of the union. and by the way, it would also be a nice gift from the commission for the upcoming european year of citizens.
i do not in any way question the value of consultation. the question is how effective is it to translate all consultations and what makes sense to translate. interestingly, 27 public consultations are currently open. they cover a wide range of subjects, such as the transparency register or the application of antitrust rules on restrictive business practices in maritime transport, which affect ordinary people only marginally. the commission's main consultation page is available in all languages, and follow-up practical information on where and when to send an opinion is usually only available in english. the paradox is that in some cases the consultation texts themselves are in all languages. in other words, the union often translates technical texts of 10 pages, but is not able to translate one page of instructions. the question is also whether we are asking the right question in the context of the public consultation. is it crucial that the consultation document is translated into all the official languages and posted on the website as an alibi, or do we really want to hear from the stakeholders what they think about the proposal? is the key to our work the opinion of one farmer based on ad hoc personal experience or rather the carefully considered opinion of the national agricultural chamber? do we have the resources and time to translate all communications into all languages, or is it more efficient to open discussions on the key issues in each country and collect relevant responses through the commission and parliament information offices? i am convinced that if we are really interested in the opinions of those who are affected by european policy, and are not talking about a simple opinion poll, we should be more actively reaching out to the interested partners, their national and european associations. basic information should be available in all languages, while technical issues addressed to the professional public should only be published in one language. that's my opinion. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i am in no way questioning the principle of consultation. i believe that we need to communicate with the person who addresses the european institutions in his or her native language. but it's useless, if it's a technical question, i.e. a question of a qualified worker or scientist, to translate these things into other languages. it's a professional matter and we can save on professional translation and consultation or translation in only one language, or three languages. it's useless to translate it into all languages.
mr president, volunteering is the spice of a functioning european society. for some areas, such as social and health services, firefighting, youth recreation and so on, the network of volunteers is an indispensable part of the system. one in five eu citizens volunteers in charitable activities and our task is to facilitate the possibility of cross-border volunteering. it will also help to break down the surviving historical barriers. i share the rapporteur's view that a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps should be set up and that we should find a way to facilitate the mobility of volunteers. the european knowledge passport is a good solution for this journey. for selected sectors, the adaptation of administrative authorisations for third-country nationals to facilitate the exercise of voluntary activities is also a solution. it'll help the exchange of know-how. legal remedies will also be key to prevent this institution from being misused for illegal migration. therefore, at this stage, i do not support the abolition of the visa requirement for these cases.
mr president, computer technology is the backbone of our society, but it also makes it vulnerable in new areas. cybersecurity today requires coordinated action and a global approach. i believe that there is a need to strengthen europol's powers and to also have defence against cyber attacks embedded in eu and national internal and external security strategies. like my colleagues, i also have reservations about the functioning of the european agency enisa. europe has the highest standards of data protection in the world and we will further modernise them this year to reduce the potential for online identity theft, but the weakness remains the cooperation between security forces and other authorities responsible for general information security. estonia, on the other hand, is a good example. it's been through a massive cyber attack and has built a very solid institutional framework. unfortunately, large reserves can also be found in the european financial sector. i am glad that the commission is aware of this and will invest a lot of money in this as part of the digital agenda.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs herczog for her excellent report. energy security is a key strategic area for europe in the 21st century. member states should not be dependent on a single supplier, as this could be abused by third countries. this was demonstrated in practice in 2009, when during the czech presidency, some countries became hostages of the russia-ukraine dispute. the long-term answer is to create a genuine internal energy market. but this market should bring stability. at present, fluctuations in the production of energy from renewable sources, especially from wind power plants on the eastern borders of germany, cause significant problems for the transmission system in the czech republic and thus threaten the stability of supply in the czech republic and for customers in austria. i therefore take this opportunity to appeal to the commission and to my german colleagues to press for the speedy completion of a strong transmission system in germany. this state of permanent threat of blackout also does not create favourable conditions for negotiations on deepening the single energy market. i personally support expanding the range of suppliers and, at the same time, the sources of energy. but we also need to deal with third countries in the union's immediate neighbourhood to prevent the construction of low-quality power plants that undermine the stability of our own energy system through power fluctuations.
in writing. the decision of the member states' interior ministers to change the legal basis for the creation of the new schengen evaluation mechanism from article 77 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to article 70, i.e. from the european parliament's codecision, as originally proposed by the commission, to a mere consultation, is absolutely unacceptable. ministers want to decide on the restriction of one of the building blocks of the european union, one of the eu's fundamental rights the right to free movement rather in the form of opaque intergovernmental agreements without the participation and democratic control of the european parliament. this opens the door to unilateral activities and closes the door to european monitoring, in the interests of protecting labour mobility. the governments of the member states have once again shown that they do not respect the only democratic institution in the european union. in the past years, i have repeatedly called on the european commission to intervene in connection with the senseless, discriminatory and, above all, the schengen code-breaking checks at the czech-german border. the commission finally started to address this problem effectively. so now all european citizens are being beaten to the back of the head by their own governments, who would lock them up in the old administrative borders whenever they want. such re-establishment of borders is a way back for both our freedom and our economy and further development. i trust that the european parliament will find a way to prevent this, and i am personally very curious to hear what the european court of justice has to say about this approach by the ministers.
in writing. - i voted against this report mainly because i consider some of the commission's planned activities to be unnecessary and too costly. some of the proposals for disclosure of information on the european globalisation adjustment fund are in my view ineffective, too costly and insufficiently substantiated. clear data on the impact and effectiveness of the information tools financed by the technical assistance appropriations in previous years were not provided. i therefore believe that there is no evidence to assess whether and to what extent efforts should be made to improve the general awareness and visibility of the european globalisation adjustment fund. in particular, i consider that the added value of the filming and distribution of a promotional video based on several cases which have recently been implemented or completed is low in relation to the resources that will be required to implement it.
in writing. i see volunteering as a source of informal learning and personal development. in particular, cross-border volunteering is an opportunity for intercultural enrichment for young europeans. major sporting events involve an increasing number of european countries in the joint organisation of events and thousands of volunteers from different member states. unfortunately, the need for volunteering also arises in the case of natural and environmental disasters that affect europe and often have consequences in several member states at the same time. volunteers offer their help, manpower and solidarity, but in addition to the difficulties caused by the disaster, they also face challenges due to language and bureaucratic barriers, which can be reduced by appropriate european support policies. there is still a need to distinguish clearly and unequivocally between the value of voluntary unpaid work and profit-making activities, and a fundamental need to emphasise the role of voluntary work in promoting the principles of identity and common european values such as solidarity and social cohesion, both within and outside the eu. after the european year of volunteering has given volunteering visibility, a number of concrete actions to promote volunteering need to be focused, such as the idea of establishing a central eu portal dedicated to volunteering with a dedicated section dedicated to cross-border volunteering, the creation of a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps and a european knowledge passport.
in writing. the european year of volunteering 2011 contributed to the evaluation of volunteering as an expression of active citizenship that should receive maximum support both from organisations and institutions in the member states and from the european union. i support the idea of cross-border cooperation in voluntary activities. this is the only way to transfer experiences, different values and new ideas in the field of active citizenship. international cooperation in volunteering should be intensified and the free movement of volunteers between european countries should be allowed. this would also improve cooperation in cases of natural disasters or international youth meetings, for example. cross-border cooperation will contribute to the exchange of active citizens from different european union countries and will support the acquisition of skills abroad, leading to a stronger identity of individual volunteers as members of european civil society. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report on crossborder volunteering in the eu.
in writing. with the increasing use of the internet and computer technologies, internet security is now one of the top political priorities for the european union and the rest of the world. the europe 2020 strategy launched in 2010 has integrated the eu digital agenda among its core policies and set ambitious targets for the technological development of the european union. the increasing use and spread of innovative ict such as fast and superfast fixed and mobile internet and cellular networks, smart grids, but also internet services such as cloud computing and the internet of things, depends entirely on one simple but crucial aspect security, resilience and trust. developments to date show that the issue of internet security is significant. it is clear that the internet is a critical infrastructure and that disruption of the internet can lead to significant losses and security risks affecting a large number of european citizens and businesses. moreover, the rapid development of technologies requires that the prevention, remediation and resilience of cyber-attacks on the global network be based on a comprehensive, responsive, flexible, innovative and long-term framework. this framework must ensure effective interaction between governments, businesses, individuals and all other stakeholders. finally, increased resilience of the internet is only possible if an effective system of international cooperation and international standards is in place.
in writing. europe is the main consumer of energy in global energy markets. ensuring reliable and cost-competitive access to global energy supplies is key to supporting european competitiveness and security, given the existing policy objectives of the european union set out in the 20-20-20 package and the long-term commitment to decarbonise our economy by 2050. only a coherent and coordinated approach by the member states, the commission and the council will effectively support the european union's energy objectives in its external relations and result in an improved bargaining position vis-à-vis third countries. i attach great importance to research, development and innovation. within the eu, pooling our research efforts can deliver quality research that is more effective, cost-effective and dynamic than if it were carried out by each member state alone. similarly, we should focus on closer cooperation with third countries in research, development and innovation to maximise these benefits internationally.
mr president, the military presence of allied forces is coming to an end, and i think that is right, because it is time for the afghan people and the afghan leaders to run their own country. the afghans should have ownership of their country, but of course we should not repeat the mistake made after the end of soviet intervention to leave afghanistan and to leave the afghan people to their own destiny. we should be helping: we should be helping with international aid; we should be helping with the training of the police and continuing to help the afghans prepare to run their country. we should also have an alternative strategy as far as the economy is concerned. we talk a lot about the narcotics trade, but have we developed an alternative over the last 10 years? afghanistan is potentially not a poor country: afghanistan is a country rich in mineral resources, in natural resources. so, for instance, i would like to see more involvement on the part of our countries, of the member states, with regard to exploiting afghanistan’s natural resources. if the chinese can be involved there, then why not us? on combating narcotics trafficking, we should cooperate with our allies and with afghanistan’s neighbours. the arlacchi report mentioned russia. i do not think we did enough where cooperation with russia was concerned. i would also propose that we cooperate more intensively than we do now with iran, because the iranian police forces and young people in iran are paying a very heavy price for the narcotics trade. through this approach we could also develop in a closer, more confident way with iran. in other words, our presence is over, but we should not just leave afghanistan to its own destiny; we should be helping.
mr president, it is a very sad feeling to sit in a body whose majority has lost its sense of reality as much as the european parliament has. and besides, the majority still thinks they represent the european citizens. what mr verhofstadt is saying here, what mr cohn-bendit is saying here, are unfortunately not lonely cries, and this conviction is apparently shared by the majority of the european parliament. here, in fact, the majority believes that it is possible to build some kind of unified centralized federal state instead of the european union. and the demands for the introduction of own resources from the european budget are unfortunately part of the argumentation of this federalist current. the own resources of the european budget will of course allow the european parliament and the european commission to inflate the budget. it weakens the link between the member states, the cornerstones of european integration, and the european level. and it will allow the european commission and the european parliament to continue to visit member states. that is why this principle is unacceptable. i hope that the european council and those governments which have not yet lost their common sense will say a clear and decisive no to this plan.
the new multiannual financial framework (mff) is an instrument that should be used from 2014 and last for 7 years. the budget is estimated at approximately eur 1000 billion. the new mff has a number of welcome changes compared to the mff 2007 to 2013. it is pro-growth oriented and aims to support the european economy. the financial instruments under the new mff may also support additional co-financing from private and public investors. i very much welcome the new mff's focus on growth, development and environmental sustainability. the creation of new green jobs is also important. i also welcome the preservation of the european funds, in particular the social fund and the cohesion fund, which contribute not only to the strategic and long-term development of the member states but also to short-term, rapid and targeted support for dealing with the consequences of the crisis. i am convinced that, when the financial instruments are set in the right way, the mff 2014-2020 will contribute to the responsible growth of the european union economy.
in writing. the gsp is primarily a development tool and in this respect i think it is right that the new gsp scheme proposed by the commission no longer applies to high-income countries or to upper-middle-income countries. the regime therefore excludes most latin american countries and countries such as algeria, south africa, gabon, namibia and most of the caribbean islands. at the same time, however, even economies as strong as india, china, indonesia and thailand will continue to benefit from the gsp, albeit temporarily. it therefore seems unfair to me that the only criterion for eligibility for the gsp is the per capita gross domestic product, which harms small countries, despite the high levels of poverty they may face. in my view, therefore, the commission should consider introducing a combination of several indicators and criteria. i also believe that the commission should clearly define the stakeholders to be provided with further information on the control mechanisms, introduce a transparent benchmarking system and develop an impact analysis on human rights and their protection, and better take into account the specific role of the eu delegations.
in writing. i support in principle the commission's proposal that a member state whose currency is the euro must be subject to enhanced surveillance if it is experiencing or is threatened with serious financial difficulties. it is appropriate to ensure the speedy return of such a state to normalcy and to protect other euro area member states from possible negative impacts. however, the decision-making procedure should be adapted. in view of the possibility of rapid reaction, the commission should take the necessary decisions, including the imposition of enhanced surveillance on the member state concerned. the council should have the possibility to reject that decision by a simple majority within 10 days. i also support the proposal to create a legal protection regime for a member state at risk of soon becoming permanently insolvent. the commission should be able to decide, after consulting the council, to impose this type of legal protection, which also includes the suspension of contractual clauses relating to maturity or credit events, on the member state concerned.
in writing. −i am not a big supporter of the introduction of the obligation for member states to report in advance to the european commission and the eurogroup on their plans to issue sovereign bonds. the proposal adopted would harmonise and define the reporting in terms of form and content by the commission in cooperation with the member states, but the commission would have the lead role and the final say. in my view, this measure would constitute a substantial interference with national powers in the budgetary field. this would be a definitive step towards a budgetary union, which would be a qualitative change of such a magnitude that i believe the treaties would have to be amended. in any event, i have doubts whether the commission is the right body to oversee the issuance of government bonds. where this procedure is introduced, the supervisory function should be entrusted to a body that provides guarantees of independence and unquestionable competence.
the debate is over.
the next item on the agenda is the commission's statement on the future of the single market act.
i strongly welcome the call to strengthen the single market. but i think that it has to be a balanced approach to reinforcement. the single market cannot be assessed in isolation from other policy areas, in particular the social field, consumer protection or labour law issues. we want a fair internal market that benefits not only european businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones, but above all the core of the market, the citizens themselves. we often hear that it is necessary to involve citizens more in the development of the single market. how can this be done effectively? the key role, in my view, is played by an effective information process. it starts with public consultations when legislation is being prepared. it is necessary to make the consultation available in all official languages and to improve its accessibility and comprehensibility. the whole process continues through the maximum information of consumers in the choice of goods and services, when they must be sure that the legal framework does not allow the existence of second-class consumers. last but not least, consumers must be informed of their rights when they are being enforced, for example through a functioning adr system. finally, i join the call for the rules to be transposed consistently. insufficient and late transposition into national law and enforcement prevents the full benefits of the single market. not everyone is very good at transposition. my country, the czech republic, is the worst of all, despite some progress.
in writing. the report on foods for infants and young children and on foods for special medical purposes aims to revise and clarify the legislation on these foods on the european market. currently, on the basis of current regulations, it is generally impossible to distinguish in shops between food for general consumption and food for young children, for diabetics or other dieters or for elite athletes. milk products labelled 'for babies' have much more sugar than other similar products and sweetened fruit drinks 'for babies' contain a lot of colours, artificial sweeteners and preservatives. since the product is only an advertising print and the 'for children' label has no binding european legislative framework, manufacturers may deceive consumers with clever advertising. the eu must legislate to force manufacturers to supply food free of pesticides and other toxic substances. especially are infants, young children, the elderly, and diabetics at risk from even small amounts of toxins or chemicals in food. other consumers should also be able to make informed choices about healthier food. food must have on its packaging visible and truthful information on its composition. the labelling 'without added glutamate' or 'without added preservatives' does not indicate the amount and content of unhealthy substances in the food. regular compliance checks are to be an essential part of this.
in writing. i was surprised to read that the european parliament agrees with the view included in the commission's explanatory report that people with diabetes should eat the healthiest possible diet and that there is no scientific basis for setting specific food requirements for them. as someone who knows a little about things, i almost fell over after reading this message. i find it just as nonsensical as other formulations concerning other diets which exclude certain types of substances in foods suitable for people who have to follow these diets. in my view, therefore, the regulation does not meet the essential requirements which persons with special needs should expect from such legislative acts. it's good that there are specific foods for infants and young children. it is also correct to speak of those who follow the so-called gluten-free diet. but i cannot accept that other groups of the population, which have very strict restrictions on certain ingredients in food, are excluded from the regulation. i hope the member states will respond accordingly.
in writing. − i support the commission in improving the level and quality of information and public participation in decision-making. the public must be well informed and have immediate access to information relevant to the decision-making and the accident procedure. i agree with the proposal adopted to require a simple explanation of the issue of dangerous substances on the internet and to indicate when the plant in question was inspected. more detailed and more expert information on hazardous substances and controls should be made available at least on request. member states may then decide whether they consider it appropriate to publish more detailed and more specific information also on the internet. i agree with the requirements to strengthen the controls and align them with the frequency of the controls under the industrial emissions directive, where the time between two on-site inspections must not be longer than one year for the highest risk installations and longer than three years for the lowest risk installations. the coordination or linking of these two types of controls would reduce the administrative burden associated with the preparation and presence of inspectors and follow-up. i therefore call on the member states to support this coordination. the proposed control provisions contribute to better implementation, thus increasing the level of protection and ensuring a greater level playing field.
in writing. this proposal by the european commission is in fact a slightly revised version of the original directive 96/82/ec. it is good that, in particular for use in town and country planning and for possible use in an integrated rescue system, we have a directive which unifies, in accordance with the regulation on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures (clp regulation), the way in which the information needed to deal with industrial accidents involving dangerous substances is obtained and mapped. the order of parts 1 and 2 of annex i has been changed from the original directive. the first part lists the categories of dangerous substances and the second part lists the dangerous substances or groups of dangerous substances. the terminology has been changed, and today the toxic substances are divided into four groups. the scope of the directive is limited by exceptions on the one hand and by the inclusion of certain new substances on the other. the exception is the activity of extractive industrial plants, including gas storage. following the oil rig accidents, oil and gas production platforms are excluded from the scope of the directive and the commission is tasked with assessing the state of the regulations that apply to them. all listed plants must have a major accident prevention policy in writing, updated every five years, and reporting obligations to the competent authority. i believe that the directive is a step forward in this area and will help to further increase the safety of the handling of dangerous substances. that's why we supported it.
in writing. − while i support the seveso iii proposal, and in particular the stricter assessment of possible risks, the more thorough preparation of emergency plans and the greater awareness of the public of potential dangers, i very much regret that the directive does not cover the extraction of minerals, including hydrocarbons, from the shore. i believe that unless stricter rules are put in place and strict regulations are applied to the offshore industry, accidents like the one in the gulf of mexico or the one at the jebel al-zayt oil rig in egypt will continue to happen. since 2010, when the media focused on the deepwater horizon accident, there have been 20 major oil spills around the world. the seveso iii directive should be extended to oil platforms and oil or gas pipelines on or below the seabed and to all phases from the exploration of oil and gas reserves to the decommissioning of a well. the inclusion of offshore extraction in the seveso iii directive would not only help to prevent major accidents that threaten biodiversity in rivers, seas and oceans, but would also make clear that the principle of the polluter bears responsibility in the event of an accident, and that the polluter is also obliged to bear the costs of the necessary preventive and corrective measures, applies here as well.
in writing. - i disagree with the proposal that food labels should not include images of infants or other images or text that may idealize the use of the product. this is an unnecessary bureaucratic intervention which complicates the situation for the producers and is not at all necessary. it is based on the assumption that the consumer is stupid and manipulable and incapable of making an independent and responsible decision. i consider that assumption to be erroneous. the average consumer does not buy solely from the picture on the product, but from other information. rather than banning the display of this or that on food packaging, i think we should focus on the composition of food and make sure it is free of unwanted chemicals. on the contrary, legislative action at eu level would be very necessary in this area.
in writing. - first of all, allow me to congratulate you, commissioner, on your strategy for better managing the internal market. i think that this strategy, together with the single market act and the internal market strategy of mario monti, is probably the best thing that has happened to the european union since the single european act was adopted in the 1980s. i am not known to be in favour of deepening political integration ordered from above by european politicians. it is well known that i favour a gradual and natural integration based on voluntary deepening of economic ties, the removal of discriminatory regulations and bureaucratic obstacles, the expansion of the free movement of services, a digital market without borders, the free movement of companies' headquarters and the consistent enforcement of european law guaranteeing a free market. i am referring to the measures you have presented. they can be an effective remedy for some of the ills of today's union. but i ask myself: why has the commission only started to enforce the law so thoroughly now? for example, the services directive has been in force since 2009. a lot of the problems could have been avoided.
in writing. - i would point out that the better regulation programme adopted by the commission aims to make legislation clearer and more accessible, and that the commission should therefore codify eu company law in order to provide a user-friendly set of rules and ensure the coherence of eu law. however, in the area of company law, there is also a need to address conflict of laws issues and a proposal in this area could serve as a springboard for further work on the rules governing the conflict of laws for the case of cross-border companies. the commission should present an action plan outlining short-, medium- and long-term initiatives to improve the regulatory framework for eu company law. the 14th company law directive and measures to improve the eu corporate governance framework should be included in the short-term initiatives, while the 9th company law directive and the long-term initiatives to codify eu company law could be addressed in the medium-term.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that it is important for the single market to work to provide companies with the conditions to adapt to the current development of crossborder trade and the changing economic environment. i support measures to make it easier for companies to operate in foreign markets and to allow them to operate in the territory of a member state other than their home country. i am also in favour of measures to facilitate the system of cross-border operations. at the same time, i would also point out that there should be room for maintaining specific differences in the national legislation of the member states.
the question posed by the blue card. mr president, i fully agree with mrs kiil-nielsen that this situation needs to be addressed. we are fully aware and i confirm that there are many french companies which are specifically exploiting both the mineral wealth and the labour force in mali. don't you think it's time to use the pressure of politicians at home in france to make these companies do a little bit for the environment and poverty in that country?
for the ppe group. mr president, the situation in the sahel remains extremely serious. humanitarian aid for 18 million people suffering from hunger is being hampered by the activities of terrorist groups, traffickers in women and the political situation with the tuaregs in mali. the tripling of the european union's financial support this year was necessary, but i fear it is not enough. we also need to help educate citizens so that they are able to engage in legal activities that strengthen the economic stability and the necessary autonomy of the people of this region and that they have a chance to oppose illegal activities at all. the good news is that regional organisations such as ecowas and cemoc are active, and it is therefore important that the european institutions and the un help and provide financial and organisational support to them both in their fight against terrorism, crime and drug trafficking and in coping with drought, famine and poverty. i appreciate that unicef has saved a quarter of a million children this year who would have died of starvation and infection, but unfortunately, infection continues to spread despite vaccination.
mr president, although the sahel is a geographically remote region, it already poses a serious security threat to europe with the potential for further escalation. the deteriorating security situation in the sahel is of a more long-term nature. in virtually all three countries (mauritania, mali and niger) there are weak central authorities that are unable to control the vast desert areas in the north. tensions between governments and the nomadic tuaregs, along with extreme poverty and lack of employment opportunities, create a favourable environment for the unhindered activities of the terrorist organisation al-qaeda in the islamic maghreb. i therefore support the european union's efforts to ensure security in this area. in my view, the european union must play an active role in addressing the situation and must immediately start implementing the comprehensive strategy for the region adopted in march 2011. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. mr. chairman, i don't want to explain the position of the tuareg as a nomadic tribe. i know personally that the biggest problem is the problem of self-government and control of the territory. there are also negotiations possible and, of course, we need to find other mechanisms for them than for the settlers in those states.
mr president, when discussing the rights of minorities in iran, it is necessary to mention the rights of the iranians in the ashraf refugee camp in iraq, 80 km from the border with iran, where more than three thousand people are surviving in stressful conditions without proper sanitation, under constant pressure and threats. the high representative of the european union and vice-president of the european commission, baroness ashton, should be called upon to take action to resolve this burning issue.
mr president, the debate on the creation of a single european railway area is gradually reaching its final stage. however, let me point out a few problematic points. i am convinced that the proposed application of the principle of internalisation of external costs will lead to an unnecessary increase in the regulatory burden. this also applies to the proposed noise charging, even if it is voluntary. in the case of the european train protection system, i am sceptical about measures that compensate railway undertakings for having equipped their rolling stock with more advanced and more expensive technology, but are unable to make sufficient use of it for reasons not on their part . in my view, the advantages should really only be used by companies on lines where these systems are already in place, otherwise we are creating a virtual reality. last but not least, i have serious doubts about the compromise on the possibility of creating a european regulatory authority. i am opposed to such a large transfer of competence in the regulation and supervision of competition in the railway sector to a single regulatory authority.
mr president, the failure to respect the minimum rest periods and regular breaks for drivers, often under the pressure of competition between carriers, has immense consequences, leaving passengers helpless, despite all the rights they have under european rules. the tragic events of last weekend are, unfortunately, the saddest example of this. a czech bus with 51 passengers crashed on a croatian highway near the town of karlovac. one of the versions of the investigation is the failure to observe the minimum rest time of the bus driver, who along with 7 other passengers died in the accident, other people were injured. i therefore consider it necessary to set really strict rules, particularly for vehicles used for passenger transport. a properly functioning recording device that notifies infringements in a timely manner is an important element in enhancing road safety. as a result, it is the passenger who is directly exposed to the risky behaviour of the driver and who has the exclusive right to ensure safety during transport.
for the ecr group. mr president, i think my friend richard seeber must be very pleased with the united response and the united front in this chamber, and believe me, i want to join those who want to commend him for his report and thank him for it. i fully support the way it has been put forward, and you know that i am one of those who often criticise the excessive standards in the european union as such, but water is a real environmental issue which we must take on a pan-european basis. it is not just a european issue, it is a global issue. i also support most of the amendments as they have been tabled, and i also support the view that the quality of the soil is linked to the quality of the water. i would only dare to oppose the amendment which proposes a breach of subsidiarity at european level, and i hope that my whole political group will vote in favour of maintaining subsidiarity in this area.
in writing. the report on the eu strategy for the protection and welfare of animals aims to achieve a clear and equally good level of animal welfare in the eu, as huge disparities still persist within the union and between different animal species. a good standard of living for animals is a natural part of sustainable development and is essential for the maintenance of animal health, human health and the productivity and competitiveness of livestock farming. legislation should be clear, unambiguous, and easy and quick to check. the penalties for non-compliance must be strict, as we are increasingly confronted with the 'evil' of knowingly not applying certain rules. this situation arose from non-compliance with the directive on the breeding of laying hens. it is important to remember that the purpose of the common market is to respect commonly agreed conditions. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources and does not distort competition and affects trade between member states. this is absolutely unacceptable in the future. i stress that the eu must require that imports into the eu from third countries meet the same standards and norms as in the eu. this will prevent our farmers from being unlawfully disadvantaged and will contribute to better animal welfare in third countries. i fully support the adoption of the eu animal welfare framework act.
the rapporteur. madam president, the introduction of mandatory safety features in vehicles is always preceded by lively debate. there has been a debate about mandatory seat belts for a long time. in the 1970's, he began testing and then fitting an add-on to vehicles, now commonly known as an airbag. it is now 2012 and we are debating another major contribution to improving passive safety on european roads, the so-called ecall system. in a simplified way, ecall is nothing more than the airbag, which everyone now takes for granted, calling 112 to help in the event of an accident. and that's even if you're unconscious, because after a crash, ecall instantly and completely automatically informs the rescuers of the exact location of the accident by sending gps coordinates. no longer can language barriers or ignorance of the environment prevent drivers from calling for help. the two and a half thousand lives saved per year and the estimated reduction in serious injuries of up to 15% when ecall is installed in cars on a large scale are clear arguments. so there's only one question left. why isn't it working yet? the introduction of a pan-european ecall service available in all vehicles and in all countries was identified by experts as one of the main priorities for road safety as early as 2002. unfortunately, practice has shown that preferential voluntary introduction of the system is not effective. the fact that only half a percent of vehicles, mostly luxury brands, are equipped with a private on-board emergency call service, a kind of replacement for the public ecall service, which, moreover, does not offer eu-wide coverage, is quite telling. in response to the failure of the voluntary approach, the commission last year endorsed a total of three planned mandatory ecall documents. however, it has so far published only one of them, the september 2011 recommendation to member states and mobile operators. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation on the introduction of the ecall in-vehicle component, the second document which commissioner kroes said would be published in the first quarter of this year. this should be the first legislative step towards the mandatory introduction of ecall. i therefore hope that tomorrow we will confirm the common position of the tran and imco committees and that the european parliament will once again express its support for the mandatory introduction of ecall. let us therefore take this opportunity to send a clear signal to the commission that any further delay in the implementation of ecall is no longer possible. the promised legislative proposals must be presented as soon as possible so that all citizens can use the emergency call connected to the public number 112 system from 2015 onwards, throughout the european union. public ecall must be free of charge throughout europe, in all vehicles, regardless of make or purchase price, country or current location. in closing, i would like to thank my co-rapporteur, dieter koch, and all my colleagues in the shadow cabinet, as well as the secretariat and our assistants, for their cooperation, which has resulted in what i firmly believe is a balanced report with a clear message.
mr. chairman, as a doctor, i know that in critical situations, seconds can be crucial to saving lives. that is why we have been calling for years for the extension of the integrated rescue system to the whole of the european union. the integrated system will not only allow for faster and more accurate intervention, but also improve traffic management, so that other drivers can be warned and thus chain accidents or long traffic jams can be avoided. as the honourable member has already said, some cars have long since made it possible to use this or a similar service, for example in germany. i welcome the fact that these systems will be mandatory for member states' emergency services, the automotive and telecommunications systems or industry within two years. it's about time. this pan-european functioning system, also provided free of charge across borders, will be one of the more concrete examples of the added value of closer integration for european citizens. i trust the commission will come up with everything in time.
rapporteur. − mr president, first of all i will express my deep gratitude to my dear colleagues and the representatives of the commission for their participation late into the night. i will explain the sense and meaning of the report: it is to promote and strengthen the rule of law and civil society in the respective countries of the eastern partnership. we worked as a collective in preparing 142 amendments and we were able to accommodate in them some compromise amendments. at practically the very last minute mr cutaş on behalf of the group of socialists and democrats prepared two oral amendments which are acceptable to me. i have no problem in accepting these two amendments and i will explain why. the deep and comprehensive free trade areas (dcftas) is a very important tool in this trading and economic area, but i can also imagine other trading strategies. therefore, i am in favour of this proposal, despite the fact that it has been proposed at the last minute. georgia also features in the amendments proposed by mr cutaş on behalf of the s&d group. georgia has been accused of violation of the rights of children, using child labour. perhaps we do not have any public evidence of this, but the protection of the rights of children is my number one priority. therefore, i have no problem in accepting this oral amendment presented by mr cutaş. however, i have to remark that georgia’s president, mr saakashvili – a very good friend of the united states of america and a respected democrat – has been accepted here very warmly in parliament. you will perhaps remember when he made a speech here in parliament. that is practically all i have to say about this report. finally i would say that a parliamentary speech should be like a woman’s skirt – long enough to cover the subject and short enough to be attractive. i know that i am not able to fulfil this ideal goal.
in writing. i was delayed on the report on macro-regional strategies in the mediterranean. the reason is the proposed breach of the principle of 3 ne, which is crucial from the point of view of implementation for not increasing the european bureaucracy and the european budget.
in writing. the eu has the highest number of road deaths per year. tragic bus accidents are also becoming more frequent. the greatest danger is naturally posed by the heaviest vehicles, i.e. lorries and buses. it is therefore necessary to pay particular attention to the working conditions and compliance of professional drivers. the european policy on road transport controls and checks is based on the directive on minimum levels of road and on-site inspections of road hauliers and on the council regulation on tachographs. currently, analogue tachographs are used in vehicles registered before 1 may 2006 and digital tachographs in vehicles registered since then. the problem is that the conditions laid down by these regulations are being violated. this is what makes honest carriers compliant with the rules "sanctioned". companies that do not comply with the rules gain an unacceptable competitive advantage on the market and can offer transport at lower prices. the second problem is the inefficiency of the tachographs. the tachographs used do not assess whether there has been an infringement of the rules on the number of driving hours and driver rest periods, but merely record driving data. in view of the possibilities of digital networks and satellites, i would appeal for the future interconnection of digital tachographs with control points. i welcome the report as a whole and i voted for its adoption.
in writing. - i welcome the modernisation of customs rules in relation to intellectual property rights. the uniform application of those rules and thus the effective supervision of the internal market is necessary in order to preserve the competitiveness of european undertakings. counterfeits from third countries cost our businesses some eur 250 billion a year and the number of counterfeits has doubled in recent years, reducing the european economy's potential for growth and job creation. i regret that instead of effective instruments, such as in particular the capacity building of customs authorities, energy has been invested in negotiating an acta agreement which, in the absence of china and other states, would not be effective in practice. lastly, any tool for better enforcement of intellectual property rights must also respect the freedoms enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. the vehicle emergency call system, as described in the report, can significantly help to streamline the actions required to quickly dispatch the necessary assistance to the accident scene. this will help the emergency services to be informed of the accident in good time, even when the injured are unable to communicate. according to the information available to me, pilot projects of the functionality of this system, which took place in the czech republic, have shown the feasibility of putting this idea into practice. not only as a doctor, but as a human being, i'm delighted to be able to implement this emergency system to increase the chance of saving lives.
in writing. i hesitated to report, even though my state is one of the pioneers in this solution. although reducing traffic accidents and saving lives is my top priority, it's clear that nothing in this world works for free, and someone always has to pay. the proposed free provision of ecall, i.e. articles 9 and 39, is therefore problematic, since it can be inferred from this that both calls where this is not a problem, because it is already free and technical equipment are to be free for new vehicles. since someone will have to pay for it, there will either be a further burden on public budgets or an increase in the price of vehicles if the burden is passed on to car manufacturers who will pass it on. the question of the possible costs for emergency services from 'hot exits' is also a bit problematic, as the rapporteurs themselves point out. i therefore support the ecall service, but i want it to be clear who will pay for the thing and from what.
in writing. i would like to welcome the fact that this report is turning the ep's attention in the eastern partnership programme to the practical side of our relations, in the economic and trade spheres. although the original text was less open and sharpened the differences in ideological approaches, the final report is a good step towards improving our relations. unfortunately, it has not been possible to completely avoid formulations that imply double standards in the evaluation of the eastern partnership countries. it is important that the focus is on wto accession negotiations. but i think it is more important that the eu can reap the benefits of the cooperation of belarus, russia and kazakhstan, which has created a functioning customs union. turning its back on this community would mean significant losses for the eu in the future.
the draftsman of the committee on development . - madam president, as rapporteur for the deve committee, i find myself in a special situation because the committee adopted the opposite position to that proposed by me as rapporteur. the committee took a negative view of the agreement. i, as the petitioner, have been more lenient, but of course i have to respect the majority opinion of the committee. i have to add a few things. i think there's a clear majority in this parliament at this moment that just wants to throw this deal off the table, for whatever reason. i must say that it is a little illogical that parliament has not decided to wait for the opinion of the european court of justice on the compatibility of this agreement with european primary law. i honestly don't understand it, and i would find it far more logical. i accept the facts as they are, and as the deve committee has adopted the negative opinion, i have no choice as rapporteur but to reproduce that opinion here.
the question posed by the blue card. mr president, mr zalewski mentioned the fact that there is a democratic movement of hundreds of thousands of young people. qualified people who protest this deal. my explanation is that here for the first time, the emerging educational society encountered capital relations. what's your explanation, sir?
in writing. acta was negotiated without the involvement of civil society from the outset. european businesses and european consumer organisations were not invited to the acta negotiations and had no possibility of influencing the form of the agreement, while some multinational groups were, for unknown reasons, even at the birth of the agreement. the threat to generic drug transfer, the potential seed problems and a host of other impacts have disappeared in the storm of fighting online piracy. however, acta also contains provisions that could threaten fundamental human freedoms, such as the right to due process and fair trial. article 27 (3) of the acta should allow private companies to enforce the right. but the cornerstone of european civil rights is the right to due process and the presumption of innocence or the right to appeal. these are the freedoms that europeans have always stood for and always fought for. it is therefore not in good conscience that one can support an agreement which, in vague terms, allows civil rights to be transferred from the hands of the courts to the hands of private companies outside europe. today, the european parliament has the chance to prove once again that it is the last barrier between european citizens and the will of some governments or multinational companies to reject acta. let's do it sharply and quickly. and if we need to change the european legal framework, let us do it ourselves and not under a trustee from overseas.
in february 2010, i and my colleagues initiated the european parliament's push for the declassification of acta, and already at that time i drew attention to some of its problematic provisions, which will be difficult to ratify. unfortunately, the european commission did not heed my warnings or those of the expert public. the very concept of the agreement, which left out china and other originators of the eu's internal market counterfeiting problem and did not take into account the differences between measures suitable for offline and online environments, was flawed. in my role as rapporteur for the epp in the libe committee, i pushed through amendments on the lack of guarantees of fundamental human rights and freedoms, protection of personal data and fair trial in acta. the overall ambiguity of some provisions of acta led us to conclude that it was incompatible with the eu charter of fundamental rights. our decision tomorrow is very important because it is one in which many citizens have placed their trust in order to remedy the situation caused by the member states and the european commission. no less important is what follows our vote. on the basis of my proposal, the european commission will have to prepare this year an eu online code of rights, which will ensure that the rights of internet users are respected, so that similar flagrant threats to their freedoms are not repeated in the future.
madam president, as every year, we are discussing at this time the mandate for the budgetary trilogue which is to lead us to the budget for the following year. i would like to appeal to reason and encourage the search for compromise, as i have done in previous years, but i am opposed to our parliament adding fuel to the fire and demanding that unrealistic demands be met. the economic situation in the european union is still very complex and will remain so in the coming year. for this reason, it is not possible to impose a radical increase in expenditure on the member states. i think that parliament must first of all try to ensure that the budget for next year is adopted in good time and in the right way, so that we do not fall into any delays or delays. i think that is our most important concern, any budgetary disputes over a trivial matter would endanger the economic situation throughout the union, and we must not allow that to happen. i would like to point out that next year the european union will achieve fairness in direct payments for farmers in the new member states for the first time, which i very much welcome as a politician from a new member state and i think is a historic moment.
for the ecr group. mr president, i want to reject, at the outset, the arguments that are being made by some of you here, i simply do not believe them. i don't think access to a basic checking account is a basic human right. if you defend the right here, then in all your reasoning it sounds that you defend a mandatory claim, that something is to be created that is a mandatory claim. you know that in the course of discussing mr klute's report, as we were looking for common insights and a common compromise, we came across problems that we were unable to decide at the time, that we were unable to solve, and that will probably be difficult to solve for the future. remember, we were debating how much the account setup fee should be, how much the account maintenance fee should be. is the project closed to eu citizens only or also to those who are staying in the european area for a short period of time? there are a number of issues that we cannot support the motion for.
in the context of access to basic banking services for european citizens, i would like to reiterate a closely related issue. this is due to the persistent differences in interchange fees. there are large differences between the fees charged across member states, but also significant differences between banks themselves. the consumer is always the first to suffer from the resulting lack of transparency. i therefore believe that the commission should also focus on improving the functioning of the single european payments area and its transparency. i consider that the removal of these problems is an important cornerstone of consumer confidence in banking services, including the use of a bank account. a separate chapter is made up of those citizens who, for whatever reason, are not allowed to open and manage a payment account. here the report makes a clear statement that every consumer across the european union should be guaranteed the right to access basic payment services, with which i fully agree. i also welcome the call for access to a basic payment account to be free of charge or for the cost of providing access to it to be reasonable. the use of a basic payment account shall not be associated with any form of discrimination from the point of view of the final consumer. it is also important that access to the basic payment account is not conditional on the purchase of any additional services, whether financial or non-financial in nature.
mr president-in-office of the council, our countries joined the european union at the same time, and i am therefore delighted that another new member state will be chairing the european union, a country which is in many ways very specific, geographically different. we had the opportunity recently to visit cyprus, to meet with you, your minister of finance, your minister of foreign affairs, your minister of the interior. we were very impressed with their professionalism and their enthusiasm for the cause and i would like to thank you once again for the visit and for all the care we received. i'm sure we don't agree on everything. you spoke of political union, we are very sceptical about political union, we do not think that political union is the solution. we think it is a mistake, and i disagree with mr barros and the majority of this house, who unfortunately still think that this is the solution in that it would bring something good. you also spoke of the principle of solidarity. we must be careful that this principle does not become a transfer union, a redistributive union, which only creates interdependence and thereby increases tensions between nations. i think that's something that needs to be reflected in the preparation of the multiannual financial plan that you're going to be in charge of. on the other hand, although you are politically of course very left-wing, you are a realist and a pragmatist, as has been shown by your views on tax competition or on the problems of the financial industry. you can count on our support here, we don't need an ideological solution, we don't need any tax on international financial transactions. we do not need to eliminate tax competition in the european union, but we need to preserve it if the european economy is to remain viable. so let me wish you many successes, and i hope that your presidency will be crowned with those successes.
in writing. on 1 july, the presidency of the european union was taken over by cyprus. the circumstances of the beginning of his presidency are more than piquant. a member state before bankruptcy, the biggest tax haven, robbing other member states by inviting companies to join it, which pay virtually no taxes when they arrive on this island. i do not understand how it is possible that 47 countries have concluded double taxation agreements with cyprus. i wonder how many european companies have moved to cyprus so they don't have to pay the state. and now this scourge of all naivety is trying to get money from other member states to plug the holes in the turkish cypriot banks. i wouldn't give them a euro until they stop acting like a dirty tax haven in cyprus. few people know that tax havens are not limited to the west indies. it is time that the citizens of the member states were made aware of the fact that the cyprus presidency is behaving like a monster.
mr president, i would like to explain why it was good that the european parliament did not wait for the court of justice to give its opinion. after the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, we have the power to assess whether any international agreement is in conformity with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. acta failed this test expressed this view in all committees due to the lack of safeguards resulting from the unclear wording of the obligations, the poor guarantee of the right to a fair trial, the lack of transparency and the resulting breach of the right to good administration, the risk of breach of the right to privacy and communication. in general, however, it was mainly due to the considerable legal uncertainty it created over the scope of its key provisions, with even the greatest academic experts in europe unable to agree on their impact. waiting for the court would prolong the uncertainty in the region and also undermine public confidence that the european parliament represents european citizens and is an independent institution. the european court of justice cannot replace the role of the european parliament. moreover, even after the european court of justice has ruled on it, acta would certainly create greater market and national fragmentation in terms of human rights. it would have a negative impact on european citizens and businesses rather than on commercial counterfeiters. there were many reasons for the rejection, but the fight against counterfeiting is not over, of course, and we must be very strong, especially if we are to discuss the ipred directive.
mr. chairman, i could not support this report. europe is currently facing a serious financial and budgetary crisis. it is time to realise that the european union's resources must be used as efficiently and effectively as possible. a total of eur 748 million has been allocated to decentralised agencies for 2013. the total contribution thus increased by 3,2% compared to 2012, i.e. by eur 24 million. although this increase is logically linked to the launch of 8 new agencies and also to the extension of 7 agencies, i am of the opinion that the contribution to these agencies should not be increased in general. the main reason is that the review to identify areas of duplication and overlap between existing agencies has not yet been completed. i am personally convinced that there are several agencies which can be merged on the basis of their similar activities, especially at a time when we cannot afford to waste any more european union budgetary resources.
in writing. − the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement should protect intellectual property, preserve jobs, promote research and at the same time develop and strengthen european exports. i would point out that the protection of intellectual property rights and the fight against counterfeiting are, in my view, of fundamental social importance and therefore need to be given proper legal regulation. at the same time, i want to emphasize that i am categorically opposed to restrictions on internet freedom and free access to information, with the exception of the dissemination of child pornography, which must be severely punished. i am critical of the long secrecy of the agreement-making process itself and of the open questions that have not been resolved by the time of the vote. for example, there is a significant possibility of customs intervention for small quantities of non-commercial goods carried in passengers' personal luggage. another critical point is the relatively vague text of the agreement. however, such interventions could take place in the territories of other signatory states on the basis of the agreement. i consider this to be a violation of civil law, which requires that such interference be possible only on the basis of a court order. these circumstances led me not to support the agreement in plenary.
in writing. − i am convinced that acta does not represent progress in the area of intellectual property rights (ipr) protection, but rather significantly preserves the current unsatisfactory state of affairs. it should be borne in mind that the protection of iprs must be viewed from a completely different perspective in the future, balancing the protection of these rights with the public interest in making intellectual property accessible to the widest possible part of society at an adequate price. it is not possible to be satisfied with mere protection and repression without at the same time building a system of distribution or sharing of intellectual property that is acceptable for the future, especially economically, so that the inadequate and over-extensive protection of intellectual property rights does not become a brake on the development of society in all the areas concerned. in this respect, acta is a wholly inadequate and one-sided product. the second reason for rejecting acta is the exploitability for development and the covert preparation of the environment for the criminalisation of users, especially the internet. any protection of privacy rights must not become a pretext for interfering with the rights of much more important rights, such as the ability to disseminate and obtain information, including access to e-government, when we are already witnessing repression of this phenomenon in some eu states. lastly, public resistance cannot be ignored when we cannot ignore the views of eu citizens when passing legislation that may have a long-term and totally unpredictable effect.
mr president, the report we are now discussing recommends the introduction of a new financial instrument to support the bond financing of infrastructure projects. i'm generally skeptical of such initiatives because they increase the debt burden of governments and other investors who build transportation, energy and other public infrastructure. at the moment, these entities are already heavily indebted, some are even over-indebted, and helping them by making it easier for them to make public investment in additional debt is not, in my view, the right way forward. i would also like to comment on the amendment to the original text which requires that new transport infrastructure be built taking account of climate change. i confess i have no idea how that should be accomplished. transport infrastructure and climate change problems are completely unrelated in my view, and such an additional, ill-defined condition should not be included in the text at all.
the eu operates on a seven-year budget with a spending ceiling of 1.05 % of gdp for each member state. no wonder it's a little low for infrastructure investment. it is logical that in these circumstances we should be looking for additional sources of funding for the trans-european transport and energy networks. the proposal for a regulation of the ep and the council is one such attempt. the pilot phase of the project should now be developed and the connecting europe facility project bond initiative should already generate sufficient funds from private investors in the next planning period. as they are reference bonds when repaying various bonds they are directly ranked behind world bank bonds , they are a safe instrument for institutional investors, e.g. various funds. the pilot phase of the project provided for eur 200 million to be allocated to the trans-european transport networks in 2012-13 and eur 10 million to the energy networks and up to eur 20 million to the competitiveness and innovation framework programme and ict and broadband projects. it is stipulated that, for each measure, the funds thus obtained will constitute a relatively small part of the capital invested. a multiplication effect of 15 to 20 is assumed. as this is an aid for infrastructure investments, the gue/ngl supports the regulation.
mr president, i am happy to give every member state the right to control its external borders for security reasons, where justified. i respect that, but it has to be done in justified cases and it has to be done not because of bullying. if every second bus coming from the czech republic is checked at the czech-german border, then it's just not normal. this is not justified, because the czech republic does not represent a security risk for germany, it does not represent a risk for illegal migration, and if normal tourist buses are checked, that is beyond my comprehension. i drive from prague to strasbourg and i know very well that just beyond rozvadov, on the czech-german border, german and bavarian police are waiting and targeting cars with foreign license plates. i think it's some kind of bureaucratic procedure, that maybe somebody's cross-checking somewhere in some office, how many checks he's done, but that it has to stop. the treaty must have the final say here, and european law must be respected as in other cases.
mr president, we have put another question to the european commission because in recent years the schengen and visa areas have not sufficiently fulfilled their role as guardian of the founding treaties. it is striking that for years it has tolerated systematic and frequent checks inside schengen, where more than half of czech buses are checked by the bavarian police, without us knowing why. this also applies to us members who are checked on the way to strasbourg. despite all the warnings, including my own interpellations, we did not expect a strong reaction from the european commission. a year ago, the dutch constitutional court ruled that such checks were in breach of eu law. why is the european commission silent? why did it not launch investigations against countries violating eu law? the second problem is the dysfunction of the external dimension of schengen, the common visa policy. many member states are now faced with unilateral visa requirements from third countries and cannot themselves introduce reciprocity, as the commission, which is again inactive, has exclusive competence in this area. the unilateral imposition of canadian visas on czech citizens is now celebrating a sad third anniversary, because the commission is not fighting for the rights of its citizens. on the contrary, the commission is now fighting against the european parliament's full involvement in the regulation on visas issued by third countries and other standards. all of this undermines citizens' trust in european institutions that fail to protect one of the four key freedoms of the european union, freedom of movement. i have to say, in all seriousness, that the european commission and you, commissioner, are fully responsible for the problems in this area today. you're reputed to reap what you sow. you have sown a seed that does not burn you, even though it is indigestible to tens of millions of european citizens.
the debate is over. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
joint debate on: report by alexandra thein, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the temporary judges of the european union civil service tribunal (01923/2011 c7-0091/2011 2011/0902 ((cod)) and report by alexandra thein on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the protocol on the statute of the court of justice of the european union and annex i thereto (02074/2011 c7-0090/2011 2011/0901a ((cod))
mr president, i rarely have a disagreement with my colleague, tadeusz zwiefka, but this time i do. i'd like to thank the reporter for her work. i think that, as was rightly stated in the debate on both proposals, the number of legal disputes is increasing significantly, due in part to the enlargement of the european union. it is also correctly assumed that the number of cases submitted to the court for consideration will increase in the future, also due to changing legislation. for this reason, i think it is very right that we respond to these trends. in particular, i welcome the reform of the court of justice, which is reflected, inter alia, in the introduction of the urgent procedure for an expedited preliminary ruling. i also consider the establishment of the function of interim judges to be a step in the right direction, which makes it possible to avoid unnecessary delays in the larger number of cases. the court of justice of the european union has consistently held that the right to a fair hearing is a fundamental right of the union. for the same reason, i consider it a good decision to create the post of vice-president of the european court of justice, in the hope that this reinforcement will also allow the judicial institutions to take decisions more quickly.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, as mr mavroyiannis has already mentioned, today president van rompuy is in georgia. last week commissioner füle was in georgia – so it just shows the great importance we accord to that country and to that region. it is our wish, and it is also the wish of the social democrats, that georgia is successful: that georgia is successful in political and economic reforms; that georgia is successful in preserving its territorial integrity; and of course that georgia is successful in negotiations as far as the eu-georgia association agreement is concerned; and also that we can make speedy progress in the dialogue on visa liberalisation – of course with a view to ending the visa requirement for georgia. so that is very positive, and we also acknowledge the reforms that have been made in the past few months and years in georgia. however, as has already been said, there will soon be elections – in october the parliamentary elections, and then in 2013 the presidential elections, and we can see and feel that the political tension in georgia is rising. so i would like to say what our georgian friends need – both in the government camp and in opposition – to calm down the situation. georgia needs free and fair elections, georgia needs to create free and fair pre-election conditions, so that all political groups, all political parties, including the opposition coalition, have free access to the media. these elections will be very crucial for georgia to preserve the fairness and openness of the elections, and of course they will be very crucial for progress in the negotiations on the association agreement and visa liberalisation. so on behalf of the social democratic group i wish our georgian friends success in this endeavour.
in writing. i supported the proposal by rapporteur göran färm on the general rules for granting community financial assistance in the field of trans-european transport and energy networks. the report focuses on the pilot phase of project bonds, which is due to start next year. the report presents project bonds as one of the financial instruments that can be combined with other public and private instruments such as public grants, bank or bond loans, guarantees, equity capital and others. i consider it important that this instrument does not interfere with the traditional grant arrangements, which will allow the most needed projects to be concentrated on bridging the infrastructure gap between less and more developed regions. for the pilot phase, the european commission proposes a contribution from the eu budget of eur 230 million, to be obtained by reallocating funds under existing programmes. however, the commission considers that this redistribution will not have an impact on the funds allocated to support less developed regions.
mr president, discrimination and persecution of people with a homosexual and transsexual orientation is a sad reality in most african countries. in 27 african countries, female homosexuality is illegal and punishable. the worst situation is in somalia, sudan, mauritania and uganda, where lesbians can be punished by death. it is an extraordinary violation of human rights, which determine equality and freedom regardless of gender or sexual orientation. i consider the lynching of gay women as a great danger as well as activists fighting for their rights. i strongly condemn the murders and rape of women, which unfortunately are on the rise in many african countries. it's not just about violence against lesbians, it's about violence against women in general. women are most at risk of violence and discrimination, regardless of their sexual orientation. even heterosexual women can become victims of stigmatization and discrimination if their lifestyle does not meet local standards. we can further empower and motivate activists and support non-profit organisations fighting for human rights in africa through the european parliament and the european institutions.
the author. - mr. chairman, i too want to join those who are speaking out today in defense of those we call "prisoners of conscience". anyone who is unjustly persecuted for their beliefs should be given our protection. but i am afraid that our choice of topics is not in keeping with either the short time available to parliament or the depth of the social danger of infringing certain rights. while we can pass resolutions in defense of any nationality, we should not choose to incite ethnic and interstate strife that could result in a much more serious violation. today we will pass a resolution to protect the rights of andrei pachobut. but i'm afraid that most of our voters will be much more interested in the rights of another dissident - julian assange, one of the founders of wikileaks. doesn't it seem like a very dangerous precedent that anyone who exposes a dirty political secret to the public can be criminalised? (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i'm not the spokesman for president klaus.
in writing. human rights violations in belarus are unfortunately a sad daily reality. the detention of andrei pachobut is one of many cases showing how the belarusian government treats journalists of free media. i strongly condemn the detention of andrei pačabot, because the deprivation of liberty on the sole ground of expressing an opinion is contrary to all democratic principles and grossly violates the international legal obligations of belarus. given that belarus is the only european country where the death penalty is allowed, i am very concerned about the further development in this country of activists and human rights activists. i consider the political situation to be very dangerous, especially for the active belarusian civil society, and hereby emphasize the importance of protection and support of activists by the european institutions. i call on the belarusian government to release political activists from prison and to end the repression of independent and opposition journalists.
for the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, the standardisation package we are discussing today is the starting point for european standardisation to succeed in global competition. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur very much for having succeeded in modernising the legislative process for adopting such a major standard. the speed of standardisation is one of the decisive factors influencing market developments today. the accessibility and openness of standards, including the possibility to participate in the standard-setting process, is then a determining factor for the competitiveness of enterprises and their success in the market environment. the role of the newly proposed ict technical specifications should not be overlooked either. i am convinced that the proposed technical specification tool will be an effective tool to promote innovation in the field of ict. standardisation of services should then play a key role in completing a genuinely functioning and fully transparent internal market, as envisaged by the services directive. i consider that the rapporteur's success in incorporating all these very important elements into the report is a significant achievement for the further development of the european standardisation system.
mr president, there is a code of conduct for european civil servants which requires them to behave objectively, impartially and to avoid conflicts of interest. i have here a leaflet inviting one of the candidates to a pre-election meeting in the upcoming czech senate elections, which states that the ambassador of the european union to iraq, who happens to be the wife of the candidate in question, will also speak at this meeting. of course, there is nothing wrong with being someone's wife. it's also okay to support your partner in an election, but you can only do that as a private person. not as an official representative of the european union. i therefore consider that this speech and this notice have infringed articles 11 and 12 of the code of conduct for european officials and i ask that this case be investigated. to determine whether the ambassador in question had the approval of her superior for her actions, and if not, to impose appropriate sanctions.
the point has been closed.
the next item on the agenda is a brief presentation of the report by ms marina yannakoudakis on voluntary and unpaid donation of tissues and cells. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
thank you, mr president, i too support this report, which builds on our previous reports. and of course, this report also encourages free tissue and cell donation. and i also see this as a very important way to make transplantation safer for recipients in those countries where it is still possible to donate blood and tissue for money. the lack of tissues, in particular spinal cord, gametes, bone marrow, corneas, skin, as the rapporteur emphasises, is also a reason why there is a need to strengthen cooperation within the union and harmonise certain standards. i have some very important good news from the czech republic. because last week, scientists demonstrated that it's possible to use stem cells from dead patients for therapeutic purposes, even hours after they're dead. these cells retain their properties despite the serious illnesses that the deceased suffered. another promising area is cord blood banking, which may revolutionize medicine in the near future. from a value perspective, it is right that limits on donation of germ cells should be set at the same time.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 11 september 2012). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr mikael gustafsson on the role of women in the organic economy [2012/2035(ini) ] (a7-0235/2012).
mr president, i originally came because i wanted to speak on the following report, but some of the previous statements made by my colleagues, although i respect them very much, have made me feel compelled to speak again. yes, i agree that whether it is women who are playing their part in the so-called green economy or elsewhere, we need to promote gender equality and to promote all the opportunities that modern policies offer them in the sense that they can continue to do so when they start a family. to get these gender stereotypes right. so that they don't continue. to share custody of their children with their husbands. and it's mostly about farms in these cases, which is agriculture, where the family works together. i can't agree that children are affected in any way and i want to support the ideas that are related to this. it means that women have their options.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 11 september 2012). written statements (rule 149)
the next item on the agenda is a brief presentation of the report by mrs iratxe garcía pérez on the working conditions of women in the services sector [2012/2046 (ini) ] (a7-0246/2012).
the question posed by the blue card. i'd like to respond to one thing you said, which is whether or not we should have more male members in preschools. if my translation was correct, it was said this way, and i want to ask you why we shouldn't have more male colleagues in these institutions, how many children do you have and how many times have you been with them in these preschools and how many male members were there, male colleagues? because i have experience that we try everything to be in this college of pre-schools among the educators or teachers male colleagues. and it needs to be broken down like that.
mr president, it is a fact that there are still occupations in which women are more represented than men, and that this is still directly linked to the gender stereotypes that still prevail in society. i also agree that women are often undervalued for the same work as men and that in addition to horizontal segregation, we also have vertical segregation in the labour market. i think we shouldn't talk about the service sector as a low-status, low-prestige occupation. i believe that our society values these jobs, teaching, caregiving and so on, and recognizes that these jobs are irreplaceable. i am generally opposed to excessive regulation and, while i agree with many of the overall themes in the report, such as the promotion of flexible working hours and childcare, i cannot agree with the development of new proposals at european union level which will regulate this area very closely. we must also take into account that, for example, household services and private childcare services are specialised in smaller firms that are not able to adapt to the regulation currently required by this report.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, i would like to join those who thank our colleague rapporteur, linda mcavan, for the great work she has done on this legislative proposal. i am very pleased that after a successful trilogue it will be possible to reach an agreement on the first reading. i am confident that the changes to the recently adopted legislation that we have agreed will lead to greater drug safety, better patient protection in europe and bring about more coordination and cooperation. such changes were necessary to avoid similar scandals like the mediator case in the future. but i want to emphasise that even perfect legislation will be worthless unless it is properly implemented and enforced. the economic crisis and the related cuts are also affecting the health sector, including the budgets of national and european medicines agencies. it is therefore important to ensure that the competent authorities at national and european level are provided with adequate resources and trained staff to enable them to fulfil all the important tasks we have given them with this new legislation.
commissioner, i, of course, or all of us, welcome the commission's response to the tragic mediator case and its proposal to increase the information obligations of member states when medicines are withdrawn from the market. and also to strengthen the coordination role of the european medicines agency. however, it is wrong that these information obligations do not also apply to third countries outside the european union. i also support the publication of the reasons for refusal of marketing authorisation. that's all great. but i would also like to call on the commission to analyse the impact of european legislation in other areas too, when problems are identified in the member states, and to propose amendments to it immediately and in a timely manner. i will give as an example the fraudulent catalogue companies, where despite petitions from european citizens, interpellations and resolutions of the european parliament, the commission is still unable to remedy the situation. and another example might be a visa for czech citizens from canada for more than three years.
the agenda includes a debate on the report by satu hassi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the 'proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 1999/32/ec as regards the sulphur content of marine fuels (com ((2011) 0439 - c7-0199/2011 - http://www.europarl.europa.eu/oeil/popups/ficheprocedure.do?lang=en&reference=2011/0190co (((d)) ' (a7-0038/2012).
the debate is over. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 september 2012 at 12.00 hours. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the agenda includes a debate on the report by mr claude turmes, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on energy efficiency and repealing directives 2004/8/ec and 2006/32/ec (com (2011) 0370 - c7-0168/2011 - 2011/0172) (a7-0265/2012).
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, allow me to make a few brief comments. first, a personal note. i was pleasantly surprised by the atmosphere in the entire group of shadow reporters, and despite mr. turmes' reputation as a forerunner, i must say that he is a pleasant, tolerant and open partner for discussion when he wants to. secondly, i would like to say that there is a persistent problem here, that the project is too much about converging energy efficiency and savings. savings are not the same as energy efficiency, and of course what mr pieper said is true. i would also like to say that some of us had the idea that the commission and the council would agree to binding objectives and flexibility of means. that would be much better than an outcome which tends to be that the means are binding and the objectives are not binding but flexible. i think that even if the resulting compromise is quite good, without greater involvement of the municipalities and regions, the implementation will not go. and that's going to be a problem. as with the clarification of terms, many of them, while crucial, remained rather vague. so far, all the shortcomings i see are overshadowed by the fact that the result can be positive for european employment. two million jobs is something we should try this measure for.
mr. chairman, how to sum up a year's work in 60 seconds. i guess that's not possible. but in points. thank you and admiration to the rapporteur, to all the colleagues who worked on the directive. parliament has done an excellent job on this. acknowledgement of the danish presidency. it had strong opposition, strong enemies, it was not easy at all. the outcome can be considered a success because at least we have something on the table. without the directive, we wouldn't have achieved half of what we set out to do. for all the excitement and joy we have had in achieving this, the current version of the directive is above all an opportunity that has not been seized. all the main objectives, all the binding objectives, have been removed from the proposal by the governments of the member states and have instead been replaced, against the logic of the matter, by ways of achieving the objectives, despite the fact that the member states have different heterogeneous conditions. they wanted it that way, they put it in here. i talk to a lot of people, ladies and gentlemen, and i'd like to take this opportunity to deliver a message from them. people are poor, energy poverty is affecting more and more people, they have had enough. we have to do something to not make them really angry.
mr president, commissioner, the proposed directive contains measures covering a whole range of cost-effective initiatives to increase energy efficiency. efforts to increase energy efficiency in europe can lead to positive impacts on the european economy, but also on the environment, provided that sensible energy saving actions and measures are taken that do not interfere with the basic market principles from which western europe has benefited for so long. the energy efficiency directive should provide such sensible steps. i consider the text presented to be a balanced compromise. i particularly support the view that member states should have some flexibility in choosing the instruments with which to contribute to increasing energy efficiency, as the conditions in each member state often vary. the measures introduced by this directive should encourage and enable real savings. the directive should not introduce restrictive, unattainable objectives and increased red tape to the detriment of businesses and end-users. this proposal should not lead to a reduction in primary energy consumption in the eu at any cost and should therefore take into account other eu objectives such as competitiveness.
mr president, although i support equality between men and women in all areas and am against any form of discrimination, i could not support this report. in my opinion, it contains several statements that are not sufficiently substantiated. for example, statements about the gender consumption gap or the use of public and private transport. this report also calls for objectives that should be addressed or regulated at national level, i am thinking of education or health care, for example. but as in the other reports, i voted in favour of the point concerning the right to sexual and reproductive health.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund was originally established for the 2007-2013 programming period by regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. it has an annual budget of eur 500 million. the aim of this fund is to help workers who have been made redundant as a result of major changes in the structure of world trade caused by globalisation. through co-financing, it seeks to facilitate their reintegration into employment. since 2009, the scope of the egf has been extended to help workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. that is why i voted in favour of the release of funds to a specific company in spain.
in writing. − i supported the proposal for a european standardisation regulation as an important step towards modernising the development of european standards. it is a necessary prerequisite not only for increasing the competitiveness and economic growth of european firms in global markets, but also for completing the idea of a fully functioning single market. i also welcome the increased involvement of a wider range of stakeholders in the standard-setting process representatives of consumers, civil society or social partners. they must all be full members of the dialogue, since they are the end users of the products and services and are also the ones best able to describe their specific needs. working pan-european standards will not only mean consumer satisfaction but also strengthen their confidence in the single market. lastly, we must not forget smes, which can be discriminated against and even have existential problems if standards are not created and adopted in a transparent manner and if they are subject to a high administrative burden. i am therefore pleased that representatives of these companies will also be able to participate in standardisation activities through consultation.
in writing. − i voted against the report on the common system of taxation of interest and royalties because, although it is intended to increase transparency, it contains parts where there is confusion in the distinction between terms such as tax evasion and tax avoidance. since the objective is to prevent tax fraud, double taxation, tax abuse and tax evasion, i believe it is important to distinguish these concepts consistently in order to avoid creating a space for their application in practice. it is important to create a sufficiently strong environment to avoid another crisis in the future, but it is also necessary to respect the different policies of the member states. i cannot therefore agree with the paragraph which proposes that the commission should propose the introduction of a minimum rate of corporation tax. i believe that tax competition is good for the market and that member states have ample scope to tax enterprises at their discretion.
in writing. - i fully support several of the ideas and objectives contained in this report. i agree that there are still obstacles to greater student mobility in education between countries. these include lack of language skills, lack of guidance and access to information for students, and last but not least, mutual recognition of knowledge, qualifications and competences acquired abroad. in today's europe, i believe it is essential to promote student mobility through various programmes, such as erasmus, and to focus on language learning preferably in pre-school age. however, i could not support this report as it proposes further steps towards greater integration in education and, in my view, already goes beyond the eu's competence in this area. these are clearly defined in article 165 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. the council's position on the 2013 budget is to some extent a step in the right direction, as it envisages an increase in both payments and commitments compared to 2012. however, compared with the commission proposal, it includes payments of more than eur 5 billion and commitments of more than eur 1 billion. in view of the current economic situation within the eu, the ep has long held the position across the political spectrum that austerity measures are necessary but not decisive. the commission's proposal is that the ep should give priority to efficient management over short-sighted budget cuts. budgeting needs to be approached responsibly, and in particular to take account of the real needs for meeting the eu's long-term objectives and commitments. this is particularly true for key investments that are intended to ensure future economic growth in the eu. at the same time, all implications of any cuts in the draft budget should be carefully considered. lastly, it is absolutely essential to ensure that the savings do not have any negative impact on the efficiency of the ep's work. i am prepared to support a budget based on an approach that builds on these three work priorities and is in line with the social model adopted.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, dear colleagues, let me just say, on behalf of the socialists and democrats, that we too are interested in an economically viable, socially responsible and strong russia – a russia that is based on the principles of human rights, civil rights and the rule of law. this was recognised 25 years ago by mikhail gorbachev when he talked about the human factor. he knew, and the reformers knew, that they could only move russia forward if they mobilised the free will of the people. this will of the people, this energy of the russian people, has to be based on the observation of human rights, civil rights and the rule of law. so in this regard, we are also very distressed with the situation that has been developing since may, not only with the harsh sentencing of the rock band ‘pussy riot’, but also with cases such as moves to strip a freely-elected deputy, gennady gudkov, of his mandate. the same applies to mr ponomarev. we, the socialists and democrats, want dialogue with russia. we are willing to talk to our russian partners. russia is also a member of the oecd and of the council of europe. therefore, i think that it is in russia’s interest and in our interest to develop a dialogue not only on strategic partnership, economic cooperation and energy, but also on human and civil rights. it is not only in our interest, it is above all in russia’s interest, because without us the russian economy, russian society and the russian state cannot develop.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, i do not intend my speech to be in any way a defence of any decision of the russian authorities, whether state or judicial. i would like to give you the following example for comparison and reflection: in the czech republic, a member state of the european union, a real prison sentence was recently handed down to a simple citizen, a bus driver, for having painted some politicians with a tickle on their election portraits in protest. it is noteworthy that the citizen was sentenced by a judge who is the wife of one of the politicians so "adorned". i note that the alleged material damage of eur 600 was paid by the author of the articles. i repeat, it happened in a member state of the union. similar examples would probably be found all over europe. so if we want to judge justice in relation to politics elsewhere, we should first look at our own union playing field.
unfortunately, there are still many areas where the position of consumers in the single market needs to be improved. i have long held the view that one of these areas is to increase consumer awareness, i.e. to provide information that is accurate and not misleading in content and which enables the consumer to make a choice. that is why i consider the correct labelling of products, especially food, to be one of the most important consumer rights of each and every one of us. one of the objectives of this regulation is the labelling of fishery products. i agree with the rapporteur that consumers have a right to better and clearer information about the fishery product they are buying, so that they can make an informed choice. i do not understand, therefore, why the report denies this information to consumers, for example by proposing to remove the catch data, which is the data sought and requested by consumers. let us not deny consumers their right to make free choices based on true and complete information.
i consider the adoption of this directive to be an important matter. i welcome the fact that they will ensure that all victims of crime who are citizens of the european union are afforded minimum standards, regardless of their nationality or the place where the crime was committed. in particular, i welcome the fact that the directive gives victims and their family members the right to all information about their case and the status of proceedings in their mother tongue, that victims should be provided with support services such as accommodation, medical care, psychological and legal counselling, that the directive is intended to ensure the protection of the privacy of the victim, and thus seeks to avoid repeated victimisation. this is particularly important for victims with specific needs, which may be considered to be primarily children who need special attention during the proceedings, or victims of sexual or domestic violence. in all these cases, it is imperative to prevent contact between the victim and the perpetrator. finally, i would just like to point out that the way in which these rules are actually applied in the member states is important, since the legislative act is only the beginning. but for this piece of legislation, i thank all the parties involved.
mr president, commissioner, tomorrow we will be voting on a directive which will finally introduce minimum european standards of rights, support and protection for all victims of crime. given the cross-border dimension of crime, it is important that it establishes equal rights for all victims, regardless of their status, such as the right to translation and interpretation, as well as ensuring access to legal aid. other positive aspects include increased protection for particularly vulnerable groups of victims, such as children and women, and a ban on the media contributing to the subsequent victimization of victims by revealing their identity. i appreciate that states will have to commit to training judges and prosecutors and also to funding information campaigns and providing statistical information to evaluate the success of the directive in the future. however, i am not alone in assuming that states will provide victims with additional rights, beyond the minimum limits of this directive, sufficient to alleviate their difficult situation and to help them prevent or minimise post-traumatic complications by providing additional services, such as free specialist psychological assistance. but this directive, ladies and gentlemen, is also proof that europeans respect human dignity under all circumstances.
in writing. the idea of a banking union, which has caused considerable discontent at government level in the czech republic, is one that i personally welcome. its existence should restore confidence in banks and the single currency. it would also be part of the long-term vision of eu economic and fiscal integration. the main elements of the banking union are eu-wide banking rules including common but flexible capital requirements for banks to maintain, a single eu banking supervision with direct supervision of banks operating in several countries and of large banking houses, allowing for enforcement and greater visibility of risk controls, common rules to prevent banks from failing and, if a bank is in trouble, allowing for timely intervention so that it does not have to be bailed out of taxpayers' money, and a single deposit insurance scheme providing protection for depositors, wherever they deposit or invest their money in the union. the aim is to strengthen confidence in the entire banking system.
in writing. − human rights, in particular respect for the rights of women and children, are among the fundamental values to be respected. also, in view of the vulnerability of the child's psyche, the further victimization of victims, which could be negatively affected in public judicial proceedings, which could ultimately represent a significant barrier to building social relationships with their environment, i welcome this report. child pornography offences in many cases transcend national borders and therefore require a single, coherent legal framework.
for the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, first of all, let me say on behalf of the european conservatives that we really want the european area to be a prosperous area, to be an area of economic and social stability. however, i think that the proposal we are discussing today, like mr gauzès, deserves a more general debate. and that debate is to be seen in what we heard today from mr barroso, president of the european commission, who told us that banking union is only part of a plan to deepen monetary union, to complete fiscal union and to complete political union. you can't separate that. we simply do not agree that the banking union is a miracle cure for all the current economic problems. we think that the individual member states should undertake serious structural reforms, and we see in the proposal for a banking union more a postponement of these reforms, we see in it more something which helps the states to overcome them, which transfers all debts to the supranational level and which, let us say, at the supranational level is meant to deal temporarily with serious, deep and age-old problems which are only temporarily solved by this proposal. if i say this, and if what president barroso said today is also true, then it must be said that such a process must be democratically legitimised. it cannot happen, and i apologize to this room, but it cannot happen only in these half-empty rows. they must be the subject of serious and in-depth debate in the national parliaments. citizens must be seriously informed about what is being prepared, with what consequences for their states and with what consequences for their pockets, what are the benefits and what are the costs. i think that without a fundamental and serious debate, it's not possible.
mr president, the czech republic is one of the new member states where producers have registered the highest number of protected european designations. this shows that there is a fairly high level of interest in these labels. producers do it themselves and voluntarily, because they've come to believe that it will help them in the market. the quality of food and agricultural products is also becoming a very important issue for consumers. they gradually learn to understand european labelling and its symbolism used on labels. it would be a mistake to think that this marking is already understood by everyone. nevertheless, we are on the right track, and the number of those who know these signs is steadily increasing. i believe that what this system needs most is long-term stability. only in this way can it be known by all consumers and taken into account in their decision-making. frequent and extensive changes will not help us, they will only lead to confusion. it is important for manufacturers that the procedures and requirements for obtaining these markings are clear and simple.
in writing. europe is built on long-term and traditionally grown or produced products. european food producers provide consumers with a very diverse and generally very high quality food supply. protected european brands are created, representing their history and their quality today. the current quality schemes include, for example, protected designation of origin (pdo), protected geographical indication (pgi), traditional speciality guaranteed (tsg), organic and outermost regions. food in these systems is identified by its own logo, thus allowing quick consumer orientation. the quality and labelling system for food helps to promote better enforcement on the european and world markets. it is essential to persevere in this endeavour and to continue to improve the quality of products and food policy. the new european commission proposal aims to adapt eu quality legislation, improve the functioning of national and private certification systems, to make them simpler, more transparent and understandable, and adaptable to innovation and rapid progress. it is also important that they represent a lesser burden for producers and managers. the report on the quality of agricultural products is a contribution to european legislation, the agricultural market, producers and consumers, and i therefore support its adoption.
in writing. social enterprise is a topic that, not only in the current crisis but also in the future, may be very important for solving one of the key problems of the eu: massive unemployment. social enterprises are almost exclusively small and medium-sized enterprises and their mission reflects a strong emphasis on sustainable development, i.e. development that promotes inclusion and addresses the eu's social challenges. this means that investments in social enterprises should have a greater positive social impact than investments in smes in general. the proposed regulation aims to create a legislative framework adapted to the needs of social enterprises. it aims to shed clear light on the characteristics that distinguish social entrepreneurship funds from the wider category of alternative investment funds. only funds that meet the above characteristics are eligible to raise funds as social enterprise funds under the proposed european framework. uniform requirements shall be established for managers of entities designated as european social entrepreneurship funds, for investment portfolios, for investment techniques and for eligible targeted enterprises. the uniform rules will allow the use of a valid registration card for european social entrepreneurship funds throughout the eu. the transparency issues are also addressed. investments shall be targeted at social returns or positive social impacts. the funds must be supported by appropriate tax rules within the eu. the concept of social enterprises is part of the gue/ngl agenda and is therefore supported by it.
for the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: thank you to sayyad karim for the great report and the job done. i consider it a success that the report does not only focus on the evaluation of the ex ante bureaucratic burden, but that it also places a new emphasis on the ex post evaluation. apart from the emergence of new regulation based on impressions rather than on relevant data and actual evidence, gold-plating, that is, the imposition of additional requirements beyond the framework of directives by the member states themselves, is one of the biggest sources of over-regulation, as my colleague said before me. and gold-plating could significantly reduce the ex-post valuation. i think it is very reasonable to have regulatory compensation which would require that, before new legislation is adopted which generates new bureaucratic and administrative costs, ways are found to reduce costs at an appropriate level elsewhere. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate my view, which i always present here when we discuss this subject. and that the commission lacks a strong partner on the european parliament's side to fight against bureaucracy. we should therefore start to consider the establishment of a european parliament committee on red tape.
mr president, while we are debating the very succinct and well-written report on the 2010 regulatory improvement report, the commission has already published a more recent report, the 19th, during the holidays, for 2011. it will not surprise many of you that the number of reasoned opinions increased in 2011 too, by almost 75% compared to the year in question, 2010, when the subsidiarity control mechanism introduced by the lisbon treaty began to operate. the required number of reasoned opinions to trigger the yellow card mechanism has not been reached, even in such controversial cases as the maternity leave directive. the fact remains that the real benefits of this control mechanism are in practice quite insufficient. the first successful attempt at a yellow card was just a few days ago. it is therefore appropriate to consider what needs to be changed and what can be done to reduce the so-called democratic deficit in decision-making at eu level, which we all call for.
in writing. − i think the authors of the motion for a resolution have done a very good job of trying to find a balanced position. i think it's right that the motion calls for an end to the violence. i still think the text is too abstract. the challenges to the syrian regime are academic, because the european union's powers do not extend to this unfortunate country. however, they apply to the member states of the union. i therefore consider it essential that the resolution should call on the member states to immediately cease military, material, logistical and intelligence support to all parties to the conflict. we must demand that the governments of all eu member states commit themselves to strictly respecting and enforcing international law in the settlement of the conflict in syria and to demand peaceful negotiations by all parties to the conflict. the tragedy of libya, where innocent people were bathed in nato bombs and, thanks to the support of both the alliance and the union for an unstable regime, the population continues to live in chaos, should be a lesson to us. our position on the un security council meeting on syria should be clear. and you must first sweep before your own door. it is impossible to ignore the fact that some european statesmen, on behalf of the union, call for an end to violence and respect for human rights during the day, and that at night the same statesmen, on behalf of nato, decide on the supply of arms to the rebels. legal nihilism is not going to be covered up by any propaganda. at least in countries where people are dying.
in writing. - orgy of hypocrisy. this is the only way to describe briefly the content of the motion for a resolution on the misuse of the judiciary for political purposes in russia. right-of-center politicians are under the impression that they are the right interpreters of what democracy is. they're showing us how it's possible to convict anyone from outside the eu. bishop rydzik of radio maria and his mohaired beret must be applauding loudly. not just in poland, but in the whole eu. in times of crisis of the capitalist system, this is a very valuable opportunity to say that we don't like something abroad. and those miserable russians still don't understand that when it rains in the eu, you have to open your umbrellas in moscow. i imagine the russian state duma condemning the tough stance of german police against protesters who are refusing to rebuild the stuttgart station. i can imagine my esteemed colleagues applauding a punk band that performs in one of rome's temples with a silly text demanding the resignation of the current pope because the catholic church in many parts of the world has been silent about the abuse of children by clergy. it is a pity that the european parliament has not yet commented on the dirty operations of the us secret services, for example in the case of the miami five, the cubans convicted for documenting the terrorist activities of emigrants against their homeland. i am ashamed of my colleagues who drafted the joint motion for a resolution, and on behalf of the gue/ngl group i say a clear no to this nonsense!
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, i consider the european parliament's comments on the ramily safarov case to be very appropriate. i consider the support shown to the mediators in the process of reconciliation between armenia and azerbaijan to be essential. however, i am not aware of any reproach in the resolution to a member state of the european union for the fact that its diplomats and legislators did not foresee a presidential pardon, or, on the contrary, saw it as a way of getting rid of the problem. with the azerbaijani president apparently having little room for other negotiations, it is no wonder that some armenians are reacting suspiciously to budapest's trade. on the other hand, i would expect a promise that the european parliament would help to normalize relations between armenia and hungary. the european parliament should also be actively involved in the negotiations between the states seeking a peaceful solution to the nagorno-karabakh conflict. i would remind you that many member states of the union export large quantities of arms and ammunition to this region.
mr president, year after year has come and gone, and here we are again, fighting for the budget of the european union. as in previous years, i would like to call for responsible action. our aim must be to work towards a compromise so that the budget can be adopted in a timely and proper manner by the end of this year. i'm not a fan of escalation and budget wars between institutions. i therefore do not support efforts to increase the european budget. the basis for compromise is to be the position of the council, which represents our member states, as in previous years. these are the countries that are now facing a difficult economic situation and cannot be forced to increase spending at eu level. it is good that the european parliament is now also trying to find ways of saving money in its budget. i think there's still a place like that here. i read in the newspaper today that the european commission is funding a €10 million project to monitor people in cyberspace. we also know that we are funding tobacco farming, even though we know that smoking is bad for your health. and we also know that we have two seats in the european parliament and it costs us 200 million euros a year. we can save money on these things and many others.
in writing. on the occasion of the upcoming 2013 year of active citizenship, the european union should focus more than ever on the development of civil society. the union's fundamental objectives include raising the awareness of european citizens of their rights, freedoms and opportunities for political participation. i welcome this initiative and will support it through my work in the european parliament. in addition, i emphasise the other areas covered by the year of citizens: access to information for all eu citizens, promotion of equal opportunities for women and men, and the development of mutual respect and european awareness among citizens. i therefore consider it necessary to promote the education of citizens both young and older generations in areas that contribute to strengthening european awareness and identity. initiatives in the regions of the individual countries are very important, because it is in the municipal sphere that political and civic activity originates. as representatives of active citizens, citizens' initiatives need maximum support from the union. citizen participation is key to maintaining, further developing and building democracy.
in writing. the european union now stands at a crossroads in its further development. progress on free markets and free movement of persons is undeniable. however, for european integration to continue to advance, it is essential to find the basis of a european civic identity. it must be based on the solidarity and belonging of the citizens of the european union and on the strengthening of the democratic elements in its decision-making. the eu must make a significant effort to raise awareness of existing rights of eu citizens in the european year of citizens (eyc 2013). awareness of the rights of eu citizens will create a sense of pressure on member state representatives, which will facilitate further deepening of the integration process. that is why eyc 2013 is a very important initiative. all european institutions, in cooperation with civil society, should raise awareness of such vital issues. the task of creating new impulses for the part of european civil society that supports the deepening of the integration process is particularly important and responsible. as the only eu body elected by the citizens, the european parliament must play a leading role in this respect.
madam president, one of the key points in the negotiation of the mff is the agreement on the distribution of resources. in my view, the berlin methodology used since 1999 to calculate the distribution of european funds among member states represents a solid and carefully negotiated compromise. i am therefore concerned today about the proposals to reduce the coefficients for member states with a gross national income below 82% of the eu average from 4.25% to 3.3%. i therefore appeal to the cypriot presidency to avoid any changes to the national prosperity coefficients that would lead to a reduction in resources for less developed regions. promoting european solidarity means concentrating limited resources on the areas that need it most.
in writing. i would like to start by saying that the macroeconomic measures adopted since 2008 to stabilise the eu's finances have so far proved insufficient and ineffective to overcome the economic crisis. then there are the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. for these reasons, the correct alignment of the mff 2014-2020 appears to be a necessary condition for strengthening european economic governance and for supporting the objectives set out in the said strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the mff, or eu budget, is one of the instruments that should help both to allocate investment to activities that increase growth and employment and to help member states with their structural reforms. it is the right alignment of investment priorities (human capital and education, development of the knowledge-based society, infrastructure, research and innovation, smes, green and new technologies) and their coordination in the member states that should restart economic growth in the eu. the report justifies, among other things, the importance of supporting research and innovation, cohesion policy and the eu's competitiveness in general, including the financing of large infrastructure projects (iter, gmes, galielo) and the european globalisation adjustment fund. overall, the report presented by mr böge and mr kalfin provides a comprehensive analysis of the mff and reflects the ep's comments, and i therefore recommend that it be approved as presented.
in writing. the 2013 eu budget is specific in at least three areas. first, 2013 is the last year of the current multiannual financial framework and it is therefore of the utmost importance to strike a balance between commitments already made and payments resulting therefrom. otherwise, the commission could be threatened with legal consequences if the payment of the entitled payment entitlements were not made. secondly, there is the europe 2020 strategy, the objectives of which cannot be achieved without financial support for growth, competitiveness and employment, especially for smes and young people. regional competitiveness and employment in relation to local environmental conditions should also be taken into account in the implementation of this strategy. third, the response to the ongoing eurozone crisis should be more europe, not less europe. the report reflects the above, in other words the eu budget for 2013 should provide more resources for investment and development priorities, not for administration. the report also draws attention to the pitfalls of the horizontal cuts proposed by the council. the ep prefers to manage efficiently. overall, the report by my colleagues giovanni la viya and derek vaughan reflects the consensus on the eu budget and i therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. − in the context of the adoption of the report on the multiannual financial framework, i welcome the substantial increase in funding for the union programmes on competitiveness, smes, entrepreneurship and sustainable infrastructure, which are at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy. i am convinced that further cuts, in the light of the commission's proposal, would undermine the effectiveness of these programmes and ultimately the credibility of the eu and its commitment to growth and jobs. i am of the opinion that the connecting europe facility to improve transport, energy and digital networks in europe should be financed by a separate amount and should not be transferred from the cohesion fund. if such a transfer does take place, those resources should be used in accordance with the allocations from the cohesion fund to each member state. given the importance of eu cohesion policy as a strategic instrument for investment, sustainable growth and competitiveness, i consider it crucial that funding for cohesion policy is maintained at at least the same level as in the 2007-2013 period and that it remains available, in particular to the less developed regions of the eu.
in writing. the new multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020 has a number of welcome changes. it is pro-growth oriented and aims to support the european economy. the financial instruments under the new mff may also support additional co-financing from private and public investors. i also welcome the more effective focus of the mff, with an emphasis on investment and economic growth. the new mff 2014-2020 also includes the mandatory interim review of financial instruments and direct feedback on the results of the review. in my view, this is precisely why the new vfr is a more flexible and more usable instrument. i also think it is important that the budget for the mff should use own resources, such as value added tax or financial transaction tax. that is why i voted in favour of the report on the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − in the context of the approved report on the draft regulation laying down the financial rules for the annual eu budget, i welcome the efforts to simplify the budgetary rules in terms of administration and financing during the programme and project phases application, evaluation and management , from which stakeholders should benefit as a priority. research is a precarious process involving some inherent risk and results-based funding may narrow the focus of research projects to less risky projects and market-oriented research, which would prevent the eu from promoting high-quality and frontier research. unfortunately, the overly strict interpretation of the financial regulation in previous years has led to a general risk-avoidance and zero trust in the participants of research programmes, thus reducing the effectiveness of its implementation. it is therefore urgent to simplify the financial and administrative provisions relating to the framework programme and other european funding instruments. simplification should not be seen as an end in itself, but as a means to ensure the attractiveness and availability of eu research funding, while simplification measures should also make it possible to avoid errors more effectively. as regards operating grants in the form of lump sums or flat-rate financing, i am of the opinion that the rule that grants are to be progressively reduced should be abolished.
on behalf of the ecr group. – there is unfortunately too much politicking sometimes over trade issues, not only in the inta committee, but in this house as well. so let me just repeat once again that those who say that this is mostly a technical framework agreement are right; it is. it aims purely at facilitating the elimination of technical barriers to trade; also, it is something that should be judged on its trade merits alone. it is simply a protocol to an existing agreement between the eu and israel. i do not need to stress how beneficial it could be to the eu; it would significantly reduce the cost of pharmaceutical products imported into the eu, for instance. secondly, the eu has already concluded and agreed a similar agreement with the palestinian authority. it has been a number of months since it was concluded and agreed, and it would be quite hypocritical of the eu side to reject the agreement. thirdly, the commission has also offered concrete assurances that this agreement is in conformity with legal commitments. i have to add that it was made clear that no products originating from the so-called occupied territories will be accepted. that is prohibited under community law, so nothing that comes from places that have been under israeli administration since 1967 is entitled to benefit from preferential tariffs. the time has come to move forward. let me stress, last but not least, that israel is a normal country; it is a democratic country, a european-like country. we should treat it as such, and not like some kind of feudal dictatorship. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you mr moreira, i highly value your chairmanship of the inta committee, and i can stress again that i consider your chairmanship also to be very well-balanced and i like it. at the same time, i have to admit that we simply do not agree as to our assessment of certain particular issues, and this is precisely the one on which we simply cannot find common ground. i do not consider your assessment to be correct. i really do think that it is mostly a technical matter and i do not see any simple and serious reason why we should block it further. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i can only tell you that i have no knowledge of any reports you are referring to, nor about the sources they might come from.
in writing. − i am convinced that the implementation of the single european sky programme will increase the demand for highly skilled labour and will bring very well-valued jobs. basic air traffic control procedures have hardly evolved since world war ii and have remained essentially a craft. air traffic controllers still use mind maps of individual aircraft positions, courses and speeds within the airspace area for which they are responsible. they still get certificates, licenses and are only appointed for one or a few of these sections. they continue to communicate instructions to pilots via radio communication. the single european sky, the sesar programme and the fab initiative provide an opportunity to modernise and automate this sector. this would allow for greater mobility of air traffic controllers, who could thus apply their talents on a wider scale as is increasingly the case for pilots , thereby contributing to making the sector more flexible, resilient and innovative.
in writing. surveys show that 50% of all problems in rail transport stem from delays and missed connections, but respondents also spoke of cancelled connections and shortcomings in the provision of information during the journey by train and directly at the station. it is therefore important that information on passenger rights is simple, clear and accessible from the moment of booking until the end of the journey. carriers and terminal operators should set up information centres or assistance services to provide passengers with the necessary information and decision-making assistance in the event of transport problems and to provide information in the event of lost or delayed baggage. furthermore, a single complaint form, a standard email, a low-cost telephone line and a central point for electronic complaints should be established, which not only provides advice in case of emergency but also forwards complaints to the relevant national bodies. in addition, information on air fares needs to be improved. prices offered on the internet should include all related charges from the outset. it must be ensured that the actual total price is known to the customer from the beginning of the booking. the commission must prevent all unfair trading practices.
in writing. as shadow rapporteur for the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats, i voted in favour of the report by the rapporteur, mr bach, on the rights of passengers in all modes of transport. passenger rights are a fundamental pillar of our group's transport policy. the draft report addresses the current rules for the protection of passengers' rights and sets out clear requirements for member states to improve and accelerate the process of adopting current measures on passengers' rights in all modes of transport. as shadow rapporteur, i have advocated that the proposal take due account of the rights of passengers with reduced mobility, the privileged right of passengers to safety, better access to information in an understandable form, the right to compensation in the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of airlines and collective compensation for passengers.
in writing. − i believe it is important to create a simplified and transparent eu regulatory framework for public procurement so that smes can have better access to such contracts in the eu and in third countries. public procurement is one of the effective ways to support the capacity of domestic smes to achieve technological innovation and to enable them to reach the scale required to operate internationally. i expect the commission to take an initiative to ensure that smes in the eu have access to public procurement in third country markets on the same terms as other companies. i hope that the recently published draft eu market regulation on public procurement will promote mutual openness, which should benefit smes in the eu. in this context, the eu should develop an ambitious common industrial policy based on the promotion of research and innovation, using completely new financing options such as project bonds, and supporting the development of smes, in particular through access to public procurement, in order to remain competitive with new major players in industry and research. the eu should also increase the value of european production by providing consumers with better quality information, in particular by adopting a regulation on the indication of the origin of products imported into the eu (the 'made in' regulation).
the agenda for the debate is: question for oral answer to the commission on the revision of the current data retention framework put forward by alexander alvaro, sophia in 't veld, sarah ludford, renate weber, louis michel, jens rohde and nathalie griesbeck, for the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o-000124/2012 - b7-0355/2012); question for oral answer to the commission on the revision of the current data retention framework put forward by judith sargentini, carl schlyter, jan albrecht, eva lichtenberger, amelia andersdotter and christian engström, for the group of the greens/european free alliance (o-000125/2012 - b7-035/2012); question for oral answer to the commission on the revision of the current data retention framework put forward by carlos alvaro, sophia in 't veld, sarah ludford, renate weber, louis michel, jens rohde and nathalie griesbeck, for the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o-0001212124/2012 - b7-035512/2012), put forward by maria constanti, anna mancillo, carlos mancillo and claude bustillo, for the group of the european people's party (o0007-015/2012); question for the revision of the current data retention framework put forward by juan aguilia lópez de la sierra, carlos busti, carlos severino, carlos severino and maria coimbra, for the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o0002);, by the group of the european socialists, by fernando b7-07-07-035/2012);
the debate is over. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the agenda includes a debate on the commission's statement on eu trade negotiations with japan.
the debate is closed. vote: 25 october 2012. written statements (rule 149)
i adjourn the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 22.55.)
commissioner, the 20th anniversary of the internal market is a direct call for balance. the debate has already shown that much has been achieved, but much remains to be done to make the internal market a place where all citizens of the european union can live a happy and decent life. a functioning european consumer policy that puts citizens first is also a necessary pillar in my view. consumers have already expressed some of their specific concerns, and it is now up to us to translate their expectations into clear rules, which is closely linked to proper consumer information and education. let us also not forget that rules will only work if they are enforceable and if citizens really claim their rights. in this respect, the single market act still offers little in my view. in conclusion, on the occasion of its jubilee, let me wish the internal market to be fair to all its participants - consumers, employees and businesses of all sizes - and above all to be trusted by the people.
madam president, i have only one question which relates to a thesis i know from the 1980s when i worked in the academic institution concerned. as early as the 1980s, 75% of gdp growth was generated by the application of science and research. and since then, the share of gdp growth has increased even more. so why is the commission cutting back on science and research? why does he do that when he's actually the most hopeful resource for overcoming the crisis? i think the commission representatives should answer that. why is this growth potential of the european union being attacked?
we consider the free movement of persons to be one of the greatest achievements of the single internal market, which we are celebrating its 20th anniversary with. in this sense, the erasmus programme can be seen as a kind of flagship. the erasmus programme is a symbol of a united europe. it is a symbol for european youth and their perception of the european union. it strengthens mutual understanding, european solidarity, the values on which the european union is built. this commitment to europe's youth is indeed the best investment in europe's future. we should be very aware of this and not jeopardise european credibility. that's not only unacceptable, it's shortsighted.
in writing. the eu's common fisheries policy has so far had limited powers and managed fisheries in a weak way. so there continues to be massive species loss caused by overfishing. the report presented deals with the extension of the two-year special protection regime to the 12 miles from the coastline most at risk. i call for the report to be adopted as it stands. and supporting the expansion of that zone to 20 miles off the coast. some member states are doing their own thing to protect their coasts, but the european union must set minimum standards of protection. the report continues the fight to preserve fisheries as an industry for future generations, which is why i voted for its adoption.
in writing. − 20 years after the single market was established, the european commission has proposed 12 additional instruments under the single market act ii, focusing mainly on the digital economy and crossborder mobility in the european union. the european parliament's report, which i supported, emphasises support for employees who take advantage of the opportunity to work abroad. citizens are not yet sufficiently informed about the socio-legal conditions. i believe that the european union and the individual member states concerned should focus on better informing workers about their rights and obligations in the countries where they work. furthermore, member states should improve the quality of language teaching at an early age and introduce a uniform system for the recognition of both formal and non-formal education, including lifelong learning. these opportunities will improve the mobility of citizens between member states, thus contributing to the quality of the single market and its development and growth. these are the reasons why i supported the report.
in writing. - i cannot understand how the european union is not defending itself against dumped imports that can destroy entire industries. a warning example is the gradual elimination of the textile industry due to cheap imports from china. i understand that there is the world trade organisation and its rules, but that does not change the fact that the united states, for example, has seen fit to protect its steel industry. the constant repetition of anti-protectionist slogans is not the answer.
in writing. the introduction of innovation finance instruments (ifis) at european union level should serve to promote investment in the european economy in line with the objectives of the european union. the innovative financial instruments are intended to act as a catalyst in situations where the financial market fails or where less than optimal investment has taken place. mfis should also mobilise financing from private investors. in the context of the multiannual financial framework, the commission extended the ifn's activities under cohesion policy to growth-generating areas. i certainly welcome this focus. as a member of the committee on budgetary control, i believe that the nfi should have a well-developed monitoring and that their use should be well coordinated with other instruments in order to function effectively. however, i would stress that private investors are not given preferential treatment in the financing of ifi.
madam president, i believe that the resolution we are proposing is a credible reflection of the european union's current approach to russia. this approach is in many respects supportive, and in this case welcomes russia's accession to the wto. but as is traditional, the resolution proposed is a list of homework for others, namely russia, and says very little about what we ourselves will do to improve relations. i think that the resolution as it stands means that we are again missing the opportunity to express that we consider the speedy abolition of the visa requirement between russia and the european union to be important for improving trade and political relations. abstract references to the current proceedings are insufficient. i personally lack the european parliament's own initiative and i fear that there is also a lack of understanding of the importance of this initiative. at the same time, i am not clear why the motion for a resolution claims that a customs union between russia, belarus and kazakhstan should mean the introduction of additional barriers to trade with russia. it is clear that such barriers would be contrary to wto rules and the newly accepted commitments of russia. but at the same time, we can say that this customs union will remove barriers and extend the wto rules to other areas. i cannot help feeling that the expression of this concern is an expression of political opposition to the ongoing integration process in the post-soviet space, not an expression of interest in the implementation of the wto's objectives. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. - sir, i'm sorry, i didn't have the czech translation, but i still dare to answer your polish question. i think there was a misunderstanding. of course, anyone entering must respect the rules, and i assume the russian federation is aware of that.
in writing. – the european union and the russian federation share the same geopolitical space. it would be a mistake to simplify the relationship between these two powers to an exchange ‘of energy for manufactured goods’. the eu and russia have many other mutual interests rooted in their common history and cultures. after all, we share the same land and are neighbours. i would like to believe that russia’s accession to wto proved that russia had abandoned the former ‘block thinking’ and is making significant steps towards being part of a multipolar modern world. how unfortunate that russophobic sentiments mean that many western countries are still stuck in the days of october 1962. the eu tends to lecture russia on human rights, often linking the issues to the former soviet communist era. one has to wonder with a smile why the still-communist-china is a much larger trading partner of the eu than russia. many economists, who have been so wrong so many times before, believe that the eu’s economic gains from russia’s accession to the wto will be modest. perhaps, but we should let the future show. meanwhile, let us, the european union, welcome russia into the wto family and understand this step as russia’s political demonstration of the will to be our partner.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, at regular intervals we discuss here the outcome of the elections in belarus, and at regular intervals we have to express our disappointment at the conduct of the elections because they are never free and fair. the belarusian regime has again missed yet another opportunity to express its commitment to european values and, of course, also to end its self-imposed isolation. what can we do? i think the critical engagement policy presented by the commissioner is the right one. on the one hand we need targeted sanctions, but on the other hand we should try to use all the means at our disposal to help belarusian society – young people, ngos – to help open up the country. of course we also demand the immediate release of all political prisoners, especially – as a social democrat, i have to say – that of the leader of the independent social democratic movement in belarus, mikola statkevich.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, let me first of all congratulate the georgian people on the outcome of these peaceful and free elections. for the first time in modern georgian history we have seen a peaceful transition of power. it is a great achievement. however, in a democracy this is not the end: there are huge tasks facing the political class in georgia and the people of georgia. the reforms have to continue. there must be cooperation between the winners and the losers, between the president and the new government. the tasks include internal reforms, both political and economic. as social democrats, we would also like to see social inequality being tackled, to see workers’ and social rights bolstered, to see assurances for the trade unions on free and independent movement and free and independent work, so that the rights of the georgian people are guaranteed. there has been talk about foreign-policy orientation. the new government has stressed that it will continue on the euro-atlantic path, and we welcome that. but there is also a chance to normalise – or at least attempt to normalise – georgia’s relations with its big northern neighbour, russia. there is a chance to move forward with the situation in the occupied territories, and i think we will support that. the commissioner mentioned the association agreement and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement. we should pay attention to these matters, and try to speed up the process. in the same way, we would like to see a speeding-up of the visa liberalisation process so that the georgian people, especially young people, have a chance to come to the countries of the european union, to engage in exchanges with us, and to move closer to european values and to the nations and people of the eu.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, the south caucasus is geographically europe. judging by the motions for resolutions which we have discussed in the european parliament so far, including the one we are discussing, most of my colleagues do not seem to have understood that the situation here is different from that in the countries of western europe. it is true that it was in this country that bertha suttner, a great promoter of world peace and peaceful conflict resolution, found asylum in the second half of the 19th century. it is also true that the famous josip vissarionovich comes from here. the south caucasus is specific in that there is and always has been a huge interweaving of nations and nationalities. it has always been a great power, whether it was russia, persia, turkey or some of the countries of the european union today. georgian cognac is renowned for its quality. the georgians are warm and congratulatory on the democratic conduct of the elections. still, we must remember that we are far to the east. families are more closely knit than in western europe, and family clans are far more visible on the political scene. i understand some of the ill-considered wording in the proposed european parliament resolution as a continuation of the strong anti-russian accents. these are not new in the european union's policy statements on the caucasus. i find the expression 'de facto occupation of south ossetia and abkhazia' totally unacceptable. its authors also promote the so-called independence of kosovo, which is not a good sign for these foreign policy giants of the european union. it is high time to stop the hypocrisy, the enforcement of double standards and to establish normal bilateral relations with the new government in georgia. this resolution definitely raises the question of the seriousness of efforts to cooperate with the russian federation in resolving the situation not only in georgia but in the whole of the south caucasus. it is time to break away from colonial reminiscences and to start seeing the european union's neighbours as real partners. for the reasons stated above, the gue/ngl group cannot support this resolution. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i think that's an interesting question. perhaps the colleague should learn a little about what actually happened in georgia, what the situation is in the caucasus, and then he would realize that the right to self-determination is being trampled on here. there were three autonomous territories in georgia that had their own governments. one of them was dispersed by a heavy military strike, and the other two were actually avoided only because the russians intervened. i don't think it matters if it's the russians or if it's anybody else. it's more about whether the people in abkhazia and south ossetia have the right to live there, because there were really lives at stake. and i would encourage you to go and see it, to talk to the locals on both sides of the border today. it's very interesting, it's not like poland, it's very different.
the author. - mr president, given that monarchies in the arab world have never been the shining example of democracy, and the united arab emirates certainly is, i am surprised. my surprise comes from the fact that we are actually looking for the first time at the medieval conditions in which foreign workers live and are strictly segregated. finally, we note the medieval conditions prevailing in the political life of these countries. i don't know where mr tannock got his data. my esteemed colleagues have found the courage to speak out boldly against this outrage. but that's not enough. the old latin says pecunia non olet, or money doesn't stink. we may have offended the emperor for 2,000 years since vespasian, but i believe that truth still holds true, as i hear it here. one modest resolution will not solve the situation, but the courage to speak out against those who have huge financial reserves. i am curious when sanctions will be imposed on all medieval regimes and i congratulate the authors on their incredible courage. this resolution is supported by the gue/ngl group. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. - dear colleague, i admire your hypocrisy, because europeans don't live in those fenced-in camps. but if a man in south asia -- this is after all a consequence of british colonial policy -- has to either die or go to work under these humiliating conditions, then he chooses to sacrifice himself for his family and goes to work under these conditions, even under these terrible conditions.
mr president, i would say that cases like this should make us think about whether multiculturalism is really a suitable strategy. i don't think it's that as a political strategy it's failed, and if it's been said that all discourses are equal, they're not. where attacks on human dignity begin, where they are carried out in such a brutal way as in this case, that's where the equality discourse ends. i think it's time to break the prejudice that binds us to the strategy of multiculturalism.
author. − i would like to express my support for the recommendations of our gue/ngl group, which suggest a comprehensive understanding of human rights in their inseparable connection with social and political rights. according to available un sources, cambodia is ranked 139th in the world in terms of the human development index, which includes education and health in addition to economic data, while belgium, for example, is ranked 18th. gdp per capita in cambodia is about $1,700; in belgium it's $33,000. in cambodia, 88 babies die within five years of birth, in belgium, five. and i could go on and on. i ask myself what practical steps the european parliament has taken to improve the conditions for the inalienable rights to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness in cambodia. i'm afraid a political resolution is not enough in this case.
mr president, the debate on this point in the european parliament is very important and it is of course necessary to inform the public about the social and political situation in cambodia. the european union is one of the largest donors of aid, and we must prevent it from being wasted. we must force the cambodian government, not only through our delegations, to strongly demand the implementation of the human rights resolution and allow people to participate actively in public life without consequential punishment and persecution.
in writing. − as is traditional, the draft resolutions on belarus by the various political groups in the european parliament differed considerably. i do not want to debate individual points which contain or have contained proposals other than the one coming from the gue/ngl workshop. i would just like to stress the importance of the passage in our draft text which, in paragraph 4, expresses concern about the prejudices that pervade diplomatic relations between the european union and belarus. i am sincerely convinced that the union's confrontational approach to belarus not only harms interstate relations, but also does not help the anti-government opposition. if we are unable to express our interest and seek common ways to compromise, then our support for opposition activities, which is not only in the nature of resolutions, serves only as evidence of violating the sovereignty of belarus and an attack on the beliefs or interests of those who supported the current leadership of belarus in the elections. i remind you that this confrontational approach of ours not only has no effect, but may result in a whole series of completely unacceptable escalation steps. escalation that may have completely different aims than helping the belarusian opposition and that may, for example, complicate integration processes in the post-soviet space. and it can, as the situation in libya and syria shows, lead to the use of means other than resolutions and street demonstrations. therefore, i consider the requirement of eliminating mutual prejudice to be an extremely valuable part of the amendment we are proposing.
in writing. - i would like to note the agreement of all the resolutions in calling the recent parliamentary elections in georgia free and fair. i believe that this is what this election was all about. we all share the desire that the transfer of power in georgia should be carried out without violence, democratically. the results of the parliamentary elections mark a new beginning for georgia. the political leadership, which has been characterised by an unprecedentedly confrontational approach to political problems, is leaving. i only recall the attempt to resolve complex ethno-political disputes with a one-off war. and i remind all those in the eu and nato who still supported the incumbent georgian president in this political style and perhaps even encouraged him. what else was the supply of ammunition, weapons, and help in training soldiers in an area where the fires of post-soviet conflicts are still blazing? how did the guards who tortured prisoners get a sense of impunity? where did the confidence of the political protectors of these guards come from if not in the super-standard support from some of the states of the union and the united states? the outcome of the georgian parliamentary elections should be a lesson to us all that the double standard policy does not pay off. we cannot proclaim our commitment to human rights to all sides of the world and then ignore the flagrant violations of human rights in a country for a long time - just because we like its foreign policy.
mr president, i would like to express my own support for this report. the internet has become an integral part of everyday life, and unfortunately, so have our children. although specific measures to protect minors online were adopted in 1998 and 2006, children are still exposed to various risks. these risks often result in both psychological damage and extensive financial consequences for their parents. statistics clearly show that children are particularly vulnerable to sexual violence, discrimination, bullying and commercial or targeted exploitation of profiles via the internet. it's shocking how some companies are so willing to exploit the ignorance and inexperience of these minors for their own profit and commercial purposes. children often do not know what is an advertisement and what is part of the content of the website itself. in the context of advertising internet quizzes and games then children ... (interrupted speech)
in writing. the internet is a phenomenon of our time, without which we can no longer imagine life. however, in addition to the benefits it brings, we must also be aware of the threats it poses to vulnerable groups, such as children and adolescents in particular. in this case, reckless use or abuse of trust can culminate in cyberbullying, sexual harassment or health harm. the parents who are the main obstacles to children's use of online tools are the parents who must be actively involved in the threats of cyberspace. parents are therefore key to protecting their children from the risks of the internet and must be committed to making the internet a helpful tool for their children, not a danger. parents need to have enough information to help their children. the problem of the dangers to our children on the internet cannot be solved by banning it. the way to succeed is through the cooperation of all stakeholders, parents, educational institutions, civil society and business. at the same time, the creation of a legal framework at european level that comprehensively ensures the protection of children in the digital age.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs birgit collin-langen, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the implementation of the consumer credit directive [2012/2003 (ini) ] (a7-0343/2012).
mr president, the consumer credit directive has increased the level of protection against certain predatory lending, for example by allowing you to withdraw from a loan within 14 days without giving a reason. nevertheless, the supervisory authorities continue to find various deficiencies in the controls of providers and intermediaries of non-bank consumer credit, such as advertisements offering loans that often do not contain all the information required by law. in the czech republic, for example, this is only half of the cases checked. i therefore welcome the report's call for greater supervision of advertising campaigns to prevent the dissemination of misleading or false information. and i'll mention one more specific problem, and that's what's called texting loans. a growing number of providers of these seemingly quick and affordable loans are benefiting from vague rules. the result is a consumer who is often unaware of the disadvantages of the loan and who is prone to problems with repayment. i therefore support extending the level of protection to loans below the lower limit of the current directive.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 20 november 2012).
the next item is the report by danuta jazłowiecka, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the social investment pact – as a response to the crisis (2012/2003(ini)) (a7-0263/2012).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 20 november 2012). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by heinz k. becker, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on social business initiative – creating a favourable climate for social enterprises, key stakeholders in the social economy and innovation 2012/2004(ini)) (a7-0305/2012).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i will make four points. firstly, the creation of a banking union is not an economic solution to the economic difficulties of the european union. the economic difficulties are rooted in high and unmanageable public debt and the associated inability of governments to address this in their policies. so the fact of the banking union is that it is only meant to open the way for the recapitalisation of banks from the european stability mechanism, which is not the solution. secondly, the banking union does not derive from the existing legal status of the european union, it is a leapfrog, not an evolutionary project, it is a project that is only forcing, anticipating, the new legal status. the defenders of the banking union themselves admit that its functioning is conditional on the completion of the fiscal union, the elimination of tax competition, the harmonisation of taxes and budgets of the member states. but this is not possible without political union, and both mr barroso and mrs reding admit this. that is not the union we want. thirdly, the banking union, if it is launched in the form it is proposed, will not be a project to unite and, moreover, integrate the european union, it will be a project to divide it and, in practice, to deepen the existing structural economic, social and societal cracks. this could be dangerous for europe in the future. fourthly, and i think this should have been point number one, because it is crucial, the democratic mandate to create a controversial project must be thoroughly consulted with the citizens of the member states, based on what they want. if this is not the case, if the banking union is created in contradiction to public opinion, it will not be a solution but a problem.
in writing. − i support this report because the development of the payment systems area can have a significant impact on the development of the internal market. standardisation plays an important role in facilitating the entry of new players. the application of standards to all areas of electronic payment systems is the solution to ensure full interoperability of payment models and to eliminate the risk of closing the market to potential competitors and innovations. i still see barriers to the development of payment instruments in the digital market in several areas. in particular, these are the fundamental problems of the various domestic debit card schemes that do not operate beyond the borders of specific countries. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. another barrier i see is m-payments, which suffers from the inability of key mobile operators to find common ground with phone manufacturers and credit card issuers. all payment methods then run into one fundamental problem, which is that despite the massive increase in transaction volume, the average transaction cost per payment made does not decrease. and that's not with consumers or with merchants.
in writing. today's plenary voted for the so-called banking union. the czech republic's citizens still remember the crisis in the czech banking sector in the early 1990s and are aware of the need for quality supervision following bank consolidation in order to prevent problems with banks' liquidity and stability. i therefore welcome the effort to create eu-wide banking supervision in today's connected european banking. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i am in favour of real and structural changes to the legal framework governing the european financial sector and therefore in principle support the banking union and further deepening of the economic and monetary union. however, i must object to some of the proposals in the report which i do not consider to be useful. for example, the creation of a common fund for the cancellation of excessive public debts or common european bonds is not realistic at the current level of european integration. on the contrary, improving deposit insurance schemes is an absolutely necessary step and will bring the desired stability. however, any modernisation of deposit insurance rules needs to build on existing national schemes. on the contrary, mandatory lending between these national deposit insurance schemes, as proposed by the european commission, would expose european economies to a greater risk of destabilisation. the current democratic deficit in european decision-making needs to be significantly improved, in other words, the european parliament needs to be fully involved in the review of all the steps considered. equally important is the principle of maximum inclusiveness, i.e. non-euro area countries should be able to join projects of deeper economic and monetary integration at any time.
madam president, let me mention the forecasts that ten years ago said that today, in 2012, the united states would be the country that would import natural gas and the russian gazprom was already planning lng terminals on the pacific coast of the russian federation for lucrative contacts with the united states. ten years later, the reality is very different. yes, there are plans for terminals, but on the west coast of the united states to supply the deficit area of the pacific. what's the matter? technological advances in drilling and technological advances in hydraulic fracturing have made it possible for the united states to be an exporting country today, and among other things, to have decreased the co2 emissions produced in the united states. in europe, we respond to this success in two ways. the first is the prohibition proposed by our great green inquisition. the second way is an overly optimistic reaction, which expects self-sufficiency in natural gas in some european countries. neither approach is right. as shadow rapporteur for the epp, i have tried to ensure that an approach that guarantees a high degree of environmental protection, using the best technologies, is successful, in order to obtain basic data on the potential uses of shale gas. at the present stage, i believe that all this can be ensured within the framework of the legislation in force, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity, that is, at the level of the member states. only after geological and technological verification will it be possible to start a serious debate in individual countries on how to use this shale gas. in any case, it is good to leave this opportunity open and not block the possibility of exploiting this potentially interesting resource. that's why i'm asking for your support in the vote.
blue-card question. – i have attended many exhibitions concerning renewables here in parliament. these were full of firms producing solar cells, windmills and so on. why is everything okay in this case, but in the opposite case when there is an exhibition concerning shale gas without any logos or firms this is dangerous? please explain it to me.
mr president, i am not a member of the green inquisition that mr březina has mentioned, quite the contrary, but i would like to ask the commissioners a few questions about hydraulic fracturing. first, does the commission take into account that europe has a different geological structure from the united states, particularly in central europe? we have a rather exceptional situation where there is a solid plate and a homogeneous layer above it that would be drilled. secondly, i would like to ask whether the commission is concerned about the impact on groundwater and the stability of water supplies. this is the reason that in my country, the czech republic, has led to the stop hf initiative, and in this initiative, today, because of this sense of threat to the stability of water supply, there are practically half a million participants. i would also like to ask how the united states is coping with the issue of rapid depletion of deposits. it turns out that when mr. obama promised the stability of energy supply for 100 years, he was wrong. the last question concerns the burden on the landscape. in the eastern and northeastern czech republic, where there are supposedly exploitable deposits, there are only 777 km2 and 1000 towers are to be built there.
i confess that the draft report on the environmental impact of shale gas and oil extraction is embarrassing to me. it is well known that the debate on this subject is modified on the one hand by miners, and i fully understand these entrepreneurs, but it must be noted that in densely populated areas, similarly demanding intervention in the subsoil associated with chemical reactions and the flooding of part of the extracted compounds from the depths of the earth is always associated with certain risks. geological maps show that the horizontal arrangement of the layers of the earth's mantle has been disturbed during evolution. that is why, even deep in the earth's crust, we inevitably encounter cracks, landslides, and other geological phenomena that can cause catastrophic events in the extraction of gas, oil, and other activities. i'm surprised that shale gas is considered an environmentally friendly fuel, even though its heating component is methane. the combustion produces the same co2 as conventional natural gas or carbon-based fuels. the potential risks on the plains of the united states or canada or australia cannot be compared to the potential problems in a densely populated area. therefore, it is appropriate to proceed with the utmost caution. in my view, risks now far outweigh potential benefits in much of the eu. i therefore agree with the need to carefully review and adjust the regulation of such mining.
in writing. i ask the supporters of shale gas extraction to take off the pink glasses that the mining lobby has put on them for a moment. the environmental risks of shale gas extraction are not addressed. in the eu, we don't want to hide these risks by treaties like in the us, we have the aarhus convention. shale gas extraction is not sufficiently controlled by the legislation currently in force. many provisions are not sufficiently implemented in the member states. mining has cross-border environmental and safety impacts, such as the threat to groundwater or the seismic activity it induces. shale gas does not address europe's energy security or the eu's energy import independence. the shale gas reserves are only able to compensate for the decline in conventional gas production, at the cost of environmental risks and higher greenhouse gas emissions. shale gas production does not reduce gas prices in the eu to the same extent as in the usa, because its stocks in europe are smaller and it will be more expensive to produce. however, even if the price of gas were to decrease, this would only increase its consumption, as was the case in the usa. the public is opposed to shale gas extraction in many countries. we represent the public, we have the information, we have the responsibility. i call on the shale supporters to realise that the european parliament is meant to represent european citizens, not mining companies and their profits.
the agenda includes a discussion of the council and commission statement on possible delays in the start of operations of sis ii [2012/2885(rsp].
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by giles chichester, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the activities of the committee on petitions 2011 (2011/2317(ini)) (a7-0240/2012).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (wednesday, 21 november 2012). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by eva lichtenberger, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the 28th annual report on monitoring the application of eu law (2010) (com(2011)0588 – 2011/2275(ini)), (a7-0330/2012).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (wednesday, 21 november 2012).
mr president, this is an article about the european parliament that appeared on one of the most read czech servers, and it's not a eurosceptic site, it's a normal news site. the article is called "the european parliament will pour more money into celebrating itself" and it came out two days ago. so if anyone here wants to talk about the budget, it should be the european parliament, which is setting an example and showing itself to be able to save where it is needed. if we want to be credible, let's cancel our perpetual travel between brussels and strasbourg, save 200 million euros a year, cancel meaningless projects like the monument to ideological propaganda called the house of european history, save another 50 million euros. we will abolish the information offices of the european parliament in all the capitals of the member states, i don't know why they are there. i don't know why we have an information office in washington. do we think we're some kind of u.s. congress? and you'll see that when we do these steps, so the money is found. this is what we're talking about when we say we want better spending. instead of setting an example ourselves, we hear mr. dole here, we hear mr. verhofstadt here, calling for confrontation, looking for conflict and looking for someone to blame. ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way forward. if this parliament blocks the deal, it will only make a mockery of itself, and i think our public reputation is already terrible enough for us to afford something like that. mr schulz, if you are the responsible president of the european parliament, you will not take the path of confrontation, you will take the path of compromise, you will try to find an agreement and you will not contribute to making a fool of the european parliament and to taking the path proposed here by mr daul or mr verhofstadt, for that is the path that will lead us nowhere.
mr president, some projects are crucial for the union, which is why we discuss them so often. yes, the iter fusion project and the european satellite systems programmes including the gmes and galileo navigation systems are costly projects. but i have said many times in this forum that, while respecting the need to use european money wisely, i do not fully understand why we cannot recognise the need for budgetary financing of key investment programmes. why are we calling into question our credibility and the union's commitments to its partners? if we don't support, despite all the difficulties, unique projects now, it may happen that we never take the decisive step again, we never get the chance. iter, gmes and galileo, in my view, can contribute to solving europe's energy problems and have the potential to create much-needed jobs. there are, however, indications that the european council could decide on an acceptable form of budgetary financing. if so, i fully support this initiative.
the mff debate is not just about funding. it is a debate about how much and what kind of europe we want: whether we are going down the path of greater integration and also solidarity between the rich and the poor, or whether we are simply calculating our relations through money. that's the economics of it, yes. if i contribute to the budget, what do i get? it is in this context that i understand the division of states into friends of cohesion and friends of better spending. we see where the policy of mere cuts leads in the czech republic, i don't want europe to end up like that. the european budget is only 1% of all member states' budgets, and 94% of it goes back to projects in the member states. we have the possibility to support at european level those activities which lead to growth, to reducing unemployment or which go beyond the capabilities of individual countries, such as transport links. this view of the vfr is forward-looking, with mere cuts bringing immediate savings but paying off in the long run.
the eu's response to the current economic crisis should not be less europe, but more europe. of course, it won't be free. this shall be done by using the appropriate tools that are or will be available. this includes, without doubt, the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020 to deliver on the 2020 strategy. unfortunately, the negotiations on the mff have stalled recently and there has been a certain fragmentation of member states. the group, which is dominated by net so-called payers, is demanding cuts in the mff. if these cuts were to be implemented, the mff would be around eur 973 billion, which would be eur 20 billion lower than the current mff in 2011 prices. i therefore support the second group ('friends of cohesion') which supports the commission's original proposal, because i consider the mff to be a key instrument to overcome the crisis. if the cuts were to be implemented, they would reduce competitiveness, growth and employment in the eu. in order to overcome budgetary uncertainty, it is necessary to conclude the negotiations between the institutions as soon as possible. any further obstruction will unnecessarily escalate tensions in the negotiations instead of effectively addressing the future of the eu.
in writing. i see the release of €670 million to help the area affected by a series of devastating earthquakes as a sign of solidarity. and solidarity is one of the fundamental principles of the european union. if a member state is forced to face the consequences of an emergency, as happened in the emilia-romagna region of italy this summer, the eu has effective tools to help. the rapporteur, francesca balzani, recalls that in similar situations it is very important to act as quickly as possible and calls on the eu council not to unnecessarily delay its decision on this urgent matter. i support my party colleague mrs balzani on all these points and will therefore vote in favour of her report.
in writing. i would point out that the environmental interaction is at the forefront of this extraction method and that it is not possible to focus only on the economic framework associated with shale gas extraction. in the czech republic, exploration and production were to be carried out in a number of areas, such as trutnov, náchod, broumov, valaš. mining or exploration, where thousands of litres of chemicals are dumped into the ground, carries a significant risk of irreversible environmental damage, contamination of even distant water sources and a direct threat to human health. this report has evolved and incorporates a number of changes which, in the overall context, describe a wide range of areas which should not be forgotten. although i have some minor reservations about certain parts of the report, i have a positive opinion of it in the final analysis and have therefore supported it.
in writing. shale gas extraction, in which mining companies in or near protected areas dump thousands of litres of chemicals into the ground, is not only harmful to its immediate surroundings. in the czech republic, where the underlying structure is different from that of some non-european countries, this extraction is unsuitable. the use of hectolitres of chemicals will lead to irreversible damage and contamination of water resources and to serious environmental and human health impairments. the risk of contamination of distant sources of drinking water strategic commodity can also increase significantly. as a member of the european parliament representing the interests of the citizens of the czech republic and also as a doctor, i did not support this report.
for the ecr group. madam president, overall, i find the european court of auditors' findings to be worrying. i believe that the biggest problem is the error in the allocation of eu funds at member state level in shared management. given that there are two areas with an alarming error rate, it is necessary to adopt a regime that would allow the commission to assess the individual difficulties of the member states and to react to them in a timely manner. in 2011, funds were spent in many eu policy areas in breach of the rules. the examples mentioned in the court's annual report often paint a sad picture of the way public funds are being handled. farmers are subsidized for more land than they actually farm. even the data in the land registers often differ from reality. in the employment and social affairs policy, ineligible costs were reimbursed, personnel costs were overestimated and ineligible participants were sent for training. beneficiaries of union funds shall claim any unjustified or unrealised costs. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. a significant number of errors are also linked to the circumvention of selection and award procedures. there is a breach of conditionality and provision of incorrect data by both the beneficiaries and the member states. the question is whether the rules are really too complex or whether these shortcomings are the result of a reluctance to get to know them thoroughly, to follow them or of other, even worse, intentions. for example, in regional policy programmes, more than half of the audited operations were affected by errors. however, the member states' authorities had sufficient information to identify and correct most of the errors before submitting certified expenditure to the commission. and this problem is not just regional policy, but also other areas of european union policy. it is clear that control within the member states is failing. i believe that the competent authorities of the member states should work more efficiently and bear a higher level of responsibility, as has been discussed for a long time. control systems in most eu policy areas have been found to be only partially effective, meaning that we know that transparent rules and thorough checks at all levels need to be ensured. but beyond formal control, it is also important to target and invest substantial funds in meaningful projects. even if a project is formally sound, it may not always be beneficial for european citizens.
madam president, anyone who reads the annual report of the european court of auditors gets the feeling that someone is making a big mistake somewhere. the budget is unreliable, the error rate is high, controls fail and the individual programmes are so flawed that the added value of the european union cannot be demonstrated. one of the areas where the levy is most criticised is regional policy. here, according to the auditors, 59% of the transactions assessed are fraught with errors. the most common irregularities are breaches of public procurement rules and ineligible payments for projects. and that's where i see the problem. the reality is that, with few exceptions, the beneficiaries of european funds are not defrauding or falsifying projects. the beneficiaries are simply not familiar with the extremely complex rules and bureaucratic procedures. they often do the work in good faith and then find out that they have saved where they could not and have done work they were not allowed to do, or that the union flag on the façade is not the required size and therefore they have to return the money. the court recommends that more guidance be issued, that the application of eu rules be strictly monitored, that more checks be carried out and that sanctions be strengthened as improvements in this area. but this is not the way. the only way to radically overhaul the bureaucratic rules is to simplify the whole process and to strengthen the participation of the final beneficiaries in the projects implemented. and then we'll all just be able to do projects that make sense to us because they're not free.
for the ecr group. mr president, at present many member states of the european union are trying to redress the often dramatic developments in photovoltaic power stations. the problem is excessive public support for the purchase of electricity from these renewable sources. on the one hand, state aid has led to an incredibly rapid growth of pv installations, on the other hand, this has not meant an increase in the production of components by companies from member states. in europe, these were replaced by cheaper imports from china. some existing panels were even closed down and this resulted in an increase in unemployment in some regions. as it appears, there has been a distortion of market principles. the support of artificially induced market demand and the continuously falling price of imported pv panels with the increase in the price of electricity for the population create the need to address the situation that has arisen and i agree that the solution must be very fast. the dispute between the european union and china in trade relations regarding the price of imported panels should therefore be resolved by agreement and cooperation in order to avoid further market problems and indeed it is a very important matter with a very high time pressure to resolve.
in writing. allow me to make a small general comment on the common foreign and security policy of the european union. recent events, particularly the arab spring, have led me to ask whether we should not look more closely at the relationship between the eu's foreign and security policy and nato. i think it is time to say what rules apply to the member states of the union. can statesmen speak in the name of the union by day about peace, respect for human rights and the binding force of international law, and then at night the same statesmen in the name of nato decide to bomb a country, supply weapons to selected rebels and sever hitherto unquestioned diplomatic ties? i am deeply convinced that we should start a debate about where the boundaries of the arbitrariness of the member states of the union are. is it possible for one country to recognise kosovo without consulting other countries, another to recognise rebel groups in syria, and for the european parliament to remain silent because it is dealing with human rights violations in myanmar? how long can paris, for example, violate our common policy agreements in the mediterranean and africa without consulting our eu partners?
in writing. elections to the european parliament are always a reliable indicator of the attitude of european union citizens towards integration, reflecting their relationship to the eu institutions and bodies in terms of their perception of democracy or its deficit. if the overall turnout in the european elections has decreased from 63% in 1979 to 43% in 2009, this is worrying to say the least. this fact is all the more important in the light of the objective finding made, moreover, in other reports drawn up by the european parliament that the union is currently facing a pressing problem of citizens of the union who are to a large extent questioning its legitimacy. the preparations for the 2014 european parliament elections must therefore go beyond the standards of the past, while strengthening the role of both political parties at european level and political groups in the european parliament.
− the first item on today's agenda is the human rights situation in iran, in particular the mass executions and the recent death of blogger sattar beheshti.
the debate is over. the vote will take place after the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the situation in burma, in particular the continuing violence in rakhine state, is also on the agenda.
the debate is over. the vote will take place after the debate.
the agenda is to discuss the situation of migrants in libya see the note.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, the motion for a resolution on libya contains demands directed both at the new government and at the european companies operating there. i think they're legitimate suggestions and recommendations. but what i am missing in the resolution is the fundamental issue that is complicating the situation not only in libya but in all the other countries where some of the countries of the european union have been involved in government and regime change. i think that in the face of the transformational challenges in afghanistan, iraq and now libya, we should really think about what mistakes we're making. it is not enough to advise, mentor, send troops or humanitarian aid, which often ends up in the hands of pro-european political elites but completely corrupt. finally, we must ask ourselves what we don't understand in these countries when our sometimes even well-intentioned advice and actions don't fall on the right soil, even have a counterproductive effect.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
the vote is over.
i adjourn the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 4.40 p.m.)
i would like to say that i am not in complete agreement with my colleague catherine, whom i respect and with whom we have a fundamental understanding on many issues, and i do not think that a large number of my colleagues will agree with her on this point. i see the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and central america as a natural development in relations with our partners on the other side of the atlantic. this agreement represents an opportunity for european standardisation, standardisation, the creation of an open market for public procurement, the strengthening of intellectual property protection as well as the development of industrial cooperation or electronic commerce. however, i would like to emphasise that relations between the european union and the central american region are more than just free trade. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the cotonou agreement, in particular through the implementation of the cotonou agreement, the cotonou agreement and the cotonou agreement. and last but not least, i cannot forget the issue of protecting human rights. all our partners with whom we have such close relations must guarantee the standard of care that is common here on the eastern side of the atlantic. that's why i'm a big supporter of including a human rights clause in the deal. ladies and gentlemen, central america is a natural ally of europe. this is also supported by the work of the european union foundation for latin america and the caribbean, which is led by benita ferrero-waldner. i would like to thank her here today for the work she is doing in the field of relations between the european union and the countries of latin america.
for the ecr group. madam president, let me make a general comment on trade policy first. after all, this is the european union's calling card. an active trade policy is the european union's best badge, because trade policy is the area where integration has gone the furthest. i think the proactive approach deserves credit. i am glad that commissioner de gucht has taken such an active approach, and i would rather wish that many other commissioners would take such a rational and non-ideological approach to their agenda. and as for the commission, we hear the views of civil society organisations, ngos, which are interpreted by various colleagues. however, the agreement is a legal act and is negotiated by the executive. the executive of the european union is the commission, on the other hand we have the governments of the countries concerned and we can listen to civil society, we can listen to ngos, but the negotiators will always be the executives. that's obvious. i can only say what the rapporteur, mr mario david, has already said about the agreement itself. we're talking about two countries here, colombia and peru, but sometimes i feel like we're talking about colombia. some of my colleagues have it for various reasons. i have a feeling they're either not fully informed or they're just trying to get some information. it is therefore worth re-emphasising the significant progress made by colombia over the last 10 years in building democracy, stabilising the economy and protecting human rights. moreover, it is worth emphasizing that this is primarily a trade agreement and all the items such as environmental protection, social rights and so on are adequately addressed in it. so i think there's no point in delaying, we need to give this deal the green light, and my group will certainly do that.
in writing. antimicrobial resistance is the ability of bacteria to survive in the presence of an antimicrobial agent that would normally be sufficient to kill such a micro-organism. microbes are becoming resistant to drugs, and the tremendous advances in medicine that mankind has made over the centuries can be erased very quickly. the reason for this resistance was and is the widespread use of antimicrobials, to which the microbes have adapted so that they are no longer lethal to them and the drug has lost its effectiveness over time. the biggest problem today is multidrug-resistant bacteria, which cause hard-to-treat diseases such as urinary tract infections, pneumonia and tuberculosis. infection by the resistant golden staphylococcus is a big problem. at best, the attack of a weakened organism by multi-drug resistant microorganisms makes treatment very expensive and burdens health budgets, and at worst, it results in outright failure of treatment and sudden death of patients. the development of resistance is accelerated by inappropriate use of antibiotics, use of low-quality antibiotics, and failure to adhere to the prescribed duration of treatment. the excessive use of antibiotics as a preventive measure in animal husbandry is also a new problem. combating antimicrobial resistance can only be achieved by combining prevention and progress. prevention in preventing both the development and spread of disease, in the way antibiotics are used, in the consistent administration of antibiotics only to severe diseases and in the use of quality antibiotics. then there's the progress in the development of new antimicrobials. international cooperation and enhanced exchange of information between member states are essential.
the reporter. - madam president, commissioner, this is actually my first opportunity to meet you in this way and allow me to congratulate you on your appointment. the report we are now discussing is aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises that want to operate outside the single internal market of the european union, that is, export, import, invest. what is a small and medium-sized enterprise? the definition is a bit vague, but according to official figures, the european commission estimates that 99% of all enterprises in the european union are smes, 92% of these 99% are micro enterprises, i.e. enterprises with one to nine employees, 6.7% are small enterprises with up to 50 employees and about 1% are smes with 50 to 250 employees. these enterprises in the european union create about 75% of private sector jobs and have created about 80% of all new jobs over the last five years. it is interesting to note that only 25%, i stress 25%, of these enterprises, that is to say smes, are active outside their home member state and only 13% of them export to markets outside the european union. why is that? there are two basic problems. one of them is access to information. it has been shown that one of the most pressing problems faced by these smes is access to information. up-to-date exchange rate data, legal certainty, labour law and the possibility of financing their exports are essential for these enterprises. secondly, this is the second problem, for these companies, it is also important to have access to capital and proper financial support for trade. i must say that the european commission is active in this respect, of course it does not neglect what it is supposed to do, it does not neglect supporting small and mediumsized enterprises, it creates programmes for them. however, the aim of this report is to show that there are still other options. one such option is the possible introduction of a european union export-import facility, which should take advantage of existing trade and finance support already available in some member states and share existing best practices and government practices aimed at improving access to finance for these small businesses. i'd like to emphasize one thing. we are not seeking to create any new budgetary chapter in this report, we are not seeking to create any new office, so the cost of administration or the cost of the european union budget is zero in this case. what we want is for national strategies and european strategies to work together, to complement each other, to work in synergy, and to enable smes to improve their access to finance, to information and to export to markets outside europe. let me say that in committee this report has received a fairly substantial amount of support, 23 members voting in favour, only one against and two abstentions. i appreciate it very much, i appreciate the work of all the shadow reporters. i would like to commend the international trade committee's approach to this issue, and i would like to thank everyone here, even if they are not present. i would also like to thank our adviser, yolanda mungeng, who has contributed a great deal to the report, and i would like to believe that this report will be received positively by the european parliament tomorrow.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs in particular for their work, which was not easy. this is also borne out by the fact that attempts at harmonization have been under way since the 1960s. despite the lingering problems in the area of language and in the judicial settlement of patent disputes, most member states (25 states) have joined the compromise under enhanced cooperation. of course, any compromise means that not all the member states of the european union can be satisfied 100% of the time. i regard the text put to the vote as a step forward and a simplification in this area. the financial aspect of the matter must also be stressed. if the new rules come into force, there should be high savings in patent validation in the signatory countries. i understand the cypriot presidency, which would like to see this issue resolved before the end of its term. however, from a procedural point of view, it would be appropriate to wait for the court's judgment in this area.
mr president, commissioner barnier has said that he would like to be the last commissioner in this area. because i know him and i know how he works, i wish him well, and of course i wish the rapporteur, mr rapkay, well. but i wish it especially to all smes, because by adopting the package we have taken the first step, which is to reduce the cost of patent validation. it's a huge jump, but it's still going to cost 800 euros more than in the us. once the regulation is passed, we'll have a much harder task ahead of us. the commission is also proposing to make european patents accessible in order to enable the rapid dissemination of patent information among inventors, researchers and smes. it will therefore be important to ensure the immediate publication of patents, including their high-quality, i stress high-quality, machine translations. only high-quality and rapidly available patent information can have the economic effect it needs. i believe that the single european patent protection will prove its worth very quickly and will convince those countries which have not joined enhanced cooperation to change their position.
madam president, commissioner, the adoption of the european patent has reached its final stage. i believe that the grant of a patent will really help to increase the competitiveness of european companies. i have also received supporting opinions from our chamber of commerce, which also supports this decision. but the very adoption of a european patent is a first step for me. i consider it important to put this standard into practice. therefore, to meet the expectations of genuine support for both research and business, administrative simplicity and also the respect of patent rights abroad must be ensured. we have already seen that even well-intentioned legislative standards have been followed by an increase in administration, which has ultimately led to a negative outcome of the whole project. i hope that will not be the case with the european patent.
in writing. − i supported the proposal for a regulation establishing enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection, by rapporteur bernhard rapkay, because i believe that the european patent is absolutely essential for the development of the single internal market. it will help to develop innovation and strengthen the competitiveness of european businesses that we all call for. the proposal adopted should therefore be welcomed as a european added value.
in writing. − i have long supported the creation of an eu patent and i am pleased that we are moving closer to its implementation this week following the vote in the european parliament. the european economy needs stimulus and increased competitiveness. in particular, the union patent represents a reduction in registration costs of 80% compared to today, which will stimulate investment in innovation and science by business. i welcome the establishment of funds to provide financial assistance for the translation of patent applications for smes or universities. i support the establishment of a single european patent court as this will remove legal uncertainty with fragmented interpretation and will speed up enforcement. i only regret that the eu patent is created through enhanced cooperation, where the two large states remained uninvolved. the single european patent protection will encourage the creativity of european companies to better compete in the global market. however, i hope that this step will soon be followed by similar efforts to harmonise copyright and that a single european copyright code will be established in the future.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that after long delays parliament will finally vote on the eu-colombia trade agreement. the preparation of this agreement was preceded by several trips to bogotá. i attended one of them and was convinced that, despite the difficulties the colombian government has with the farc pseudo-partisan movement, it has made great progress in meeting the requirements formulated by the european union. i welcome the fact that not only the right wing in parliament but also a substantial part of the left voted in favour of the agreement, as was requested, among other things, at the group meeting.
mr president, in the current economic situation in the european union, we cannot do anything but act responsibly on budgetary matters. the last thing the european union needs now is a budgetary interim. on the contrary, we need a proper budget for 2013. i welcome the compromise agreement on amendment no 6 to this year's budget, as it will ensure the financing of the actions carried out. i agree with those who call for better monitoring of the spending of money from the european budget, because i do not recall such a large replenishment of resources in recent years. i also agree in principle with the parameters of the 2013 budget. the commission, the council and parliament must agree and now is not the time for any further delay. i do not agree, however, that we should introduce a system of european union own resources. the current system is functional and should be maintained.
mr president, the current air traffic management situation is causing congestion at some european union airports. on the one hand, the capacity of individual airports is being increased, while a new method of air traffic management is being modified, using the results of the sesar programme. it is nevertheless appropriate to adapt the rules on the provision of slots at european union airports. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 june 2013 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2013. the guidelines seek to take account of both the public interest and the requirements of airlines and airport managers. the specifics of slots are seasonality. the discussion on the various parts of the directive, alongside the introduction of the european coordinator function, focused on technical issues and on strengthening the transparency of slot allocation and the independence of the national coordinators. after consulting the experts, i consider the result to be a good and applicable regulation and i thank the rapporteur. the gue/ngl group supports this regulation. just a note on what my predecessor, van dalen, said here. the unionists are obviously not your constituents, so remember that the next time you're not elected.
in writing. the so-called airport package contains three legislative proposals concerning the rules for the use of slots, the protection of local residents from aircraft noise and the conditions for the provision of ground handling services at airports. the first proposal from the commission aims in particular to increase the transparency of airtime allocation and to improve competition. in particular, i welcome the possibility of allocating part of the revenues from airport time trading to improving airport infrastructure and enhancing passenger services. i will also support common rules to reduce noise at airports and their surroundings. however, the draft terms and conditions for the provision of ground handling services at airports should be returned to the relevant committees for reconsideration. the higher liberalisation advocated in the draft report will not in itself bring about a better quality and, moreover, does not sufficiently guarantee social rights, including the working conditions of airport staff.
for the ecr group. mr president, the group of the european conservatives and reformists is of the opinion that we respect the free decision of the 11 member states which have decided to use the institute of enhanced cooperation and to introduce on their territory this tax we are discussing here. at the same time, however, we insist that these eleven member states respect the right of others who choose not to do so, because that is their free choice. unlike the advocates of the financial transaction tax, we do not believe that banks and financial institutions are the primary causes of the economic and financial crisis. these are long-standing and decades-long mistakes made by member states and their governments, promising voters something they could not deliver and had to borrow from the banks to make up for their promises. so we do not accept what is today mistakenly considered a cause and what is considered an effect. we still reject the idea that the financial transaction tax is some new resource, that there is some new money that no one has ever known about and now we've suddenly discovered it. it's the same money that's being taken out of the taxpayers' pockets. that it has a different name today, that it has a different form today, what we call it today, that's certainly true, but it's still the same money. you know, we are concerned that the institute of enhanced cooperation will be used in the future, perhaps even abused, to the extent that when it is not possible to find consensus in a wider set of states, this instrument will be used. this will lead to a multi-speed europe. we're not afraid of the name, we've been defending it for years, it's just surprising that you, who disliked us for it for years, are using it so vehemently today.
in writing. at first sight, it may seem that there is no need for any discussion in the case of animal protection during transport. as early as 2002, the european commission's scientific committee issued a report 'animal welfare during transport' which states that animal transport should be as short as possible. in march this year, parliament approved a written declaration introducing a limit of 8 hours for the transport of slaughter animals within the european union. more than a million europeans have signed up to 8hours, making it one of the largest campaigns against animal cruelty in history. in addition, animal protection is firmly enshrined in the tfeu. parliament should reflect on the above and, in particular, not change its position once it has decided on the same matter. it should fully support the introduction of a maximum eight-hour limit, thus sending a clear signal to the commission to act quickly on this issue and to prepare legislation to end the transport of live animals for several days to slaughter and fattening. instead, we're debating the non-legislative report as if it were the final stage of the process. if we don't support the eight-hour limit during the vote, i can only see it as ignoring our constituents. and i'm sure they'll feel the same way.
in writing. eu countries provided public funding to banks of around eur 4,5 billion between 2008 and 2011. this aid helped to prevent bank failures and the collapse of the economy. despite this huge outlay from european taxpayers, the question of how to approach large european banks that are in trouble or could be taken over has still not been resolved, given the economic situation in the eu. the interbank market is still not fully functioning, bank lending is falling, and the economy is in recession. the european commission's present proposals for a banking union are designed to help address these problems. in this context, i support the idea of a banking union and, in particular, effective control and regulation of the european banking sector, so that the burden of financial sector losses is not borne by european taxpayers again. at the same time, however, i see the potential dangers in relation to non-euro area countries and the need to take account of their interests and concerns about the stability of the financial sector in the context of building a banking union.
in writing. the eu's current economic problems can only be solved by further strengthening integration, not by weakening or even splitting it. the eu is essentially a single market for all eu member states, not just the euro area. unfortunately, this view is not yet shared by all eu member states, including the one i know best. as a result, not everyone is keen to participate in the search for a way out of the crisis towards further deepening european integration. an example is the czech president's continued reluctance to sign the amendment to the lisbon treaty allowing the creation of the european stability mechanism (esm). the banking union is the precondition for achieving a real and economically efficient governance of the european financial sector, which, through its irresponsible behaviour, caused the deepest economic crisis since the second world war. in other words, there is a solution based on deeper european integration. the eu leaders have made it clear that the euro area cannot afford to be held back in this respect, because there is too much at stake, namely the fate of the single currency. opponents of joint supervision are creating the conditions for a multi-speed europe. i believe that this is not only unreasonable but also completely contrary to the interests and objectives of european integration, which is to unite our entire continent. it records the actions of our president, vaclav klaus.
in writing. − after a difficult negotiation on the 2012 and 2013 budgets, there has been a slight increase in the budget, which i certainly welcome. i believe that the budget approved will be used mainly for measures to grow the european economy. the compromise, with an increase of eur 6 billion for 2012 and eur 3 billion for 2013, shows that all parties had to backtrack.
in writing. − the airport package affects both the airport and the airlines, but also the passengers and people living in the vicinity of airports. the proposed liberalisation of the market for delivery services is a step in the right direction, as it should lead to cheaper and better quality services. as i do not agree with the majority view of the house, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. - the airport package affects both the airport and the airlines, but also the passengers and people living in the vicinity of airports. the revision of the allocation of airport times should reduce the preference of national carriers, which will also be felt by passengers of low-cost airlines. i therefore abstained in the vote, in view of the majority opinion of the parliament.
in writing. − the airport package affects both the airport and the airlines, but also the passengers and people living in the vicinity of airports. the reduction in noise is felt by all those who live near airports and are thus often exposed to excessive noise. i have therefore supported measures to reduce noise.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for enhanced cooperation on the introduction of a financial transaction tax, because the potential of the financial transaction tax as an eu own resource is impressive. the european commission estimates that if two thirds of the financial transaction tax revenue were to be allocated to the eu budget, national contributions based on gross national income could be reduced by up to 50%.
the draftsman of the committee on development . - mr. president, we were here this afternoon to award the sakharov prize. two years ago, we gave the same award to cuban dissident guillermo fariñas. unfortunately, the award ceremony itself had to be held without his presence. when i visited guillermo fariñas personally at his home in santa clara some time after the sakharov prize was awarded, he thanked me for thinking of him in europe. unfortunately, he added, in the months since the award itself, no one from the european parliament had contacted him to try to hand him the financial reward associated with the sakharov prize. i don't know, and i hope that since our meeting, the situation has changed and someone from the leadership of the parliament has already contacted him and handed him the reward. why am i saying this today? in defending human rights in the world, it is not enough to talk about them, to give or even to receive various awards and prizes. first of all, it is necessary to respect human rights consistently, to persistently promote and stick to our principles and principles, even when it is humiliating for us.
mr president, we are debating human rights at a time when the european union has won the nobel peace prize. yes, we can rightly be satisfied, because at present the territory of our states has been free of conflict and war for a long time. what should concern us, however, is that fighting and armed conflict are right outside our door. we should therefore be open about the fact that we are not doing very well in promoting human rights and peace outside our own territory. how else can we assess the continuing escalation of the conflict in syria or the continued repression of the opposition in iran when we ourselves are unable to agree on an effective approach to ending the violence? i am sure we can all agree that human rights are the cornerstone of the european union. the treaties also require us to act in accordance with the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms. we should therefore look for ways to bring human rights and peace into our foreign policies.
it is rare for a text submitted to the european parliament to be as one-sided as this recommendation. he said russia could be included among the eu's strategic partners, provided it shared and upheld the core values on which the eu was founded. these include democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity. it is a pity that the council of europe monitoring reports do not deal with the sad situation in the european union states, such as the cases of laws that, among others, in the baltic states, dictate the interpretation of history, the czech polishing law, the rise of neo-nazi parties and their successes in some eu countries, etc. the icing on this stinking cake is the lack of recognition of the rights of russian-speaking minorities and the shocking fact of the existence of non-citizens (stateless persons) in some eu states. if the russian duma passes a resolution that even slightly resembles this proposal, it will mean that the negotiators of both sides will not have a chance to draft a new agreement. the result may be a shift in the orientation of russian foreign and energy policy priorities towards the south and east. if the author is interested in this outcome, then he can certainly meet with success. but then i would suggest changing the title of the ep's motion for a resolution to 'recommendation not to conclude any new eu-russia agreement'.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, commissioner, today we are discussing the situation in a country of 46 million people, a country which has a very clever, smart, educated population and which is of strategic importance both to us and to its eastern neighbour, russia. we recognise that ukraine is a european country, has a european identity and shares a common history and common values with the countries of the european union. this is also the reason why we went ahead with the association agreement and with the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement. however, there are at least two issues which stand in the way of signing this agreement, which is very important both for ukraine and for the eu. the first, of course, is the case of julia timoshenko. so we would like to make, on behalf of the socialists and democrats, a strong appeal to the ukrainian authorities to find, together with the european parliament envoys alexander kwaśniewski and pat cox, a reasonable and just solution to the timoshenko case. we urge the ukraine government to respect and implement the final decisions by the european court of human rights on the ongoing case of julia timoshenko. today we are also discussing the elections of 28 october in ukraine. there was some progress, but there were also many steps backwards, unfortunately. i do not have time to go into detail; these steps are described in our report. what we welcome is the decision of the verkhovna rada to create a parliamentary inquiry committee to investigate those problems, and we hope that the ukrainian authorities, both in parliament and in the government, will fully implement the recommendations by the osce/odihr. the commissioner spoke about three levels – three conditions. we are fully behind that view, behind that strategy. yes, we socialists and democrats wish to sign – in vilnius at the latest – the association agreement and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement. as has been already said, the ball is on the side of our ukrainian friends. we hope that together we will make it, because it is important both for ukraine and, of course, for the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, my group, the socialists and democrats, fully supports the future accession of albania into the eu. today we are discussing the progress report. albania has made huge progress over the last 12 months. this progress is based on cooperation between and among the major political forces in albania. without that cooperation between the government and opposition, this progress would not be possible. so i would like to call on our albanian friends, both in government and opposition, to continue along this path. without this cooperation, there would be no further progress in those areas that have been mentioned both by the minister and the commissioner. what will be crucial next year are the elections: not so much the outcome, but the electoral process itself, both before the elections and during the elections. in the last elections – national and regional – there were many problems. what is important is that this time, in june 2013, progress is made on the electoral process. finally, let me mention the issue of regional cooperation. up to now, albania has played a very positive and constructive role as far as the region is concerned, with reference to kosovo and fyrom (macedonia). unfortunately, as our rapporteur mr chountis mentioned, recently there were some noises in tirana which pointed to a more nationalistic route. we do not think that is the right course, either for albania or for the region. again we would like to urge both the forces in government and in opposition to refrain from such rhetoric. albania is a crucial country for us. it is very important. as i said, up to now the country has played a very constructive role. we hope that the country will continue on this path, in other words, on the path towards eu accession.
mr president, i must say frankly that i was not a supporter of the european union agency for fundamental rights. this is because the council of europe has been active in this area for a long time. i consider this organization to be useless. but if we have any eu institutions, they must operate in an environment of legal certainty. i therefore ask that we not be caught by the council's decision, which seeks to ensure that the scope of the agency's activities is established in a clear and legally unquestionable manner, in accordance with the principle of legal certainty. i would add, from a substantive point of view, that i see no reason for extending the agency's remit to the area of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. in my view, there is certainly no lack of institutions and mechanisms in europe today to protect the rights of individuals against the will of the authorities of the member states. in addition, the agency may, under existing rules, address any current police and judicial cooperation issue when requested to do so by the council, the commission or the european parliament.
colleagues, you know that the weather is not very good and you would like to get back home safely, so please sit down. i shall start with an announcement (for details on the announcement: see minutes). ******
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to announce that the court’s ruling has not officially been received by parliament. it means that there will be no discussion just now. i would like to inform you that discussion on our calendar will be at the plenary sitting on 14 january.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
mr president, i would like to make an oral amendment to amendment 3. i just want to add the words ‘encourages albania and’. this means that the text would now read: ‘reiterates its conviction that borders in the western balkans should be fully respected, and encourages albania and all parties concerned to refrain from any actions which could trigger regional tensions’.
as this oral amendment has been adopted, the socialists and democrats withdraw amendment 2.
as far as i know, there will be information next week and it will then also be given to the parliament.
the explanation of vote is over.
ladies and gentlemen, allow me to invite you to the havel heart lighting on monday, which will be located at the european parliament building in brussels. we are commemorating the one-year anniversary of the death of the first semi-western czechoslovak president, who was a great promoter of europe and who contributed to the reunification of europe.
in writing. - after reading the draft on the negotiation of a new agreement with russia, i couldn't help feeling that we were back in the cold war. i haven't read a text in a long time that lacks the slightest bit of empathy, sounds arrogant and arrogant. if a similar group, such as the one that drafted the text, is sitting in moscow and dictating recommendations in a similar way, there is no hope of reaching any common agreement. what if this group proposes that the eu must first respect the human rights of the so-called non-citizens in latvia and estonia? or if he insists that the eu member states sitting on the security council must take their obligations seriously and not bomb yugoslavia, libya or iraq because it is not in accordance with international law? or will he insist on justice for julian assange? in response to point 1 (a) which states that 'russia must be allowed to restructure its economy', will it insist first on the stabilisation of the euro and the settlement of sovereign debts not only in greece, spain and italy but elsewhere? i think that the next time a group is set up to make similar recommendations, it should be people who have a responsible assessment of the eu's needs and possibilities and an understanding of the country to be dealt with. then they'll build on what we have in common today so that it can be expanded tomorrow.
in writing. the steel industry plays a key role in the european economy, which is reflected in many other related sectors and in the eu's overall competitiveness. global market pressure has recently caused a decrease in production and subsequent capacity reductions in this area. this is having a significant impact on many eu countries and regions, including the moravian-silesian region that i represent. in the current climate, similar problems need to be addressed at the transnational level. the group of the party of european socialists therefore decided to propose a resolution calling for an immediate solution to this situation. in it, the european parliament calls on the commission to draw up the promised action plan as soon as possible and to include key elements, including, for example, investments in research and development of new technologies, strengthening energy efficiency and resource use policies or the potential use of financial instruments at eu level (european social fund and european globalisation adjustment fund). i fully support this initiative and will therefore vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
