the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: before i give you my congratulations, i'd like to thank your predecessors. the presidents of the european parliament whom i have met, such as jerzy buzek, hans-gert pöttering and mr borrell fontelles, have always found their own profile, which has always been appropriate to the challenges of the present time. i would also like to thank the other candidates today, because they have of course shown once again how democracy in the house works. nevertheless, the majority you have now won, martin schulz, is a qualified majority. there are good reasons for that. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but i would like to ask the house to take a decision on the matter. (applause from the centre) you 'll remember . when you asked me how i would feel if you became president of parliament, i said: 'how do you come up with the idea?' i could not have imagined that, martin schulz as the first representative, even diplomatically then constricted at the head of this house. i can imagine that now. first of all, i would like to express the hope that you will not give up your special personal ability and that you will not give in to the diplomacy, the diplomatic manners that are certainly often necessary, but will take the very angularity and the canthi of the new office with you, which have often made it so difficult for you to do so, and that this angularity and canthi will then be reflected in the confrontation with commission president barroso or with herman van rompuy, with mrs merkel and mr sarkozy. (applause from the centre) the promise you made in your personal campaign had something almost touchingly naive about it at times: if this "all for one" works, then "one for all" will work too. the conditions have been well created by this parliament today. but now we are faced with a conflict, and it must be shown that not only is the new president of parliament prepared to take a different path in the conflict, but that this parliament is also capable of upholding the things it has formulated as objectives. the example that comes to mind is the conflict with viktor orbán. the debate on the media law went wrong at a time when much could have been achieved in hungary, because parliament left it to the commission to sort out the problems. this must not happen again in the current conflict with hungary! and because the name of yulia tymoshenko has been mentioned here, and i have also applauded her, it cannot be that in hungary, a member state of the european union, at a time when citizens in russia are turning against directed democracy, at a time when ukrainians are becoming desperate, hungary is abandoning the democratic values of the european union. ladies and gentlemen, we must work with the institutions and our newly elected president to prevent this with all our means! (applause from the centre) martin schulz, you are taking office at a time that i think is even more difficult than i imagined before christmas. i would not have thought that the last crisis summit would have been without any impact on the way things were going. i have just returned from japan and i have seen how the yen, the currency of a country in very serious trouble, has gone up by a rocket, a comet, against the euro. this is all not normal anymore. you don't have to be critical of the rating agencies, but the fact that politics has so little influence, that influencers from big banks, that rating agencies have more influence than politics in europe, that's not normal, and you have to be calm and consistent. i do not think that the whole parliament is now made up of social democrats, but many of the ideas which have been expressed in this house by a large majority in the face of the crisis must be upheld to the end in the face of the council and the commission. we cannot always compromise before our ideas have been heard. i wish you, martin schulz, much success! i know you're gonna be uncomfortable. i can say on behalf of my group that we will certainly be an uncomfortable group. and i would like to say to the women of this parliament at this point: following simone veil and mrs fontaine, it would be very nice if we, as the women of this parliament, were to prepare from now on not to congratulate the next president in the next legislature, but to congratulate another president here. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the continuation of the election of the vice-presidents of parliament. i must inform those who do not yet know that in the second round of the vice-presidential elections yesterday, no candidate received the required absolute majority of the votes cast, so that a third round of elections is required this morning. in this third round, a simple majority is sufficient to be elected.
mr atkins, if you had been present last night, you would have heard the detailed explanations. the rules of procedure of the european parliament provide that the vice-president shall be elected by a qualified majority of the votes cast in the first or second round of voting. since no candidate achieved this majority yesterday, we must hold a third round of elections. the number of candidates shall not exceed the number of vacant seats. i therefore propose that we now declare the candidates elected by a roll call. the order of the vice-presidents is then determined by the number of votes cast for them. does anyone object to this procedure? then all 14 are now chosen.
since we have as many candidates as there are seats, we can announce, if no one objects, that all 14 candidates are now elected. the order of precedence, from first to fourteenth vice-president, is determined by the result of the elections. that means we have to vote either way.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. why is it impossible for you to tell us the result of yesterday's test? i was told we could get it electronically. i would like to know what the result was yesterday, since we have the right to be guided by it. we need this.
i read the result to the house last night. you can read the result on the intranet. if you'd been here last night, you would have seen the results. (the sitting was suspended at 9.30 a.m. and resumed at 10 a.m.)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the programme of the danish presidency. i should like to begin by warmly welcoming the prime minister, mrs helle thorning-schmidt, who has been a member of this house for a long time. welcome to the prime minister's office. (applause from the centre)
in agreement with mr barroso, president of the commission, and because there are a great many colleagues who are anxiously awaiting the results of the vice-presidential elections, i shall now briefly announce the results of the vice-presidential elections. there is a procedural reason for this. only after the results have been announced and the election has been accepted will parliament be fully constituted in its leadership. so i ask for your understanding if i put this in for a moment. all 14 applicants have been selected. the order i'm announcing now is the order of the vice presidents in the second half of our term. that means the first one is first vice president and so on up to 14th place. i therefore read the results in the order of votes. number of votes cast: 672 the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the candidates received the following votes: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i said all the candidates are elected. in that order, they also hold the offices of vice-president in the president's place. i therefore ask whether any of the candidates mentioned do not accept the election? obviously, that's not the case. that's all of them. i congratulate you, ladies and gentlemen. the composition of the new bureau shall be communicated to the presidents of the institutions of the european union. if we could perhaps leave the congratulatory chorus to the group meetings tonight, i would be deeply obliged.
the next item is the continuation of the debate on the programme of the danish presidency.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i am not going to go into the details of the matter. it's an honor to have you here. you know what reputation you have. my group - particularly because you come from a red-red-green government in denmark - naturally has very special expectations of you, not only because of your political background and this refreshing new start in denmark, but also because you, with your feminine-scandinavian determination, are a new force for us in the acute european conflict. i could imagine that your charming, sober commitment to politics, which i noticed in copenhagen, is also an instrument to challenge your female counterpart from germany once again in crisis politics. because that's what we expect of you. we expect you to take a critical look at the treaty we have been discussing since the last so-called crisis summit. we believe that this treaty is not only a detour in the politics of crisis, but also a victory for european democracy. it not only excludes the european parliament, it has not yet sufficiently included the national parliaments. that is not acceptable. i also believe that the euro summits, for example, which are now to be held in the informal future, are difficult from denmark's point of view because they shift the balance of power in the council in an unfair way. so much for that complicated contracting technique. i believe, however, that such democratic issues are of considerable importance for the continued functioning of the european union. the substance of this treaty has rightly been criticised here in the house by the previous speakers. the completely unilateral approach to stability has not solved the crisis but has exacerbated it, and i can hardly stand it any longer that we have to re-establish in every plenary session that we are deeper in the crisis than before the last crisis summit. this morning the world bank made headlines by insisting that europe is plunging into crisis and europe is dragging the rest of the world into crisis. how long are you going to keep this up? as the danish presidency of the council, you have a number of things in your programme which suggest that you want to do things differently. do it now! but you should start to deal with this now, and not wait until the middle of the council presidency. these investment programmes to revive the economy must be now. your ideas on climate protection, brilliantly prepared by connie hedegaard, your ideas on energy efficiency - these could be the job engines in the european union. but you don't have time to waste. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i fully agree that we must deal with eurobonds or the redemption funds and we must not put this issue off any longer. let me say a word about the role of the european central bank in this debate: it is still a big problem that we think we can have and defend a common currency without taking the step towards a truly jointly functioning european central bank or without empowering the efsf. this too has been put forward in prayerful terms by many speakers here. it is being taken up and extended by the rating agency, so to speak, and it has not yet had sufficient consequences either in the council or in the major member states. my plea to you, dear former colleague, dear prime minister, dear president of the council: do better as a woman than your predecessors. do not wait, act now in accordance with your political convictions in the council. hungary - which will be discussed this afternoon - is a prime example of how the council and the commission have let a problem go, moderated it away and are now paying the bitter price for the development in hungary. what is happening in hungary has been shared by the commission and the council during the hungarian presidency. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 14 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. hungary is a country with considerable economic problems. the government of viktor orbán has found no way out of hungary's difficult economic situation. he has instead chosen the path of propagating and implementing national chauvinist strategies in hungary to distract from the weaknesses of his own government's policies. i am in favour of solidarity with the hungarians and with all the other european member states which are facing economic problems. but i believe that solidarity is not a value that can be called upon à la carte. in the european union, all values apply at the same time, not just solidarity, and the rest can be forgotten, as the orbán government wants. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to congratulate the danish prime minister on her pro-european programme. this is something completely new for us from the danish point of view and we will do our utmost to actively support you in this programme, both in the implementation of individual measures for example in financial market regulation and in your efforts to make the community method, not the intergovernmental method, a success you have explicitly emphasized this as the benchmark of european policy. we are with you in taking these initiatives, madam prime minister. i would add one thing: lead denmark out of the europe-skeptic corner! denmark has an opt-out clause in the eurozone. you have the chance not only to stabilise the euro, but to reverse this previous danish opinion and to take an active step towards the euro. let me add that we support your programme. but i've read several times in the announcements that you want to take a step towards turkey. you didn't mention that today. i would like to ask you, madam prime minister, to do us a favour during your six-month presidency and convince turkey to abandon its blockade of cyprus, which will be your successor in the presidency, with a view to the next presidency. that would be a success with regard to turkey. if turkey wants to continue blocking cyprus, then i would have to say at the end of your six-monthly report that you may not have been able to complete the task at this point. please take care of it, we're behind you!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. madam prime minister, i want to start by thanking you. as soon as you took office, you suspended the previous government's idea of reintroducing border controls between denmark and germany and between denmark and sweden. i thought it was a very good decision. my group wants an open europe. this was good news for the citizens of the border region. it was also good news for businesses, especially for the freight forwarders, on both sides of the border. thank you very much for this, it is a really good measure! the second point i want to make, and i agree with mr langen, is that we must defend the community method. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at any rate, what we have read about mr sarkozy, what he said to you. if this is the new tone of the intergovernmental method, then it is another argument in favour of the community method. but then there's one point that's important. you write in the priorities for the presidency that you want a strong, unified external presence of the european union. i would like you to use the opportunity of this council presidency to start a discussion on whether you really want to maintain your opt-out from the european security and defence policy. it is strange that everyone in the european defence agency is involved except denmark. i'd really appreciate it if you'd use this. the last point: my group is indeed seeking, together with the greens and the social democrats, to bring proceedings under article 7 (1) of the treaty against hungary. the council is then obliged to make recommendations, and article 7 (1) is only about recommendations. i encourage you to put this on the agenda, to organise the necessary four-fifths of the member states! it's the only way to get through hungary.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. first of all, i'm very pleased to meet you. because this presidency is giving me double the pleasure. firstly, denmark has a woman in the leadership, and secondly, she is also a member of the right party. in the light of the fact that 2012 is the 'european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations', i welcome the initiative of the danish presidency to promote the participation of older people in the labour market. the required strengthening of gender equality will also have a positive impact on european labour markets. this is an urgent task, particularly in the light of demographic developments in europe. the younger generation will not forget either. young people who leave the education system too early will be the focus. the european parliament has shown what it can do. in the negotiations on the so-called six-pack, we have ensured that all measures protect the autonomy of the collective bargaining system. the european parliament will continue to do so in many areas in the future. fiscal policy must finally be put in order and financial market regulation must remain at the top of the agenda. the european parliament will work with the danish presidency, led by the socialist prime minister, helle thorning-schmidt, to find solutions to these problems.
the next item is the voting time. before we go to the vote, i have a request to make to you: in view of the many elections and the agenda as it has now been decided, i ask that the explanations of vote be deferred to thursday. is there any objection to that? there are no objections, so it is decided.
i'm hearing from the session services that there's a lot of different information out there. they say there are all kinds of languages. but we'll make sure that all the language versions are available later.
mr cohn-bendit, you are right. now i have to say, the session services are telling me right now it's their fault. that's not true. it's all my fault. i can tell you that if i had been the chairman of the group of the european people's party, i would have reacted exactly as mr cohn-bendit did. i've been informed that it's not the faction leaders who are talking. so, it's a real quality boost now. mr brok, if you will stop talking to mrs tymoshenko on the phone, you can give us your speech now.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it would be nice if we could talk to mrs tymoshenko on the phone and she was free. (parliament adopted the resolution) mr president, i would like to thank you and your predecessor, but also the chairmen of the political groups, for the support we have had so far for the negotiations. we have had to realise that this was not conducted very amicably by all sides in the council at all stages. but we feel that after the last meeting last thursday and from what we're hearing, things could be going in the right direction. but, of course, given the time that has passed, we have some suspicion that this will be the case, and that is why we are waiting for the next draft to come in tomorrow. i would like to make it clear to my group, and i think also to the two colleagues who will be saying something in a moment: we do not consider this treaty to be our first choice. it would be better if everything were in the community treaty from the outset. the second is that this treaty must not lead to a division of europe. that is why it must be drafted in such a way that the 26 countries which want to participate can also participate. the third point is that the rights of the european parliament and the community institutions must be safeguarded, and it must be clear that any implementation that becomes legislation is in accordance with the rules of the community treaty with the codecision procedure and that we are not getting a dual legal basis within the european union. ladies and gentlemen, we must make it clear that saving alone will not solve the situation. this includes growth and structural change. this is also the position of the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have a common duty here, which we must perform according to common rules. since the treaty is rightly due to expire in five years at the latest and be incorporated into the community treaty - this position of the european parliament is accepted - we should ensure that there are no new institutions which make integration difficult. the community institutions are the only institutions that apply. the euro summit must make it clear that all the contracting parties who are in the euro, who want to be in the euro and who will be in the euro are there. we don't want to split up here either, so all 26 have to have the same right. we want a united europe!
president of the commission. − mr president, today we are discussing this international agreement as part – and only as a specific part – of a wide-ranging and comprehensive approach for stronger discipline, increased convergence and reinforced coordination and governance, particularly in the euro area. if we want to ensure the viability of our common currency, and if we want to prevent in future the kind of crisis europe is experiencing today, this is fundamental. we must also keep in mind that this agreement is an essential element of a larger package of action to respond to the sovereign debt crisis, including a strengthened and anticipated european stability mechanism, which is urgently needed for the stability and coherence of the euro area. the commission has always considered that these new norms should be enshrined in the current treaties, in the lisbon treaty. for the reasons you all know, because unanimity between all member states was not possible, that could not happen. the heads of state and government therefore took the decision to proceed with this international agreement or, as some prefer to say, international treaty. the commission left no ambiguity about the priority being an agreement that respects a certain number of principles, namely: the primacy of european union law, the necessity of democratic accountability, the importance of the european institutions and the need to integrate the agreement into the current european treaties. these principles are, i believe, shared by the european parliament. the parliament and commission delegations to the negotiations are standing firmly together in defence of those principles. working in close cooperation, our delegations to the negotiations are achieving important progress. first: together, we are firmly opposing attempts to develop new institutional set-ups. instead, we have enshrined the principle that the european institutions will act on the basis of the eu treaties, not as simple representatives of member states. second: together, we are rejecting drafting that could have established parallel intergovernmental coordination of economic policy outside the european union framework. third: together, we are insisting on language acknowledging the need for the european union secondary legislation to implement key elements of the package agreed at the last european council. fourth: together, we are proposing to include a strong integration clause in the draft which requires that, within five years at the most, the necessary steps are taken to integrate the substance of the agreement into the legal framework of the union. however, only last week the commission was concerned by some choices made in the latest draft which could only lead to irritation and to division. as a result, at the meeting of the working group last thursday, the commission tabled amendments to ensure that the text is institutionally acceptable. they largely coincide with key points made by the delegates of this house. we are insisting, first, on a correct clause safeguarding primacy of eu law and its full application, in particular that of eu procedures whenever the adoption of secondary law is required. second, that the member states express their readiness to support a commission proposal that will strengthen the ‘six-pack’ by introducing, for euro area member states, a new range of medium-term objectives in line with the limits of the agreement. third, that the text reflects an adequate openness of euro summits to all member states and recognises the position of the president of this parliament. last but not least, that cooperation between national parliaments and the european parliament must operate within the european union treaties in accordance with protocol no 1, avoiding any impression that a number of competing assemblies at european level will emerge over time, thus weakening the european parliament. the commission delegation will continue to participate constructively but vigilantly in this process. we remain confident that reasonable solutions can be found. the principles we are defending are the principles of democracy and accountability. they are the principles on which the european union is founded and they reflect the right and proper role of the institutions. they are the principles that insist on the integrity of the entire european union and all its member states. the euro area must be strengthened, yes, but not at the expense of the wider union. the introduction of parallel structures would embed divisions that could jeopardise the union and also jeopardise the single market and therefore the future viability of the euro itself. as we believe in the euro, and as we believe that the euro should be the currency of the whole european union, we must not introduce new governance and structures that would lead to a split with member states that intend to join it in the future. all member states who agree with these principles should be associated with our position and i am very grateful to this house, and in particular to the european parliament delegation, for its support in working for this common goal. this agreement, if these rules are respected, can be an important tool in building a solid stability and growth agenda based on the europe 2020 strategy, and also on the road map presented by the commission. noting that, from a legal point of view, this is an intergovernmental agreement, i hope that all member states understand that politically, for its successful ratification and implementation, it needs the support of the european institutions, namely the european commission, the european central bank and of course this european parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we would like to add a further dash of mirror in paragraph 4. i read it because i think we missed it in the wording, but in the debate it became clear that there is agreement. the text of the decision is as follows:
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the votes are closed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just stopped by this morning. i have a group of visitors to attend to. i would ask that another colleague take over this job.
i'm here to announce the results of the first round of the quaestors' election. the vote was 684. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the absolute majority required in the first round is therefore 335 votes. i 'll read you the results . the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal. no candidate received an absolute majority of the votes cast. that is why all five seats are still vacant and a second round of voting is necessary. i assume that all candidates for the office of quaestor will maintain their candidacy. is there anyone here who would like to withdraw their candidacy? that's not the case. then we'll take all these candidates and go to a second round. i propose that we hold this second round of voting by electronic voting. (applause from the centre) (the president gave detailed instructions on the technical procedure for electronic voting, followed by a technical test vote.) (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) i 'll announce the result . the votes cast were 593. the absolute majority is 297. no one has achieved an absolute majority. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. so we need a third ballot, in which the simple majority applies. i have just been informed that the third ballot will be held at 8 p.m. tonight. (protest in the chamber) i suggest we vote now. (parliament adopted the resolution) ) the third ballot is next. the vote may be opened if all the candidates declare that they will maintain their candidacy. anybody want to not run? they're all running again. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) i announce the result: 600 votes cast. that makes the majority 301. but it's not necessary now. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. i note that the following have been elected: mrs lulling, mr higgins, mrs geringer de oedenberg, mr liberadzki and mr maštálka. any of the chosen ones not accepting the choice? that's not the case. i would like to congratulate all those who have been elected and to state that the bureau of the european parliament has now been elected in full and that we will be constituting it as soon as possible.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the current political developments in hungary.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, today parliament will discuss the situation in hungary, and the presidency welcomes this debate. the presidency is very well aware of the concerns which have been expressed by members of this house over some aspects of the legislation recently adopted in hungary, including the new constitution. let me be absolutely clear: all eu member states must comply with the rules of the treaty. (applause) this goes for hungary as it goes for any other member state. if there are any doubts whether a member state’s laws are in accordance with the eu rules, the commission should examine and analyse the situation thoroughly. this is in the interest of all member states, and that is exactly what the commission has done in hungary. action is being taken. the presidency fully supports the commission’s role as the guardian of the treaties. we appreciate the thorough analysis the commission is undertaking. the concerns that have been raised about the recent developments in hungary must be treated with the seriousness that the situation deserves. we all share a strong interest in hungary living up to its application under eu law and, in the process for determining whether this is or is not the case, being fair and thorough. rule of law cuts both ways. member states’ compliance with eu law must be ensured, but the process must be based on a solid and fact-based analysis and there should be a dialogue with the member state. we therefore welcome the fact that the commission has issued its legal assessment of the hungarian laws. it is on this basis that appropriate decisions and the next steps should be taken, in accordance with our rules. the commission has expressed a number of specific concerns and has taken steps to ensure that the hungarian legislation is brought into accordance with eu law. therefore, it has decided to launch infringement proceedings on three issues: the independence of the national central bank, the retirement age of judges, and the independence of the data protection authority. at the same time, it is sending a wider information request to the hungarian authorities on the issue of the independence of the judiciary. the presidency supports these actions. we of course expect hungary, like any other member state, to comply with the eu treaties and laws and it goes without saying that the respect of eu law, including the treaties and the values enshrined in the treaties, is the basis on which the eu is founded. it is the duty of all member states to act in accordance with these treaties. i therefore expect that hungary will meet the obligation it has accepted as a member of the european union, and i am aware that the prime minister of hungary has sent a letter to the president of the commission. i hope that this letter, and the work being done also in the debate today, will ensure that a solution is found to this very serious situation. (applause)
president of the commission. − mr president, mr minister representing the council presidency, prime minister, distinguished members of the european parliament, i very much welcome the opportunity to take part in this debate today on developments in hungary and to present clearly the commission’s approach and role in this regard. this is an extremely sensitive matter, where i believe we have to be clear on values, firm on principles, fair on method and sensible on communication. the commission has been closely monitoring developments related to the new hungarian constitutional system since the beginning of 2011. we were in contact with the hungarian authorities during the preparation of the draft ‘cardinal laws’ implementing the new constitution – raising our concerns over the compatibility of these laws with european union law. similar concerns, among others, were raised by the european central bank and the international monetary fund. following an initial technical analysis, the commission urged the authorities in hungary to modify the draft laws. unfortunately the hungarian authorities did not take into account all the commission requests. these concerns were then expressed at the highest political levels in december, through two letters from myself to prime minister orbán and letters from commission vice-presidents rehn and reding. moreover, we made it clear that the issue of the independence of the national central bank needs to be addressed before we can start formal negotiations on the requested eu-imf financial assistance. following adoption of the cardinal laws by the hungarian parliament on 30 december, the commission immediately conducted a full and swift legal analysis of the final versions of these laws and their compatibility with the european union treaties. following this legal analysis, the commission yesterday agreed to launch three infringement procedures. we have sent three letters of formal notice relating to the independence of the national central bank, the retirement age of judges and prosecutors and the data protection supervisory authority. the commission has also asked for further explanations concerning the independence of the judiciary. on this issue we expect additional clarifications by the hungarian authorities. should those clarifications not satisfy, or should they fail to provide a proper answer, the commission will not hesitate in taking further action on this very important issue. these decisions reflect the special responsibility of the commission, as the guardian of the treaties, to provide a sound and thorough legal analysis, and its quasi-jurisdictional role in this respect. moreover, these measures are part of a sustained and determined effort by the commission to ensure full observance of european union law by the member states: the letter of the law and also, importantly, the spirit of the law. the proceedings decided on yesterday by the commission will be treated with the highest priority. at this stage, the issue for the commission is mainly one of the application of european union law, and we are doing everything in our power to pursue this in a consistent and objective way. however, i insist that we will not hesitate to take further steps if they are deemed appropriate, depending on the formal and substantive replies we receive from the hungarian authorities. today i received a letter from prime minister orbán, reacting to the three commission decisions. he has indicated to me his intention to modify the relevant legislation and to work with the commission in the coming days in order to find legal solutions to the issues raised. the commission will continue its efforts with the hungarian authorities to explore the various ways of complying with european union law. however, there may be issues at stake that go beyond the matters of european law that have been raised. these other issues should also, i believe, be addressed. the council of europe is currently considering other points of hungarian legislation which are under its remit. the council of europe’s venice commission could play an important role in this respect. both vice-president reding and i have discussed this with secretary-general jagland, who has conveyed his full support for the approach the commission has taken. this leads me to the more political dimension of this situation – something that we are also discussing today in this parliament in its evident capacity as a political body. in fact, beyond the legal aspects, some concerns have been expressed regarding the quality of democracy in hungary, its political culture, the relations between the government and the opposition, and those between the state and civil society. i strongly appeal to the hungarian authorities to respect the very principles of democracy and freedom and to implement them: not only in terms of norms but also in practice and in the political and social life of the country. these are matters where political judgment is more difficult, and sometimes – let us be honest – ideologically polarised. but i believe that all democratic political forces have an interest in working together for the consolidation of a hungarian democracy. (applause) the commission will continue to call for the legislation in question to be modified and made compatible with european law. above all we will continue to urge the hungarian government to act in a responsible democratic manner and in the best interests of all hungarian citizens. in fact, yesterday, on a further matter which raised political issues, vice-president kroes again sent a letter to the hungarian authorities expressing our concerns regarding media freedom. for it is only through a legally stable environment, based on the rule of law, democratic principles and fundamental rights, that the confidence of citizens, partners and investors can be gained and maintained. in times of economic crisis this is more vital than ever – apart from being, of course, a question of democratic principle. it is important, i believe, that the message sent from this debate in the european parliament to the hungarian people is that we want hungary to go on being a respected member of the european union. this should be a debate not against hungary but for hungary and with hungary. we are asking the hungarian authorities to correct points that raise concern. we do not want a shadow of doubt on the democracy of any of our member states. (applause)we have the highest regard for the hungarian people: their history, their culture, their record of fighting a totalitarian regime as embodied in their struggle against soviet troops in 1956. we therefore call on the hungarian government clearly to demonstrate its commitment to the principles of democracy, freedom and the rule of law. it is important to address these political concerns, and i appeal to prime minister orbán to tackle this in a determined and unambiguous way. we believe this to be in the best interests of hungary and of all our european family.
i told you at the beginning of this debate that prime minister orbán had asked to be allowed to speak in the european parliament on the positions he had just presented. i would like to expressly welcome - as i said yesterday - the fact that mr orbán considers this parliament to be the place where the situation in his country and his country's relations with the eu are discussed. i am very grateful to you for that, mr orbán. i think the european parliament is the place where we will certainly see controversial debate on european union policy. so i welcome you to the club.
hungarian prime minister. - mr president, i have to ask you... i am grateful to be here again after six months of the hungarian presidency. it's always a pleasure to speak in a parliament, because no matter what the institutional system, democracy works in parliament, and parliament is the heart of democracy. i think so too, which is why i've been a member of parliament since 1990. i thank president schulz for allowing me to be here today. i am grateful to the danish presidency for not objecting but supporting it, and i am grateful to president barroso for his encouraging words. i came here today, among you, because i have received word that you wish to negotiate about hungary. i thought it only right that i should be at your disposal and let you know firsthand the intentions of the hungarian government. my presence is justified by the current heightened interest surrounding hungary, when the mood is already tense due to the european economic crisis. let me tell you, i'm not surprised by the increased interest surrounding hungary. we've had a major, profound, great and exciting renovation in the last year and a half. the renovation was justified and urgent. in 2010, our country was facing an economic collapse. in our country of 10 million, less than 3 million taxpayers supported the country. more people live off the state than the economy. the operation of paramilitary organisations is not sanctioned by law. our country was on the brink of economic collapse and tragedy. we've done a tremendous job in the last year and a half. this is a job we're proud of. although we still have many serious economic difficulties, for the first time in hungary the budget can be considered a stable budget according to european standards. we're reducing the national debt, our balance of payments is in positive territory. we have outlawed and dismantled paramilitary organisations, which is why all minorities in hungary today enjoy protection, including national minorities, roma and jewish minorities, and the hungarian government will always protect these minorities in the future. in a year and a half, we have drafted a new constitution, 25 fundamental laws, and 339 other laws. in a year and a half, we've created 365 laws. we have implemented structural reforms, reorganized the system of government, the system of local government, the system of public administration, the system of justice, the system of education, the system of health care, the system of taxation and public liability, the system of pensions and the system of social welfare. we restructured everything that generated public debt in hungary. of course, this was accompanied by a sense of interest, lobbying interests, business interests and the interests of large business groups were violated. if you think of the bank tax or the hungarian crisis tax on large companies. we replaced the communist constitution of 1949 with a new constitution, the last of the former occupied countries. i want to make it clear to you that the renewal and reorganization of hungary was based on european principles and european values. we have also drawn on the best practices of the member states of the european union and the basic documents of the european union. with such a scale and pace of transformation, i consider it natural - and everyone in hungary does - that controversial issues should arise. i sent a letter to president barroso today. i expressed the view that the problems raised by the commission could be easily, simply and quickly remedied. and i'm hoping for a quick result from our meeting next week. i would also like to inform the honourable member that none of the paragraphs which the commission has sent us and which have been legally challenged so far, concerns the hungarian constitution. despite what the newspapers say, there was no objection to the text of the hungarian constitution adopted on april 25. we adopted the constitution on april 25 of the previous year. two of the transitional provisions of the constitution have been challenged by the commission, and i am prepared to remedy these two objections to the transitional provisions, but i would like to point out that no one has so far raised any legal doubt about any section of the hungarian constitution. i'm convinced that's fine. ladies and gentlemen, i'm grateful to you for this opportunity. i ask you to be kind and to support the great transformation and reorganisation that we are now completing in hungary in the name of european values in the future. hungary is counting on the support of the european parliament. thank you for your kind attention.
question for the commissioner: mr verhofstadt, i just want to ask you if you are aware that the hungarian constitution contains the best minority rights in europe, whereas the founding members of the eu have no minority rights at all, and if you are aware that the eu charter of fundamental rights is enshrined in the constitution, although there are countries such as the uk which negotiated an opt-out from the charter of fundamental rights under mr blair. how many breach of contract lawsuits do we have every year without an ideological circus like this? (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in the european union we have principles: the independence of the judiciary, the central bank, basic democratic rights. if there are doubts about these fundamental rights, about these principles, then this must be discussed. the right place is here, the european parliament. i would therefore like to expressly thank viktor orbán, the prime minister of hungary, for coming. he wasn't invited. he said, "i'm willing to discuss it because we have nothing to hide". i would also like to emphasize that viktor orbán is here and listening, and many of those who could not contain themselves from the hysteria and the show have obviously already left the room. he's still there. we should acknowledge that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has the task of verifying that these rules are being observed, and it has done so. the hungarian government has already promised on several occasions that it will address these deviations and submit amendments accordingly. that's the facts. if we were to dispense with political hysteria, we could actually talk about the matter objectively. because i haven't heard anything new from the left about the facts today. mr swoboda is standing up and saying that maybe the judiciary is independent. then i hear from prime minister orbán that there was not a single criticism of the constitution, from anyone. i have heard from mr verhofstadt that it is not a question of individual legal details, but of the fundamental question of whether hungary is still a democracy. we, the epp, stand for law and justice. if anyone has criticisms, they must be substantiated in the judicial matters and not put in the space that anyone would act undemocratically. what we're already experiencing over long distances is pure and simple arbitrariness. if i do not like something about the legislation in hungary, i describe it as undemocratic, right-wing, totalitarian. we as the epp will not allow this to pass! let me conclude by saying that i have been working in this parliament since 2004. i had a subject once when slovakia introduced a law banning the hungarian language there. there was the left gathered, who are now so excited, ... (intermittent calls ....) we started it then, and the left gathered here in the house at that time, their social democratic government... (the president cut the speaker off) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
question on the blue card procedure i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. manfred, i have not the slightest doubt about your belief in the rule of law. today, i doubt your political judgment. there is a new national judicial office in hungary. it appoints judges in the country and assigns cases to specific courts. this national justice office is run by someone. there's a new lady running this office. you might want to tell us who that is, if you know. if you don't know, ask your neighbor. it is the wife of józsef szájer, and i think that is a very strange thing when you talk about the independence of the judiciary. (applause from the centre)
the answer is the blue card procedure. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this is the method behind not talking to each other objectively, but personally defaming, trying to personally defame the issues that are in the room. i have no reservations about my colleague józsef szájer, and i have no reservations about my colleague - although i do not know her - either. it is also worth pointing out that if we are going to take parliaments seriously, taking parliamentarism seriously, then this european parliament must also take seriously the decisions of the hungarian parliament, which has the support of a two-thirds majority of the citizens. this too should be taken into account in the discussion. (applause from the centre)
question for the commissioner: the commission is not i would like to ask mr lópez aguilar, since 14 out of 15 blue cards have unfortunately been turned down, why mr weber, who represents the epp, is committed to law and order but is not prepared to allow the epp, or at least he, to lead the epp in a direction which would at least be a sound legal assessment under article 7 (1), which would be a clean solution to the case. as a former minister of justice and an experienced person, perhaps you can explain to me why mr weber does not support this.
mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. let me make one thing clear: hungary is not belarus, you are not viktor chávez, and you can live well in hungary. but we have serious concerns. i want to put this criticism into concrete terms, as mr manfred weber has asked for. you said there was no criticism of the constitution. now there are 25 so-called cardinal laws that actually elevate things to constitutional status, because it takes a two-thirds majority to change them back. one of them is the flat tax. i'm a liberal, i think a flat tax is actually a great idea. but i cannot take a tax issue out of the political debate and elevate it to constitutional status! i am therefore breaking the democratic right of citizens to vote in the next election for a different government and to change the whole thing. the tax law is a question which must be the focus of a political debate, a democratic debate. that's not going to work. it's going to undermine democracy. that's why this is so serious. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the prime minister said he did everything he could to consolidate the budget. how can the retirement age of some 300 judges be lowered from 70 to 62? it's costing the state a lot of money. of course, all the posts will have to be filled. well, all right. we have our ideas of who that will be. i think that's understandable. a year ago, we criticized the media law. we were told that media pluralism was not in danger. the radio club is closed. we're closed in budapest, but the country's switching off the frequencies. and, mr prime minister, you said that you had written to mr barroso to discuss things calmly and objectively. in the bild newspaper today you declared that you bow to power! (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. it is a particular tragedy, because of the history of the hungarian people, that it is now the government itself that is denying the hungarian citizens essential rights. i would say to some of the speakers that even if a party were actually elected by two-thirds of all eligible voters, it would have a very special responsibility in a democratic system to ensure that the political minority can express its position in the media, a special responsibility to ensure that the political minority is represented personally in the media, in the judiciary and in other areas. that's a core principle of democratic systems, and it's tragic that it doesn't happen. the fact that we have to have this debate today - and it is good that we are having it - is not only due to the behaviour of the hungarian government. it is also because in the past the council has not been able to take a clear stand on the hungarian issue and in other situations, and to put european values at the centre. and it is also due to the european commission, which has so far failed as guardian of the treaties. the question of judicial independence is not whether the change in the maximum age for judges is in line with the anti-discrimination directive, but whether the whole package is being looked at and examined: is it reasonable to assume that in future only supporters of a particular party will be represented in certain areas? i believe that in the present difficult situation and in order to meet the great challenge of our time, we need all member states and all citizens as part of the european union. that is why we must look back to values and not to individual laws!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am grateful that prime minister orbán is here today, that he recognizes this parliament as the forum for such debates. it is a trendsetter in a way, and we should take this as an opportunity to invite the governments concerned to debate in future infringement proceedings. it does not always have to be the plenary, but perhaps the committee responsible. i am glad that we have a government here that is willing to face criticism and has promised to make changes if incompatibilities with the acquis communautaire are identified. she already did that with the media bill. i think you should always remember how your predecessors behaved. i am reminded, as are other colleagues, of the famous lie of mr gyurcsány. then you know why the reaction was a two-thirds majority in the elections. since these old circles, as i see it, have always been very elegant, multilingual and eloquent in their dealings with our media, they have also been able to convey a description of the state of affairs that, in my opinion, distorts the reality in the country. the three points: i have a question to the commission concerning the national bank: when did the legal necessity for the independence of the central bank begin? i thought that would have to be the case with joining the eurozone. conversely, this would mean that the obligation did not exist before. it is a political question whether or not we will make another structural change along the way. so a concrete question: when does this obligation come into being? secondly, as regards the independence of the data protection officer, i would ask the hungarian government to compare these rules with those in other european countries. institutional independence is a high value, and this includes the fact that the replacement of the management should only be possible in exceptional circumstances. thirdly, i do not know in detail what the government's intentions are with regard to the reduction of the retirement age from 70 to 62. i am sure that a left-wing government with the same intentions would have hailed this measure as a great achievement in social policy and as a means of promoting the younger generation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what i want to point out is this: we are not talking about the economic situation in hungary. we are not talking about the former communist regime in hungary. we are not talking about all these things, not about the financial crisis and other things, but about hungary's departure from the rule of law as a member of the eu. that's what this is about. and there is no doubt that hungary has abolished the values of the community by law. that's the other quality, compared to other countries. it is not only the independence of the central bank and the independence of the judiciary that have been abolished. think about it: the general right of action has been abolished! the supreme court is no longer the guardian of the constitution. this is a great scandal and it affects the individual right of action. all this is a breach of the eu's values. the only question we have to debate today is: what do we do? i am not asking, as others are, that we should try to use the simple infringement procedure, as the commission wants, but article 7, because there is a clear risk of a serious breach of the eu's fundamental values.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have just had a long debate on the situation in hungary and in europe. as is normal in a parliamentary debate, different sensitivities were expressed. i think we do agree on one point: we want hungarian legislation to be in harmony with the european treaties and laws and the values they convey. the commission has acted in this way, focusing on its own competences in an objective, independent and responsible manner, in accordance with its quasi-judicial role and its role as guardian of the treaties. it is in this spirit that, after long discussions with the political leaders last year and the year before, it decided to open three infringement procedures, in the form of accelerated procedures, on the basis of the treaties, european legislation and the case law of the court of justice. in addition to these three indictments, there was a pre-indictment letter on the independence of the judiciary. i have noted several questions on this subject and would like to say on what grounds this letter is being written. the independence of the judiciary is essential for the implementation of union law. the principle of effective judicial protection provides that every citizen has the right to an effective remedy before an independent tribunal. this is a general principle of union law, and has been used regularly in the case law of the court of justice. in view of its importance, this principle has been enshrined in article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights and it is in this context that the commission wishes to know, inter alia, whether certain provisions of the new hungarian law on the organisation and administration of courts, as well as the premature termination of the mandate of the president of the former supreme court, affect the independence of the judiciary. then there were also a lot of questions about freedom of the media. you are aware that the vice-president of the commission, neelie kroes, who has been very concerned about this problem, is acting within the limits of her powers. just yesterday, mrs kroes sent a new letter to the hungarian government on the subject of media freedom. it reminds him of our european rules and asks the hungarian government to work towards this. finally, a third aspect - and i think it is also of great importance for the future work of parliament - concerns the intervention of the secretary-general of the council of europe, mr jagland, on the areas of competence of this institution: electoral law, religious freedom, the independence of the judiciary, freedom of the press. it may be worthwhile to work together with the council of europe in the areas which fall within its competence. mr jagland also suggested that the venice commission be called upon to deal with the whole issue. that is what has been done so far. it is now a question of starting to work on these files. this morning, my services were contacted by the services of the hungarian minister of justice. we are going to sit down immediately and discuss specific texts. we also know that next tuesday prime minister viktor orbán will meet with commission president barroso to discuss the letter and spirit of hungarian legislation in relation to european rules. as i have said many times, the ball is in the court of the hungarian government. rapid changes would be in the interest of the hungarian people and the european union. the only thing i can say is "let's get to work to solve the problems!" i would like to end with a quote from president barroso, which sums up very well the way we will have to continue our work: 'i believe we have to be absolutely clear on the values, firm on the principles, fair on the method and sensible on the communication'. that's what needed to be said.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, prime minister, honourable members, i shall be brief. many important issues were raised during this important debate. as president-in-office of the council, i have taken note of all your comments and concerns. the line of the presidency remains the same: all member states must comply with eu law. the question is now how to ensure that hungary’s legislation is in accordance with community law and principles in a process that is as fair and effective as possible. as i said to begin with, the concerns about the developments in hungary must be treated with the seriousness that the situation deserves. i am convinced that the commission, as guardian of the treaties, will fulfil its role. the presidency strongly supports the work done by the commission. it is also my clear expectation that the hungarian government will ensure that the legislation recently adopted complies with eu law, and i welcome the statement by prime minister orbán today that the issues at hand will shortly be resolved. the presidency is looking forward to that happening in the interests of hungary and in the interests of the eu.
hungarian prime minister. - ladies and gentlemen of the house. first of all, i would like to thank you on behalf of my country for your continued attention to matters concerning hungary. i would like to thank the contributors who supported hungary and spoke as friends of hungary. i would like to assure mr swoboda that after his speech on the hungarian political transition, i spent 15 of the last 20 years in opposition. i was in government for four years before that, and then i lost, and now i'm in government again. you can be sure that if there is one person in europe who is a friend of the political race, it is me, and you can always count on me. ladies and gentlemen, i have to tell president verhofstadt that he read a statement that was correct. he kept a secret about the end. it's true that the declaration was written by former anti-communist dissidents, but what he didn't say is important. these people were members of the governing body of the liberal party, so they are party members, and this party in which they worked has lost the confidence of the hungarian people to such an extent that last time they did not even reach the 5% key to get into parliament. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to correct all the factual errors that have been made, and unfortunately many of them, one by one, in view of the passage of time, and i would ask those who have commented and criticized or accused hungary and the hungarian constitution to be kind enough to read that constitution. it's a very valuable document. they find a lot of new things in it. minority rights, sign language rights, environmental rights, anti-gmo rights, which i think could be considered by any european country. i also felt, ladies and gentlemen, that this debate about hungary had a european aspect, a kind of ideological debate. people like me and our political community need to realize that the ideas we represent don't have the support of a majority in this house either. without a doubt, our ideals are christian, based on individual responsibility, we consider the national feeling important and positive, and we consider the family as the foundation of the future. many people may not agree with this, but it is still a european position. we may be in the minority in europe, but that still makes this a european position and we are entitled to represent that conviction. you may not agree with what i am about to quote, but i personally share schuman's view that european democracy will either be christian or it will not be. this is a european position, ladies and gentlemen. as regards the specifics, allow me to avoid the debate which we shall have to have with the commission on the specifics. i just want to mention two things here, at the level of specificity. we have no dispute with the commission on the independence of judges. the issue of the retirement age of judges is not a matter of the judiciary, but a matter of the new pension system. hungary has been ruined by an unmanageable pension system burdened with exceptions, so we have decided that there will be only one age limit for public servants, a uniform, general one. we have raised the police and the soldiers because they were below, we have brought others down, so for us this is not a judicial issue, but a pension system issue and we are happy to consider the commission's position. we can accept comments on the independence of the national bank with one exception. there is a point now where there is a sharp conflict between the commission and us. the commission asks us not to allow the president of the national bank and the members of the monetary council to take an oath before the parliament and to swear an oath to the hungarian constitution. i suggest we consider it. apart from that, on all other issues, i see that we have the same views. whether we should give in to the latter is something we will discuss in the future. and as for the old and new constitutions, i would just like to say that the old constitution was not able to protect the country's wealth and it has indebted the future of the hungarian people to the neck. it did not protect competition and the hungarian economy was dominated by monopolies and cartels. the previous constitution did not protect the environment, which was destroyed and ruined, and the previous constitution did not protect civil liberties, because it did not protect civilians from police brutality, and it allowed paramilitary organizations to keep minority groups in fear. the new constitution will remedy all of this, and i believe it will remedy it well. let me make one final comment. we hungarians believe that europe is europe because of its culture. we believe that european culture is based on goodwill and benevolence. there have always been and there will always be disputes in europe, but if the arguments are concrete, calm and sober and if we assume good intentions on the other side, we can always find a way to resolve the disputes. i regret that in today's debate, on several occasions, i have been given not arguments, not specifics, but absurd errors of fact, temper, anger and prejudice. i am convinced that accusations that are made without knowledge of the laws in question are not worthy of europe, and that judgments that are not guided by common sense and objectivity but by partisan anger and resentment are not worthy of europe. we hungarians, and i personally, believe in these values, these values have led us to the european union and we ask everyone to return to the european path in the matter of dispute. hungary was the land of freedom fighters, it is today, and it will remain. as a thousand-year-old european nation, we demand from everyone the same respect and european culture for ourselves that we give to all other nations. if you have any doubts, please come to hungary, get to know us, get to know the hungarian people. thank you for your kind attention.
thank you very much, prime minister orbán. please allow me to give you a hint. it is certainly true that in your country and in your constitution and in europe christianity has its place. but let me say this to you as a catholic who is also the president of a multi-religious, multi-ethnic, multi-national parliamentary assembly: europe is either christian or it is not, whatever that may be. but europe is either pluralistic or it will fail. i think that's certainly necessary to establish in a house like this. (applause from the centre)
question for the commissioner: mr swoboda, i would like to thank you for your kind words. if you say offensively that as an austrian and the leader of the socialists you are, so to speak, spreading love for hungary, and if you then tell the prime minister of the freely elected parliament in hungary that you are doing this out of love, i personally feel it is quite an insult to suggest to the freely elected prime minister that he would not do this out of love. that's why i'm asking you how you came to the conclusion that only you do this for the love of hungary. i believe that the freely elected prime minister does this out of love.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for giving me the opportunity, at this early stage, to discuss the follow-up to durban. from the commission’s point of view, durban was a success for europe. why was that? i believe it was because it showed that if we stay firm, if we stay united and if we make the right alliances, then we can actually achieve substantial progress. the strategy that we should not simply say ‘yes’ to a second commitment period without getting anything in return actually worked. but it is also very clear to all of us that durban did not produce the perfect outcome for climate change. there is still a lot of work ahead of us. it is clear to me that 2012 is going to be a very tough year for international climate negotiations, for a number of reasons. we have american elections coming up, we have a new chinese leadership coming in and, for instance, we have an incoming conference of parties (cop) president who is a relative newcomer to international climate negotiations. it is clear that there are many challenges in front of us this year. so what should be our follow-up activities? well, of course, in the commission we are still reflecting on and digesting durban and reflecting about the next steps. but let me mention five things. firstly, in the period between 2012 and 2015 we will have to find out exactly what should come after the second commitment period. we have to reflect on what is the best way forward to get the world to where we need it to be by 2015 and, in good time before doha, the commission will present our suggestion on a world work programme for 2012-2015. here i would look forward very much to the input of the european parliament. the second issue, for 2012, will be the ambition gap. in the last 24 hours of the conference, europe and the alliance of small island states (aosis) – together in a joint effort – got new wording included in the durban package to the effect that in the first half of this year we must try to address the ambition gap. that is obviously easier said than done, but a crucial issue is that the world is currently locking in too little ambition for the period up to 2020. we know that we will have a review. it is as the result of an eu initiative that we will get a review. we also know that before too long we will have a new report from the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) and, if one thing is for sure, it is not going to require us to be less busy on addressing the ambition gap. there is no indication that the warnings will be less serious. so, through substantial outreach we will work with willing partners to address this ambition gap and identify a way forward. my third point therefore concerns outreach. we undertook substantial outreach in 2011 with the pacific island forums, with a lot of developing countries and also through the new york un ambassadors’ visits to all parts of the world, including of course to africa, working very closely with aosis and with a number of good allies in the cartagena dialogue. we should build on that further this year. i went straight from durban to new york, in the middle of december, to a meeting with aosis ambassadors and ministers to make the point that the good cooperation we had in durban should not be a one-off, but rather something to build on when we go to rio+20, and generally in a number of fields. so we will continue to work on this alliance, and in the commission we are also considering whether europe could take the initiative on discussing the way forward with a number of other ambitious countries in one context or another. my fourth point concerns what europe itself is doing. there will be a strong focus on this. before 1 may we have to come up with so-called quantified emission-limitation or reduction objectives – a very technical thing but something that is also, of course, of political importance, and we will have to discuss our own low-carbon pathway. we in the commission hope that now, during the danish presidency, we will have council conclusions in march on the low-carbon strategy and that, with the good help of parliament, we will have an ambitious energy efficiency directive within the next six months. so there are things in the pipeline that make it do-able for europe to step up our own ambitions, not least through energy efficiency. my fifth and last point is that rio+20 is coming up and there are a number of issues – pricing, access to sustainable energy and other matters – on which we could make progress in rio in june, thus indirectly benefitting the international climate agenda. as i have said, it is absolutely key here that we build on the very good alliances we made in the run-up to durban and in durban. i think this is all that time permits, but i would just say that it is extremely important to take this dual approach, moving forward both in international negotiations and in terms of what we do domestically in europe. for all the reasons that this parliament knows, it is extremely important that we also move on that second track. i very much look forward to continuing the good cooperation with parliament and seeing how we can tackle the question of ambition, both internationally and regionally in terms of what we do ourselves here in europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not thank you very much, commissioner. i would like to begin with the very last point: of course we must continue to move forward in europe and we must not let up in our efforts. but we must of course also say this to the european council, which in some respects was not as committed to this in durban as i would have liked. i went to durban with a little bit more expectation, and i don't want to deny that i actually went home a little bit more hopeful than we went. after all, we now have the durban platform, which was a basic initiative of the commission. thank you very much, and thank you to your team. after all, this is now the basis for a global climate agreement, on which we will then have to work very hard in the next few years until 2015. unfortunately, we have not succeeded in extending this single track kyoto 2. unfortunately, that's only 15 percent left. but at least you can see that we are now able to say that the world's climate map has changed very much. we no longer have the division of kyoto and non-kyoto. countries like china and the united states can no longer go back to their ridiculous arguments of the last decade and say, they don't do it, and then we don't do it either. it was embarrassing in copenhagen and cancun. it's better now in durban. we have a new world order, to which the commission has contributed very well and very actively. we're all going to have to go in one direction now, there's no other way. one or the other will be slower. i like to compare it to a tunnel whose end we know very well, but whose individual stations and stops we have yet to build. i agree with you that the commission and all of us have to work hard on this. i would like to congratulate you, mrs hedegaard. i've always done that, actually. you were a big part of durban. that wasn't the advice. i shall be taking up the matter again later today. you have reached important milestones and we will be happy to support you in this process.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the commissioner, and the socialist group, would like to congratulate you on your negotiating role in durban. the eu has shown leadership; it has paid off. i also have to commend climate diplomacy with the coalition of these 120 countries. i would like to see china join our strategic alliance with africa. china is on its way to taking global responsibility. it would also be a signal to the us to abandon its refusal and join the mainstream of international climate change policy. we've prevented a fiasco and we have a product -- this roadmap -- that we need to work on. of course, there's plenty for us to do at home. we have this gigaton gap. if europe wants to be a leader, it must do even more than we have done so far. i hope that there will be further initiatives to go beyond 20%. we need to get the hot air out of kyoto 2. it would not be a really credible policy if these surplus certificates were to remain. i would encourage you to stick to aviation and shipping and to take new initiatives. it is absurd that the american congress should make a law to prohibit the airlines from participating in our legislation. we must not allow that to happen, and parliament is encouraging you to remain firm.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to start with something very simple and explain to the colleagues what we are talking about when we talk about e-waste, because many people say: "oh, you with your e-waste, it is all unimportant. one million mobile phones contain 250 kg of silver, 24 kg of gold, 9 kg of palladium and 9 tons of copper. one ton of cell phones contains 50 times more gold than one ton of land from which gold is mined. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal trafficking in human beings. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of waste management in the community, and it is hoped that the commission will be able to take this into account in its future work. you can see the value. i am therefore glad that we have already moved in the right direction on some of the fundamental issues of this directive: illegal shipments are being reduced because we have introduced the reversal of the burden of proof. but then we have the question again: to what extent are the member states really prepared and able - and this applies to my country too - to provide the necessary staff to enforce this regulation at customs and in ports? we have reached another important point, namely the collection targets. the collection targets have been considerably increased. in sweden, you get a very pleasant 16 kilos, and in a wonderful southern country, where my name comes from, you get three kilos. one is wonderful, the other is a disaster. in many countries of origin of the union, countries which founded the union, we have collection quotas of 4 and 3 kg per person. it is a sign of poverty for our children, because we are wasting or throwing raw materials into the landfill, where no one will come later. we have fortunately achieved these collection targets. unfortunately, we in the council have had to deal with a very phlegmatic body of this european union which has not been particularly pro-european throughout the negotiations. i will give you an example: if you produce a lamp in europe today as an entrepreneur, you will eventually have to recycle it. and then you have to register 27 times in 27 countries, so that later the recycling issue can be sorted out. this is appalling national policy. the amazing thing is that you can do all this with one application for vat, but not for recycling. a funeral for the council. the council has unfortunately prevailed and the small and mediumsized enterprises which build a lamp will have to do so 27 times in the future in the individual countries of the union. that alone costs 60 million euros per year for each individual procedure. i think this is a disaster. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and the council and the member states then have the hand of god on that money, which then leads to large transfers back and forth when the lamp is first sold in france and then delivered to italy through a dealer. there's a huge money transfer that could be organized much more easily with modern technology. i think, therefore, commissioner potočnik, that i am personally very grateful to you for the crucial role that you and your staff have played in this procedure. if you hadn't been there, these negotiations would have failed. the council has presented itself as i have not seen it in 22 years. i don't want to exclude my own country at all. the willingness to link european environmental policy with economic criteria has been pitifully small. there is a pathetic national policy and we have not even been able to define the concept of recycling at european level. everyone can do what they want. the direction of the sky we've taken is correct. but we still have a lot of work to do to get the council on the right track. once again, i am talking about all of us, not just one. thank you for your patience.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the member states, the industrialized countries, have long lived beyond their means. it's nothing new to me to tell you that we can only live this way because we do it at the expense of the poorer countries of the world. the eeag directive does address at least part of the problem. the open field of application is crucial. this approach can and should be exemplary for environmental legislation. i am glad that the collection target of 85% has finally been reached, especially because the council has been very persistent for a long time in its efforts to achieve lower collection targets. i have said it many times: parliament must exert pressure. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. i also welcome the fact that solar panels are not exempted from the directive. it was right not to rely on a voluntary undertaking by the manufacturers. all too often in the past parliament has bowed to pressure and accepted such deals. and all too often these deals have proved to be merely a delaying instrument. i do not agree at all with the way the directive deals with nanomaterials. it is essential that waste devices containing nanomaterials are treated separately. but the report merely invites the commission to examine whether this should continue in the future. that is an extraordinarily soft wording, not worth much. nanomaterials can become hazardous to humans and the environment during the recycling process. there is strong evidence that some nanomaterials may be harmful to health. i therefore call on the commission to examine nanomaterials more closely. unless it is clearly established that no risk is posed by these products, they shall not be placed on the market. nevertheless, in these circumstances, i am satisfied with the overall result. the persistence of parliament in the negotiations with the council has paid off. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate karl-heinz florenz on his success. that was a herculean task. he and the committee have been working on this issue for over three years. i do not want to repeat what many colleagues have said, but to emphasize a small but very important aspect for the citizens. it's about the energy-saving bulbs. energy-saving lamps are useful and save 80% of electricity compared to incandescent bulbs. but they contain rare earths that we have to recover, and they contain a little mercury. they contain two hundred times less mercury than the thermometers we used until a few years ago. but even this little mercury should be disposed of in a professional manner. we have left the citizens a little alone lately. i have experienced this myself in my home town: i wanted to dispose of small electrical appliances, and they told me: please take this to the yard outside the city. tuesdays we're open until 3:30. what working man has time before 3:30 on a tuesday? it's got to be more civic-friendly. so i've joined with my colleagues in a petition to recall energy-saving light bulbs and other small appliances in the store. or there must be another, more citizen-friendly solution. i'm grateful that karl-heinz florenz and the shadow reporters have pushed this through. this is a signal to the citizens that we are taking their problems seriously and that we are involving them and making it easy for them to return these devices so that they can be disposed of in a professional manner.
member of the commission. − madam president, two short answers, and a little bit longer one, about the past and the things with which we are dealing today. firstly, on the differences in the member states, it is true that the challenges they are facing are huge, but it is an absolute fact that the opportunities which they have – especially those countries which are on the lower level – are also huge. they will have to take that on board. secondly, on nano-materials, i have stated clearly that they do deserve special attention, and they will have special attention, under the appropriate legislation. this is an issue to which quite a lot of attention is being awarded, including inside the commission. finally, about the past and why i have said that the environment and business are both under consideration today. i do consider this past – which we have tried to address in the best way through the roadmap to resource efficiency – as one of the most central stories of today’s european future. many countries in europe today are indebted. if we want a proper answer, we will not have it without stimulating growth. if we want to address the issue of growth properly, then we will have to focus on the competitiveness of the european union. so the competitiveness of the european union is a real problem. these things which we are proposing – better use of resources, a more intelligent use of resources – are the central issue leading out of the problems which we have. i hope we will understand that. as mentioned by mr gerbrandy, the prices of these resources are increasing extremely fast. this is a totally different trend than that in the 20th century, when the composite prices of raw materials fell constantly, except during world war one and world war two and the oil crisis. in the first decade of the 21st century, it is just the opposite. if you take into account that europe is extremely import-dependent, and if you take into account that, in the cost structure, this accounts for much more than the labour, then what is actually happening in the companies is logical. they are refocusing from innovating in the area of labour incentives and labour productivity to productivity which is connected to the resources. this is the past we are talking about. we are talking about something which is a central piece of the problem that europe, in the financial and economic crisis, is today talking about. so what we will hopefully vote for when we adopt the new weee legislation is one of the central pieces of that past, which will give the right part of industry, which is forward-looking, a clear signal and clear incentives that this is the way we want to go and that this is what we are talking about today. that is why i am extremely happy that the target which was set quite high has remained unchanged. finally, i would like to thank sincerely parliament as a whole, but especially karl-heinz florenz. it was really enjoyable to work with him, because his skills and also his understanding of the problem really gave us the opportunity to work hand-in-hand.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. commissioner, i think you have just hit the nail on the head in that we all agree that we are in a position to start a third industrial revolution in europe if we understand that we see the opportunities for sustainability as an industrial opportunity. then you mentioned resources, and that brings me to a thought that i had totally forgotten today. i forgot about the human resources in my office. and, mrs. philipp, if you'll excuse me, you've been working like a horse, with wonderful success, you've been a very leading figure in this matter. and i want to thank you for that!
the rapporteur. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i want to use all my speaking time at the beginning because i have a competing important event and we are so late. i hope you'll allow me to do that. the commission has already made a number of proposals. after more than two years of intensive discussions and negotiations, we are now able to present a final document on a regulation on the authorization of biocidal products in the european union. following the rules on chemicals in the reach regulation and the pesticides regulation, we are also regulating the authorisation and placing on the market of biocides for the first time. on 17 november, in the third trilogue, we were able to reach an agreement with the polish presidency on second reading. today we can say: we the european parliament, the council and the commission have made major improvements in environmental and consumer protection, but also in the area of faster and easier european authorisation. i should like to take this opportunity to thank all those involved, the members of the commission and the council, for the good cooperation and the willingness to compromise and cooperate. biocides are essential to the high level of health and hygiene in our society. as disinfectants or pesticides, they protect against dangerous diseases and are used to protect perishable materials. biocides are also used as preservatives, for example in paints, wood preservatives, sealing car paint, furniture and fabrics. so we have to deal with biocides very often in our daily lives. they have an effect and therefore a side effect which can be dangerous to humans. the 1998 biocidal products directive did not harmonise testing and authorisation of active substances between member states and involved lengthy coordination processes between different national authorities; they made getting a license almost impossible. we need a regulation, however, also because of the incidents in recent years in which sofas and boots imported from asia have caused skin irritation and poisoning. in future, only products treated with biocides authorised in the eu may be placed on the market in the eu. our aim is to strike a balance between benefits and risks. we have strict exclusion criteria for active substances and products. we are aware, however, that the risk of not using biocides must also be considered. if there is danger, there must be exceptions. these are clearly defined and apply only where an active substance is necessary for public or animal health reasons or where non-authorisation would have negative consequences for society. consumers want to be informed. there will therefore be labelling requirements on the name of the active substance and its biocidal properties, on relevant instructions for use and hazards and on the possible retention of active substances in nanoform. we are aiming for faster eu-wide authorisation of active substances and products. the best way for parliament to do this is through the european chemicals agency, echa. in order to avoid a backlog of applications or authorizations, we have agreed to a gradual introduction of community authorization. the aim is to allow products containing low-risk active substances to be authorised by echa throughout the eu through a simplified procedure. we want a single market. therefore, member states may refuse authorization on their territory only in clearly defined situations and with the agreement of the commission. the authorisation procedures must be designed to be efficient and simple. if it's just the color or the smell that's changed, then we don't have to go through this whole approval process again. studies must be made available under controlled conditions to avoid duplication of animal testing, but ultimately also to share costs. only if research companies have the opportunity to recover the high costs of drug testing and product authorisation through marketing will they be willing to invest in the future. the effects of biocides must be known to all users, but especially to those who use these products professionally for others. if i'm fighting the lice on my own head, it's my own risk, so i'm doing it for me. but if i go to a professional hairdresser and pay him for it, i expect him to be highly trained and ultimately to guarantee safe use. so he must be trained in the use of biocides. the same is true of the pest controller, the painter, the painter, and the carpenter. we in parliament will not lose sight of the need for a directive on the sustainable use of biocides, just as we will monitor the implementation of the regulation, which is now the responsibility of the member states. we are all aware that such a regulation is not set in stone. certainly, changes and additions will be made over time. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the implementation of these programmes is often a matter of political decision. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. we have not received the cooperation we should have in these areas and we will therefore state in a written statement that this is not a precedent for future legislation. democracy requires the voice of the elected representatives, in this case the voice of the european parliament. once again, a heartfelt thank you to all those who have contributed!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the recommendation on the handling of biocidal products which is to be submitted for decision tomorrow is of immense importance. biocides are not just found in disinfectants or pesticides. they're in furniture, they're in varnishes, they're in products that we use every day. and they're very protective of us in the hygiene department. that is why it is important that we examine this proposal. and we can see from the results that the highly toxic biocides are being phased out of the market by legislation. we have found that the trade gap is being filled by clear labelling. i think that's very, very important. the consumer knows what it's about. but it also shows a high level of expertise that we can allow exceptions in the area of animal diseases in addition to national defence, so we recommend to the member states that they can allow exceptions here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. that is why it is right and important that we allow exceptions here. proportionality justifies this decision. i do not think it is important for us in europe to decide how these funds are to be used. this is a matter of subsidiarity, and the local authorities should decide on this. climate, traffic and many other external factors can hamper application or prevent large-scale implementation. that's why we're leaving this to the local authorities. then we will certainly succeed in using biocides and in protecting man from toxic substances.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank mr bové for his report and mrs patrão neves for the initiative in this motion for a resolution. we have two developments that concern me. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. commissioner, i was just looking up: on july 27, 1961, at the age of 14, i received my driver's license, and my first job was to haul grain to the brewery. a double-centner 100 kg cost the equivalent of 25 euros at the time. on the way home, i bought a daily newspaper, which cost the equivalent of 5 cents. grain is now 20 euros instead of 25 euros, newspapers 70 cents instead of 5 cents. if grain prices had followed the trend of newspaper prices, consumers would now have to pay 350 euros for 100 kg of grain. these figures show what farmers in europe do and how they have contributed to ensuring that our consumers receive low food prices. what bothers me, and i am the chairman of a farmers' cooperative myself, is the issue of payment targets. i shall confine myself to that for the time being. it has become unseemly for the retail chains to burden these farmers' cooperatives with ever longer payment deadlines. originally it was 24 days, today even in germany it is often 60 days. that means if we deliver fresh milk, we deliver the 30th delivery before we get paid for the first delivery. commissioner, there is an urgent need for action. the commission has already taken action on the roaming charges, and we must also take action on the payment targets. there's no other way to handle this. i beg you!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we need functioning markets in europe with room for competition. but we can only achieve this if we have equal rights there. farmers are relatively small individual entrepreneurs. in the upstream and downstream sector, on the other hand, we often have larger corporate structures. i therefore welcome the commission's approach to the market, not only from the consumer's point of view but also from the producer's point of view. if we have imbalances there, we must find ways of remedying them without creating too much red tape and creating new imbalances elsewhere. we all know how sensitive markets are. we see this every day, especially in the debt crisis. so it's important to think carefully when we intervene. markets need reasonable frameworks to allow for a minimum of balance. but they also need sufficient freedom to act and to act. agriculture must not be exempted from this principle. only a balance of freedom and responsibility allows all market participants to reap the benefits and thus contribute to growth and prosperity in a lasting way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i very much welcome the fact that this subject is being considered in the plenary and i thank mr bové. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the use of the ecu in the community budget. the cost of production for farmers has risen sharply in recent years. the increase in expenditure on energy and agricultural equipment is particularly felt by farmers. the strong concentration, especially on the part of the food trade, makes it more difficult to obtain good prices for the products produced. the trade gap between the originating and the finished product is sometimes considerable, but it does not matter much to the producer, since much depends on the different stages of processing. political intervention in competition policy can be used, but it should be used with caution and in part with confidence in market forces. i think it is important to make consumers aware that buying local products from the producer or processor supports both the farmer and the local economy. i see our task here. we should intervene here, whether with money or with political instruments. strengthening the region is a key for me. we must provide additional keys in the common agricultural reform. as a social democrat, it is important to me that everyone has access to healthy food at reasonable prices and that farmers are able to earn a fair and decent income from their work. this demand demands that we remain here with our responsibility and do justice to it. in all our actions we must ask ourselves each time whether we are living up to these demands. if we fail to do so, we will be faced with social unrest in the long term. farmers and consumers are in the same boat. let's make sure they always have enough water under the keel.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is not the commission's intention to make a distinction between the two. that's exactly the kind of fairness we don't have. on the other hand, we have a social market economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we need a language that the market understands. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the farmers are not left behind. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new forms of competition. this just can't work. what we need, in my view, are strong associations of interests and economic interests for farmers who can regulate the market here. to do this, farmers need associations of interest and market information. and they must also be allowed to make price agreements. we must therefore also change the law on cartels in favour of our agriculture.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament and the member states today agreed on a new version of the eu regulation on biocides. i very much welcome the fact that there will be eu-wide authorisation for biocidal products and that non-european manufacturers will also have to seek european authorisations. this means that foreign manufacturers must also adhere to the high european standards if they want to sell their products in europe. but from an agricultural point of view, it is important that we have available biocides that can benefit our farmers. a good compromise has been reached here, which allows for the sustainable use of biocides and further reduces the potential risks associated with their use. that means that we are on our way to this issue and will of course not be the last time we deal with it in the european parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. in recent years, for example, operating and production costs have risen much faster than producer prices. we need fair conditions between all market participants. that is why we have a social market economy. social market economy means that policy must also intervene when these fair market conditions are not present. the problem we have in the agricultural sector is that on the one hand we have many farms. then we have a medium-sized manufacturing industry, and finally we have a highly concentrated trade in the hands of a few market participants. and then, of course, the less organized farmers tend to be the ones who are short-changed. this means that we also need many more interest groups that can get market information and can also agree on prices. the current antitrust law does not meet these requirements and therefore needs to be adapted.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was very happy to agree to the report. in the european union, almost 90 million tonnes of recyclable food end up in landfill each year. it is intolerable that almost half of all food is thrown away during production and distribution. we just need to think of something else. i would ask the commission to analyse the causes more closely and we must also analyse the differences between member states in much greater detail. and if we as consumers are the main responsible for this waste, we simply have to come up with more policy. the starting point is certainly the minimum durability of food, which often leads to excessive care and, therefore, of course, to food waste. for example, in poland, instead of the minimum shelf life, it is written "best before ...", in austria, a recommended shelf life is printed. so we should learn from those who are most sustainable in their food.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament has this week dealt with a central issue in the industrialized world: food waste. i was very pleased to hear that, because it affects about half of the food produced in the member states of the european union, which means that food does not reach where it should be, that is, ultimately the consumer, but is thrown away. i must stress once again, in addition to my colleague mr pieper, that we must also come up with something more. the report is a step in the right direction, but we also need real, tangible and acceptable action. i would like to stress another point which irritates me personally as a farmer: we must also close existing material loops. because there will be more and more cases where food is no longer fit for human consumption. but for now, these must be destroyed and can no longer be used as animal feed. i would also ask the commission to take measures to ensure that foodstuffs which are no longer fit for human consumption can at least be used as animal feed.
in writing. − a spectre is haunting industry: the scarcity of rare metals, which is essential for high-tech products ranging from electric cars to thin-film solar cells. for many of our companies, especially in my home state of saxony, one of the leading research and high-technology centres in europe, these raw materials are therefore indispensable. the extraction of metals from electrical and electronic scrap is therefore becoming more and more important. the potential is particularly great in electrical devices such as computers and mobile phones. in germany, we are already quite good at recycling compared to many other eu countries, but many important raw materials are also lost in e-waste, legally or illegally. this is not only environmentally and socially questionable, but also increasingly problematic economically. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not sent to developing countries and that people are not poisoned by it. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to provide a legal basis for the application of the principle of subsidiarity, in particular by ensuring that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied in a uniform manner. i am glad that the environment ministers and parliament have been able to reach an agreement on this.
in writing. - "no more food waste", i can only agree. the numbers are alarming. 60% of food waste in european households could be avoided. the commission has concluded that one fifth of food ends up in the waste stream as a result of incorrect handling of the minimum shelf-life. i can therefore only support the call to declare 2013 the year of information and education on food waste. we need to raise awareness among citizens from an early age. we must educate the public about the importance of the minimum durability date. the expiry date is not the expiry date. it is intended to serve as a guide for consumers only. the same is not true of the expiry date of perishable goods. these products should not be used after the expiry date. we all have a responsibility to prevent food waste and to raise awareness throughout europe.
in writing. - the report by mr caronna is a good thing, which is why i voted in favour of it. it calls on the commission and the member states to implement concrete measures to halve food waste by 2025, to increase the efficiency of the food industry and, in particular, to educate the public on this issue. we all have to stick our necks out here. the numbers are staggering . in germany alone, an estimated 20 million tons of food end up in landfills every year. and this is especially true at the very end of the food chain, namely, with us consumers. besides the ethical questions of how to afford this when so many people do not even have the bare necessities, there are the environmental costs and the cost of disposal. so we are all called to be more sustainable in our approach to food, and we politicians should be less likely to make regulations for the food industry that will make the problem worse. the so-called tablets are certainly a useful way of reusing foodstuffs that are no longer needed by the trade. in saxony alone we have 35 tablets, in germany about 900. more than 100 000 tonnes are donated to the boards in germany every year - unfortunately, this is still a long way from the 20 million.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday, 19 january 2012.
the next item is the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the informal european council meeting of 30 january 2012.
president of the european council. − mr president, over the last two years, european leaders have had to take difficult and sometimes painful measures to stabilise the eurozone. although this was necessary – and we are now starting to see that it was worth the effort – we recognise that financial stability is a necessary but not a sufficient condition for economic recovery. we must do more. we must do more in particular on economic growth and employment and that is why we put in place the europe 2020 strategy, the euro-plus pact and the european semester. growth and employment were never out of our minds. the march european council will focus on structural growth and, by the way, the economies in most of our countries were growing positively in 2010 and 2011. the focus of monday’s informal european council was indeed on growth and jobs. the bulk of our discussions were on this, though we approved at the same time the final text of the esm treaty and put the final touches to the treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union. you will have seen from the statement approved by the members of the european council that we have called this ‘growth-friendly’ fiscal consolidation and ‘job-friendly economic growth’. what do we mean by this? slashing deficits, but not by cutting our investments for the future: investments in education, training, research and development, and green infrastructure. increasing the competitiveness of our companies, while making it more attractive for them to hire people. a strategy for growth covers many aspects: the short term and the longer term; economic policy and competitiveness, but also specific employment policies; national competencies and those of the union. we focused on three priorities. firstly, creating jobs, especially for young people. last week, i received a letter from the european youth forum in which they wrote: ‘young people, in times of crisis and economic austerity, do not need nice words but strong investments’. and indeed, that is why we have agreed to use available european funds to set up apprenticeship schemes and help young business starters. stimulating employment is mostly a responsibility for the individual countries, but most of the work we can do together, as a union, and we will do it. each member state must have a ‘job plan’ as a part of its national reform programme. second priority: helping small and medium enterprises to get access to credit, for instance by freeing up available eu funds to support employers and reduce red tape. the recent initiatives of the ecb are also helpful in avoiding a credit crunch and a further deepening of the recession. third priority: the single market. we are determined to get more out of it, for instance by finalising the digital market and the energy market. priority must go to the measures which do most to stimulate growth and jobs. we decided upon a series of deadlines for opening markets. a return of confidence – and now i am speaking in the short term – in the eurozone can restore the confidence of consumers and companies quickly, as was the case in 2009 after the financial crisis. the recent lowering of exchange rates for the euro can boost exports. all this is helpful, as i said, in the short term. the aim is to provide prospects, to offer hope through the decisions of this council and those of march and june. results take time but there is no doubt of our resolve and that of the danish presidency. now over to the treaty, as i know this is of particular interest to you, and it closes a chapter that has been the cause of much debate for almost two years. as i have said many times already in this hemicycle, we have badly missed a governance structure since the launching of the euro. this treaty must be seen as just one element of the reforms to economic governance that we have achieved over the last two years, reforms which involve both responsibility and solidarity, and which include the six-pack, which remains the backbone of our new governance architecture. this treaty is about more responsibility and better surveillance. every country that signs it commits itself to bringing a ‘debt brake’ into its legislation, preferably at constitutional level. an automatic correction mechanism will re-enforce compliance. enshrining the debt brake in the treaty will enhance its credibility. this is important as a confidence-building measure. it represents a major step forward towards closer and irrevocable fiscal and economic integration and stronger governance in the euro area. it will significantly bolster the outlook for fiscal sustainability and euro-area sovereign debt and therefore enhance economic growth. placing this commitment to self-control in the treaty shows our long-term and irreversible commitment to avoiding excessive deficits and debt. the treaty also changes the majority required to initiate the excessive deficit procedure – something that could not be done through the six-pack legislation. this is particularly important for the credibility of that procedure. this is not a commitment to austerity, but a commitment to financing public expenditure through revenue rather than through debt. there is nothing virtuous about excessive debt – it means that more and more of your public expenditure is spent on servicing your debt instead of public services and public investment. excessive public debt is a threat to our social model. like most members of the european council, and like parliament, i would have preferred these issues to be addressed by changing the existing treaties rather than through a separate treaty. as you know, the necessary unanimity for this was not forthcoming. there was no choice but to go down this route. but in so doing, i was personally determined to keep the new provisions as close as possible to the eu treaties. we were not setting up a separate organisation but the means of reinforcing our union. i had endeavoured in the same way when setting up the euro-plus pact. i hope that our successors will succeed in integrating this treaty into the eu treaties. let me also emphasise that i was personally committed to keeping the union together as much as possible, while recognising the specificities of the eurozone. all the countries ratifying this treaty will participate in euro summits when the architecture and fundamental rules of the eurozone are at stake or the implementation of the treaty and the competitiveness of the contracting parties. i was happy to see that almost all countries will sign the treaty. it will enter into force as soon as 12 euro countries have ratified it. we were helped in this by the efforts of parliament’s three representatives, elmar brok, roberto gualtieri and guy verhofstadt, whom i want to thank for their efforts. parliament’s insistence, along with others, on coherence with the existing treaties was particularly helpful and contributed to securing a number of key features of the new treaty. besides this fiscal compact treaty, we also endorsed the agreement among the 17 on the treaty for the european stability mechanism. it will be signed this week so that it can take effect from july 2012. the early entry into force of this permanent firewall will help prevent contagion in the euro area and further restore confidence. its operation will also be subject to the scrutiny of your parliament, as i have indicated already in my letter of 22 march last year to your rapporteurs. as agreed in december, we will reassess the adequacy of resources under the efsf and esm rescue funds at the next european council meeting – less than four weeks from now. a final point. although this was not formally on the agenda, we also briefly touched upon three urgent foreign policy issues, mainly along the lines of the good and strong conclusions adopted by the foreign affairs council on 23 january. we endorsed the restrictive measures against iran, including an oil embargo, as decided by the foreign ministers last week, and we expressed our outrage at the atrocities and repression committed by the syrian regime, and urged the members of the un security council to take long overdue steps to bring an end to the repression. these are good examples, after our joint actions in libya, of a common foreign policy. this concludes my report. step by step we are making progress in the construction of an economic and monetary union, slower than hoped and expected, but reaching each time broad agreements among our member states. this was the case also in the european council of last monday: a positive step on the road for more hope. (applause)
president of the commission. − mr president, president of the european council, distinguished members of the european parliament, i would like to draw your attention to two main aspects of the informal european council on monday afternoon. firstly, the european council was a first but a significant step by heads of state or government in recognising that it is not enough to focus on financial stability and economic discipline alone. by bringing to the table concrete proposals to tackle youth unemployment and to finance smes, the commission broadened the perspective towards the issues that are of greatest concern to all our citizens – jobs and growth, sustainable growth. this is an approach that we have often discussed with this parliament and i know you support the commission’s outlook, rooted in the europe 2020 strategy. together we are moving. more steps are, of course, needed. we will continue in this direction. the second issue that i wish to highlight is linked to the commission’s determination to maintain the role of the european union institutions and of the community method in the new treaty. we are now entering into a new phase of economic governance, based on the european semester, where governments recognise that even matters under their national competence, such as employment, should be dealt with at european as well as national level. due to the high levels of interdependence between our economies, we can no longer deal with economic and social matters solely at national level. when it comes to issues such as job creation, there is clearly a european dimension. national action, and indeed regional action too, should be supported and complemented by european action. europe’s economic problems are obviously not over. it will be a long road to recovery. i stressed the need for us to continue with the comprehensive approach to resolving the crisis that the commission set out in its road map to stability and growth in october last year. from this point of view, it was important that the heads of state or government agreed with our proposal to ensure that the european stability mechanism enters into force in july 2012. as agreed in december, we will reassess in march the adequacy of resources under the efsf and the esm. one main message coming out of our discussion on growth and employment on monday was the need to do much more to unleash the potential of the single market, europe’s ‘crown jewel’. the heads of state or government agreed with the commission’s proposal to fast-track the single market act and complete the digital single market by 2015. i trust that we can rely on parliament to make good progress on this growth package in the coming months, with the help of course of the danish presidency, and we all know how determined the danish presidency is regarding these objectives. the single market act can improve the framework for our companies, but there is also more we can do to create the conditions that will help these companies, namely the smes, to thrive. smes have created 80 % of all new jobs in the european union in the last five years and are the backbone of europe’s economy. we need to help them to take up the great opportunities being opened up by our trade agreements with growing economies outside europe. last december, the commission proposed using structural funds as guarantees for smes, to give them easier access to finance. we have also put forward a proposal to facilitate access to venture capital, which i would like to ask you to adopt this year. on monday i asked the heads of state or government to be even more ambitious in cutting red tape for small and micro enterprises. on youth unemployment, i called for an urgent response and made concrete proposals to halt this unacceptable trend. each member state will prepare a national jobs plan, centred on a youth guarantee, to ensure that all young people are either in a job, in training or in education within four months of leaving school. the commission will set up action teams with the eight countries that are most affected by youth unemployment. i have already written to the prime ministers of these countries proposing a concrete way forward. we will seek to redeploy eur 22 billion of european social fund money to improve job opportunities in europe. we will seek to maximise the european union programmes we already have, namely erasmus for studying, leonardo for training and eures for job vacancies. the national job plans will be brought into the european semester exercise so that, by the spring european council in five weeks from now, we will be able to give concrete guidance to all member states. we will also continue the dialogue with the social partners, respecting their role to obtain the best possible solutions and to implement them smoothly. i personally met with the representatives of the social partners at european level and i know how committed they are to fighting the terrible scourge that is youth unemployment. another positive step in this informal european council was the endorsement by the heads of state or government of the treaty establishing the european stability mechanism. this is a very important part of the global strategy to strengthen the economic and monetary union. we are making progress, probably not as fast as most of us wanted, but we are making progress towards a fiscal union in our european union. twenty-five member states also reached agreement on the treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union, which is an essential element in our efforts to regain stability and confidence. as you know, this treaty was not the commission’s choice, but rather the consequence of the lack of a unanimous agreement to amend the lisbon treaty. but the fact that 25 of our 27 member states have agreed to sign this treaty, is a testament to the solidarity and determination within the union to resolve this crisis together and to avoid a division between euro and non-euro area member states. from the outset of the negotiations on this treaty, the commission, together with this parliament, defended a series of principles: namely the primacy of european union law, the need to keep the proper role of the union institutions, a spirit of inclusiveness with all member states, and the need to integrate the agreement into the lisbon treaty within five years. in the final text, there are no new institutions that could weaken the role of the commission and of this parliament. the contracting member states agreed to respect the commission’s central role in delivering the agreement’s objectives in line with the lisbon treaty and the community method. and they agreed to keep the treaty open to all and compatible with the community method, respecting this european parliament. in upholding the community method, the commission has acted in close cooperation with parliament and i would like to highlight the important contribution made by parliament’s representatives to the negotiations. you will recall that we acted in the same spirit of partnership during negotiations on the modification of article 136 of the treaty. today i want to reaffirm, on behalf of the commission, the content of the letter sent then by olli rehn to elmar brok and roberto gualtieri, ensuring the involvement of this house. i would like to note that this was the first european council at which martin schulz participated as president of the european parliament. at the beginning of the council he made an important political contribution on these points and i am grateful for his clear commitment in upholding the principles dear to both our institutions. it is relevant that member states welcomed the legislative proposals made by the commission on 23 november last year – the so-called two-pack – within the framework of the treaties, namely under article 136, and also that they committed themselves to supporting further secondary legislation which the commission will propose to strengthen further the stability and growth pact, within the framework of the lisbon treaty. this is a clear guarantee that the role of the european parliament in economic governance will be ensured until this new treaty can be integrated into the european union treaties. indeed, we cannot respond properly to our current challenges without democratic legitimacy. cooperation between national democracies and european democracy – and european democracy is embodied in this parliament – gives us the legitimacy we need to take the decisions necessary for the prosperity of the european union. (applause)
question for the commissioner: the commission is not prepared to accept this. would you be aware that the same countries which are currently in particular difficulty in the debt crisis are also the countries with the highest youth unemployment! i would also like to point out that labour market policy is a matter for the member states and that sanctions where companies have to hire people would certainly not be useful but would rather make the situation worse. would you also take note that the french citizens themselves elect their president.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i read in the newspapers after the summit that some people were calling this summit and the fiscal pact a 'masterpiece'. but if you look at what really happened, i would come to a very different assessment. what happened? what happened? we have a contract still in the pipeline; we'll see where it ends up. a treaty which aims to ensure that existing treaties of the european union are respected, and this treaty is being built outside the european treaties. it is also possible to completely marginalize democracy in the context of this new treaty outside the treaties. if this is a masterpiece, ladies and gentlemen, then i do not know, mr van rompuy, mr barroso, whether i can take you seriously any more. i think you are much wiser politically than the speeches you made today on this last informal summit and its results. i want to tell you that i think this is a political charade. i don't think the citizens are very happy about that. i think the citizens are becoming more and more aware that they are being cheated with this charade during the summits. what's the biggest problem? the biggest problem, in my opinion, is that the analysis behind this whole fiscal pact says that public debt is the biggest and main problem in the crisis. and as much as i try to understand the analysis of the crisis, i don't come to the same analysis. but the fact that we are still arguing about the restructuring of public budgets is what has been aggravating this crisis for years and years. and so, really, to what should have been debated: this anti-recession programme for countries in crisis, where is it? you're telling anecdotes about jobs and growth again. i've seen this whole chapter treated as a footnote at this summit, and i can still read and do math. where is the money to put in those announcements and promises you make on the sly? i can't find it anywhere. ladies and gentlemen, a look at greece, a look at portugal. the danger of infection must be known to everyone. what does greece need now? a savings commissioner? another instrument of horror, devised by european technocrats who have already installed the technocratic government and put a financial expert at the head of the greek government, a savings commissioner? i believe that the greeks finally need an honest analysis and an honest commitment to a better future. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we know that in the infrastructure sector, in the energy infrastructure sector, the programmes would actually be ready, and we could go into them. we would have european companies investing in greece. we are talking about a commissioner for austerity, instead of discussing with the greeks the future of greece, instead of encouraging the greeks. i thought that was a low point, that then, so to speak, 'under further running' was also spoken about greece once again. mr van rompuy, i was ashamed of this summit. one last thing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. how do you justify that? i'm not the closest friend of donald tusk. he's from a very different political background than i am. but when it comes to europe and thinking about the whole and not discussing the narrow interests of the rich european countries, when it comes to the whole, then i think we can take a lesson from donald tusk. the fact that he had to be challenged for a role at the catholic table of the great was a low point in european politics. i don't understand "masterful" as that.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the liberalization of financial markets has led to developments in the markets which have not been brought under control to date. only radical measures to prevent speculative activity on the markets can bring the crisis to a decisive end. instead, with the adoption of the fiscal pact, we are seeing a further intensification of the unilateral orientation towards austerity and social cuts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is being criticized by the international monetary fund itself. financial guru soros says that this austerity has plunged europe into a deflationary debt spiral. the debt brake was already enshrined in the maastricht treaty, and its incorporation into national law is now intended to enforce its implementation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. it is absurd and undemocratic, because the states are losing their most important right: fiscal sovereignty. it is still totally unacceptable that solidarity aid to countries in need should be made conditional on the signature of the fiscal pact. the most important principle of the european union is thus sacrificed on the altar of the financial markets. the left is calling for a reversal of this disastrous policy. we need a pact for sustainable growth and employment. we need public investment programmes for the environment and education, and above all we need a parliamentary voice of the european parliament and the citizens. the treaty must be approved by referendum or public consultation. (applause from the centre)
question about the blue card process to nigel farage. i would like to ask mr farage, the hatred preacher, a question. he was talking about gauleiter. i am opposed as a german to the equation between democratic germany and national socialism. that's why i want an apology from this gentleman. no one in berlin uses a gauleiter anywhere in europe. this is hatred preached in the european parliament, hatred between european peoples. he should take that back, or you should make sure he doesn't do it again. (applause from the centre)
the nationalists in this house are the ones who put their flags on their seats to document their nationalism here. as far as i know, you're one of them.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! first of all, i would like to thank mr barroso and mr van rompuy and their staff for the successful cooperation they have provided to the european parliament's negotiating team. secondly, i have to say that we didn't want this contract. we wanted to have a community contract. but this was not possible because of the attitude of the united kingdom, which made it a condition that we should not regulate the financial market. we want to regulate the financial markets so that this casino does not bankrupt us, and that is why we had to reject what the united kingdom was asking for. certain circles are now speaking the language of the past! this european union has brought peace, freedom and prosperity to the peoples of this continent as never before in its history, and i will not allow that to be destroyed by the hatred of mr farage and others who have spoken here. (applause from the centre) this treaty makes possible the debt brake, the reverse majority and the european court of justice. that is not possible under the present community treaty. but we should ensure that everything else is within the framework of community legislation, and we have done that with a lot of support. community rules should apply and everything should be done within the framework of community legislation, taking into account the european parliament's co-decision rights. president barroso, we ask you to come forward with proposals quickly, not just on the two-pack but also on other areas and on the implementation of the growth package, so that we can do something concrete. greece and other countries need light at the end of the tunnel. in fact, citizens need to see that excavators are driving and working for the future. we need fiscal discipline. we need structural change in these countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted. but we must also use european possibilities. when i see that 16 billion euros are in the account for greece, but the greek administration is not able to present projects for this, then we must help them. that is what is coming, mr swoboda. we need to help them get their administration under control so that they can generate growth. that's all it is. mrs merkel is fighting for discipline, for structural change and for growth. that's the triad. they forget discipline and destroy the future of future generations if they forget discipline. this too must be seen in this context. (applause from the centre) the community method, the rights of the european parliament, are preserved here. but i think we need the double solidarity that mrs merkel wants. everybody's trying to get their shit together. that's how we help. that's the strategy. the socialists should now vote for mr sarkozy, because he has now proposed a financial transaction. we should support that. it took mitterrand two years to renounce socialism because france was bankrupt. if hollande is elected - which i hope he is not - he will have to change his ways in 14 days, from the day of the election to his taking office, because otherwise france will be ruined. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
mr brok, i gave you an extra minute for an exception because you were one of the successful negotiators in this house. that was the bargaining chip.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not firstly, mr president, we must insist that each country must abide by its own rules and that this must be ensured. when you accept rules, when you sign contracts, when you make legislation, you have to make sure that it is applied. that's all it is. secondly, all the measures that are now being decided can only be taken by decisions of the national parliaments, the greek, german, dutch, but not the british, because the united kingdom is not taking part in the solidarity action for greece. this must be said in the context of mr farage's concern for the little people. and i think that for that reason we could only have such a savings commissioner if there was a common rule with a legal basis that would apply to all countries that do not follow the rules. that is why i strongly reject - and this is the position of the german government - the idea that there can be no special solution for greece.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the internal market. congratulations on that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! i think that was a good solution that was reached. i could have imagined better. but sometimes in politics, there are times and situations where you have to try to do the best you can. you have to be satisfied with that and then work on it step by step. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i don't understand the excitement here at all. we wanted to be economical with money. we told you to watch your debt. we said we had to take care of the growth. and now it's done. not in the form and not in the way we wanted it, that's right. our colleagues have been involved and have tried to improve the best in some areas towards community law. mr brok has just pointed this out. and then we have a show of the leaders of the major political groups who are making party politics look like a bad thing. i must say that at a time when europe is having such problems, to put on such a show here is irresponsible, irresponsible. i'm horrified by it. i'm really appalled at the way this question is being handled. mr president, when such questions are being asked here, to make such cheap party politics! to talk about how we have to unite europe and blame the other and then ourselves to promote hatred and division here. i would therefore like to say, mr president, that if i were to use such words here, as some of my colleagues have done, namely the chairmen of the political groups, i would have to say with all humility that this is not the way to deal with each other and that this is not the way to find a solution for a common europe. not like this. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question for the commissioner: if i understand this correctly, the six-pack that we have decided on in this house by a majority - not the whole house, but a majority - is european legislation that is already working. when will the fiscal pact deliver, and in which countries will this fiscal pact produce additional stability? from when, mr. reul?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i can't give you a date, but it'll be quick, you know that. you know very well that all the decisions we take here always require a certain deadline for implementation. it's on the same path, and they've criticized it in terms of content. you didn't criticize the deadline. you have just criticized the substance of the procedure adopted here on monday, and i think that is hypocritical.
mr gualtieri, i should also like to thank you for the excellent work you have done in the negotiations. i have to apologize to my colleagues in verhofstadt. i thanked everyone, mr brok, mr gualtieri, not you. that's because you're the leader of the group, that you were there in a dual capacity. i think parliament's negotiators have done an excellent job. so once again, i want to thank you all very much.
i call mr bullmann, who was elected chairman of the spd delegation today. the germans are voting feverish. i would like to congratulate you, mr bullmann.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. a quick look at the harsh economic reality: on the day of the summit, the markets valued portuguese government bonds at over 17% for ten-year bonds and over 20% for five-year bonds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if one or the other of you is wondering where the unrest is coming from, it may be from the economic data and the feeling that what we've done is not enough. i would like to thank you, mr president, for the courage and clarity with which you have come to this house at this summit to say: yes, we are defending the community method, yes, we want to consolidate, but we must also invest so that europe's economies can flourish. i believe that this house will be able to reach agreement on this and we will be able to develop a common economic policy.
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i have to tell you a little bit about the "catch the eye" procedure. the 'catch the eye' procedure has been introduced. i must ask the group chairmen to reconsider this so that we can allow our colleagues to speak spontaneously at the end of the debate. the reality is that the "catch the eye" procedure is an attempt to introduce a second-hand list of speakers here by putting more or less pressure on the president to give the floor to certain people. i'm not doing that. i am referring here to the spontaneity of our colleagues and i ask that in future we give the floor to those who are here and who contact us spontaneously at the end of a debate. otherwise, it is unfair. (end of the 'catch the eye' procedure)
two motions for resolutions were tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 2 february 2012. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the question time with the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy. we are dealing here with a first question time of this kind. mrs ashton has agreed to be available for the first time for a question time, such as we normally hold with the president of the commission. i want to remind you of the rules again: the question time is divided into two parts, firstly the group chairmen or the members appointed by them can ask a question of one minute, to which mrs ashton will reply in one minute each. i will then give the opportunity - in case it is desired - to ask a supplementary question, which will be limited to half a minute, as well as the answer. questions by the political groups
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – baroness ashton, the us is moving away from europe. what does this mean for us? of course we have to look at the future of pooling and sharing within the common security and defence policy. it is advancing very slowly. maybe my daughter might see some results one day. it is not your fault – it is the member states. however, with that as a background, there are three things that have become even more important and they actually come under your responsibility: first, conflict prevention; second, better crisis management; and third, peace building. these come under your responsibility and we need the best of our tools – former commission and former council – coordinated and embedded in one structure in order to develop common concepts and approaches, for example in the rule of law, security sector reform and border management. developing common approaches is different from managing day-to-day crises. we need to be ready for crises. i thank you for establishing the crisis platform, but where is the appropriate structure you were promising during the negotiations of the external action service? where is it happening? my question is, when will we see that structure and how will it be reflected in the budget for 2013 that the external action service is currently drafting?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – please would you allow me to have a very precise follow-up question. in the external action service we are currently building up the conflict prevention and mediation unit, which has a great head. it currently has financing due to a pilot project which was initiated by this house. this runs out at the end of 2012. i do not want to see the work of that unit coming to an end, so my question is, will you integrate this into the regular budget, starting in 2013? this is now happening in the next two weeks.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the latest eu sanctions are not confidence-building measures but saber-rattling. that's a fact. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a party to the nuclear agreement. we as gue/ngl do not want nuclear programmes, and that is quite clear, not even in iran. we condemn the iranian regime in the strongest terms for its catastrophic human rights violations, oppression of religious minorities and persecution of human rights activists, but a stop to iranian oil through the de facto ban on trade with the central bank of iran ultimately affects the people. that's a fact. this is also election aid to the iranian regime in connection with the elections in march this year and increases the risk of war throughout the region. that's the dimension we're talking about here, mrs ashton. there is no real evidence to date of a current nuclear weapons program by iran. there are indications up to 2003, but after that the iaea has no evidence in its report. she has suspicions, claims from intelligence. instead of escalation, we need human rights dialogue and serious negotiations for a nuclear-free middle east and peaceful coexistence throughout the region, and that is the eu's mandate and not the aggravation of the present situation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i believe that what we are trying to achieve with the draft resolutions and what the high commissioner has said here fit together quite well. i too believe that sanctions must be strengthened, that they must be such that they are not counterproductive, that they do not lead to a solidarity of the population with the regime, but have the opposite effect. i think we should make it clear that this regime, which is a real dictatorship, is not complying with the terms of the non-proliferation treaty and that for this reason measures must also be taken in accordance with un resolutions, such as those of the european union. but i also think that the regime should be warned to try adventures in the strait of hormuz, because it is not in the interest of the regime. the european union is seeking a way out of the crisis by means of a military intervention, and if it is to act only on 1 july, there is still a time horizon to avert this, if the message is understood correctly. lady ashton, i thank you for saying that these messages are being given through our decisions, through our talks, through partners like turkey, but i hope, reinforced by countries like russia and china, who have to take their responsibility here so that there is a clear message from the world community. i think that on this basis we should be able to not only stabilize a regime, but at the same time ensure that the world does not become more insecure, that such a regime does not become armed with missiles and acquire nuclear weapons. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have expressly welcomed the council's decision to impose sanctions, to impose an oil embargo and to increase pressure on iran. i think that is sensible and correct, and i am surprised that some colleagues say that there is no evidence of military intent or that it is impossible to distinguish between civilian and military use. you just have to look at the facts. iran has 5,000 kg of uranium enriched to 3%. that's what you need to make energy. but he's already got 75 kilos enriched to 20%, and that can only be explained if you're looking for military use. enrichment must be increased to 90%. technically, it's complex, but it's not impossible. all the facts, including the latest report from the international atomic energy agency, indicate that military use is being sought. that is to say, we have a clear timeframe for this to take place, and it is therefore right that the european union should now increase its pressure. the same goes for the carrier systems, the vulgo missiles. the iranians are obviously working on medium and long-range missiles. the urgency of the situation is thus brought into even greater focus. it would have been better if the oil embargo had come into force immediately, while understanding the need for some member states to find diversification opportunities. but iran also has the opportunity to find ways around it. i am glad that the joint resolution of parliament is supported by a broad base. i am also pleased with the particularly constructive role played by the iaea, particularly since yukiya amano took over as director-general. this is a great help and i am also pleased about the positive, constructive role that turkey has recently played in this matter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. nuclear weapons are among the most terrible weapons in existence, and they must be abolished worldwide! the civil use of nuclear energy is uncontrollable. we must therefore do everything we can to promote a global phase-out of nuclear weapons and a global nuclear disarmament, and in particular a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the middle east. peacefully! until then, the current treaties will apply. as critical as the regime in iran is, it is clear that iran has signed the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, unlike india, israel, north korea and pakistan. it thus invokes the right to the civil use of nuclear energy guaranteed to all states in this treaty. this is dangerous, just as it is in other countries. and no one has the idea - and rightly so - of taking military action against all the countries with nuclear power stations or of punishing them with sanctions. neither intelligence agencies nor the latest report from the atomic energy commission provide any hard evidence that iran is building, preparing or planning nuclear weapons. but it is precisely on this pretext that the open threats of war against iran for many years have become a reality. in addition, there is an increasingly aggressive economic war aimed at destabilizing the country. this policy, ladies and gentlemen, is highly dangerous to world peace and limits the possibilities of the progressive opposition in iran. it seems that peace and human rights are being sacrificed to the global interests of the us and the eu. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i know that, of course, but i honestly don't know what this question has to do with the subject at the moment.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs ashton and the other members for their work. the presidential elections in russia on march 4 will show whether this government has learned from moscow. they will show us whether the processes are improving and whether we can hope together that the development is moving forward in a positive way. i am also very hopeful of the many demonstrations that have taken place since the beginning of december. they are a sign of a strengthening of civil society and in that sense they are also a sign of hope for me. the large demonstration announced for this saturday also reveals the problem of the russian opposition and the protest movement. the so-called systemic opposition parties represented in the duma are largely not perceived by the population as democratic alternatives. the involvement of nationalists in the protest movement is also controversial. i believe that we must show a special solidarity with those who have joined the white ring action in the last days and weeks. citizens belonged to a wide range of social classes and fought for their rights, without any ideological background, but above all without any self-interest. they did not want to put the government in power at some point, but they wanted the right to freely choose their government. and that's all the more convincing. what russia needs most urgently are democratically legitimised state institutions and mandate holders who have the trust of their voters and who make a clear commitment to the interests of their voters and give a clear rejection of corruption and other arbitrary acts. we must therefore urgently support this movement and, in our discussions with our russian partners, make it clear again and again that we are happy to work with them, but that we also want to see joint successes towards more democracy. we in the eu-russia delegation will certainly be talking to this organisation when we are in moscow in eight weeks' time, and it would be good if the commission could also actively contribute to their support.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: while we are experiencing siberian cold, russia is getting hotter politically since the manipulated and falsified duma elections last december. the fact that this election was not kosher is demonstrated by the findings of the odihr and the election observation of the russian ngo golos. since then, the apathetic civil society has been on the move: a growing protest movement fueled by self-respect, demanding an honest russia that no longer wants to be patronized, calling for the cancellation of the duma elections, the recall of the head of the central election commission, new elections under the terms of the new electoral law promised by medvedev for 2013, and above all, free, fair and correct presidential elections. we may well be witnessing in russia what we had hoped for so much from the arab spring and now see with skepticism: a genuine democratic upsurge, the birth of a civil society. the poet dmitri bykow described it well at the big demonstration on december 24th, saying that a newborn is expected to live a life of all kinds of dangers and risks, but he is born and you can't put him back. russia's controlled democracy is escaping state control. if, as is claimed, it were indeed a sovereign democracy and not a staged one, then there would be no need to fear honest elections, and the elected government could refer to the sovereign. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but this also applies to social renewal, which cannot progress without political competition, a political competition and discourse that has been gradually eroded since putin came to power. but now this all-paralyzing social contract - you let us live, we let you rule - is broken. civil society is reclaiming its political rights. next saturday, the protest movement will fight for the right to freedom of assembly and the right to demonstrate, 22 years after the memorable february 4, 1990, when hundreds of thousands in moscow demanded the repeal of the constitutional article that established the leading role of the communist party. today, we are fighting against the kremlin's monopoly of power and for the separation of powers. it is about alternative raw materials power and putin's fsb vertical of power or a democratic pluralistic knowledge, information and market society in open exchange with the eu. it is a question of whether, in all our partnership efforts, in our willingness to cooperate, in our partnership for modernisation, we are also achieving a genuine partnership of values.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. it is an undeniable part of strategic partnership that partners talk about what is irritating and what changes would strengthen the commonalities. there's more than one such point. but what is increasingly surprising is that this house is content to insure each other's values. yesterday's polling data from russia should give us a lot more to think about. the russian people want a modern country with a stable economy that is more than just exports of raw materials. but only 7% of the population believe that the eu is willing to help with the necessary restructuring. not only has their share halved, but it is particularly low in the parts of the country with close contacts with the eu. the questions connected with this should be discussed here, also in the light of the values of democracy, social participation and the views expressed on the elections and the political and civil society upheavals in the russian federation, especially in the light of the contradictory experiences of the russian people with the yeltsin era of the new russia.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, may i first of all warmly welcome the report and thank mr saryusz-wolski for the work he has done to bring this report to life, as well as all those who have commented on it, amended it or participated in the discussions about it. it is really important because the growing role of emerging powers – and we focus in this debate on what we call the brics countries – is really important. when we consider the relationships that india, brazil and south africa have developed in their coordination through the india-brazil-south africa dialogue forum (ibsa) and the relationships between brazil, russia, india, china and south africa in what we now call the brics, it is important that we think about them in that way. we know the economic statistics behind the phenomenal rise of the emerging powers, but for me the essence of this is about the politics. what matters is that economic clout is translated into political clout – into self-confidence and ambition for the role that can be played. we know that the five members of the brics are, of course, five strategic partners of the european union, and individually they are – as mr saryusz-wolski has said and the report acknowledges – very different in many ways. each of them has a strong and deep relationship with the european union. it is incredibly important that we invest in our relationship with these countries and be active and creative in our engagement with them. we have a lot in common, and potentially there is a lot we can do together. this is precisely what i have been doing, what colleagues in the commission and in the council have been doing, and it is why – as honourable members will remember – when i took on this role i said that i had three priorities: to get the service running; our neighbourhood, long before the events of the arab spring; and, thirdly, our strategic partners. i would just mention that there are other emerging powers – countries like mexico; countries with which we work closely, like south korea; and of course indonesia and others – but i want to concentrate for the purposes of this debate on the five that we call the brics. with each of them, as i have said, we need to develop a strong relationship. in china i not only met with my interlocutor, state councillor dai bingguo, with whom i had long debates and discussions, but i also met defence minister liang to talk about how we could work together on tackling problems that we face together – on piracy, on counter-terrorism and so on. one of the advantages, if you like, of the many hats i wear in this post is that i can move between the foreign ministry and the defence ministry in many countries and can express the views of the european union with both. we have also been talking, of course, in india in the last two weeks: again, trying to break new ground in developing the strength of our relationship – particularly on some of the security issues that are so important and on joint work to develop the capacity to deliver on the world food programme, as well as tackling some of the global issues that we and they face – and recognising the significance of india in the region. this weekend i travel to brazil and then on to mexico, our ambition, here again, being to strengthen the relationship we have and to talk about issues of importance between us. in brazil i will focus in part on iran as well as our work with brazil on development and our work together in the un human rights council; and in mexico, where they have played such an important role in recent days, on climate change and on some of the challenges that they face in their part of the region. i should mention, too, south africa. i met the south african foreign minister in november, again to discuss some of the issues that are extremely important – and south africa’s work with the eu in durban on the climate change discussions has been of enormous importance. we have just discussed our relationship with russia. it is a very important bilateral relationship; russia is a significant partner in foreign policy; and of course there is also our concern about the internal situation. in each of these countries we are trying to invest in developing a strong bilateral relationship. each of them is different; each has a different history and different relationships, traditionally, not only with the european union, but also with the eu member states. i agree that we need a more creative and joined-up approach as we look not only at how to deal with those bilateral relationships, but also at how to work with that group of countries in regional and global forums. this brings me to a thread running through your report which i think is really important: namely, the extent to which they form a homogenous block or not. i know you have been very clear in the report, mr saryusz-wolski, about not exaggerating what that means. as you stressed, there are major differences economically, politically and socially – and anyone looking at those countries would see how significantly different they are – but whether they manage to coordinate their position depends on where their interests coincide. there are issues on which coordination is relatively straightforward, others where it is more difficult, and many where they would perhaps want to develop that coordination further. so my proposal is that we need to invest in these countries as strategic partners in a very strong and dynamic bilateral relationship, finding the themes and issues on which we can work closely: economically and politically, bilaterally and internationally. we need to do that because it is in our interest to do it, but i also believe it is in our interest to avoid a mindset of ‘the west versus the rest’ – something i discussed with president obama and secretary of state clinton at the summit in the usa in december. it is important that we recognise the significance of our relationships with each of these countries and find the common ground, where they should be with us and we should be with them, on many of the issues we face. it is important that we deal with them as individual, strong strategic partners, but what mr saryusz-wolski has just said about coordination is completely right. i welcome the fact that the committee on foreign affairs has highlighted coordination within the european external action service. may i instantly take up your proposal and say that i will – as a direct result of your report and your comments – make sure that we find ways to implement such coordination in the future. that brings me to my last remark. individual countries – yes. individual relationships – absolutely critical. however, as these countries start to come together, it is really important to consider what it is that brings them together to form a common position, be it because we are in a different place, or because they feel they want to gather together as emerging powers, rather than – from their perspective – powers in a different part of the world. we need to find ways of creating a different dynamic and making common calls with some or all of them when that works. mr saryusz-wolski, may i again thank you for the report. as i said, you have already achieved at least one thing in creating new coordination within the eeas.
the committee's opinion was drawn up in the light of the work done by the advisory committee on development. - mr president, this is lady ashton. close cooperation between the european union and the brics countries is essential in the face of global challenges, such as development policy in africa. you made that very clear, lady ashton. i would add that we must act quickly, because the west alone will not be able to meet these challenges. we must honestly ask ourselves where the emphasis should be in future: on the dissemination of european values or on cooperation with china, for example. because one thing is clear: some of the brics prefer gradual convergence over binding and harmonised international standards and rules. if we want to deepen cooperation, we must, in turn, be more careful about values. if we want to spread our values, we must expect difficulties in cooperation. i firmly believe that the middle way is best. europe should not preach or be seen as knowing better. and there is no reason to do so by looking at history. we must be attractive by our own example. in any event, there is no way around closer cooperation in the face of global challenges. in short, the rise of brics and the change in the world order is a great challenge, but an equally great opportunity we should seize it! this report is a small building block and i thank mr saryusz-wolski for his work.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, coming back to development policies, we need to acknowledge that the brics countries are also new and increasingly important players in development policy. in fact, we should welcome this. we should try to include them in our international agreements on principles of development – including, for example, aid effectiveness principles – without using their inclusion as an excuse for watering down our own commitments. we need to foster south-south cooperation because experience from, for example, brazil on how to fight poverty has been very useful: the poverty reduction programmes that have been implemented in brazil have been a great success, and now they are being implemented in other countries as well. such proven best practices will be very important and they represent an important step for developing countries and societies. another crucial recommendation in the committee on development opinion is to push forward the reform of global financial and economic governance institutions – notably the bretton woods institutions – with the aim of ensuring broad representation of all member countries while reflecting changes in their economic weight. can you tell us, baroness ashton, what steps the commission and the eeas intend to take in that regard? we must also not forget that a large proportion of the world’s poorest people still live in the brics countries and therefore we cannot treat those countries as high-income countries. the eu-india free trade agreement, for instance, will have massive implications for india’s small farmers, fishermen, fisherwomen and other poor people. it is not right to look only at a country’s overall gdp because that is not a true reflection of the reality. we need to find new ways of dealing with emerging countries. helping the poorest in these countries will continue to be necessary and important.the committee on development also asked the commission to define specific areas of cooperation with the brics countries in the field of development policy, for instance cooperation in the health sector, including access to basic healthcare services and infrastructure, the fight against aids and other matters. maybe you could also give your view on that, baroness ashton, and tell us what steps you will be taking. i will conclude with a word about our own position. too often we have heard that what we are doing in developing countries may not be the greatest thing – but if we did not do it, china would come along and do it even worse. so i hope we will never hear that excuse again.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all let me also express my congratulations on your election. as the commissioner responsible for sport i cannot but express my deep regret for what has happened in egypt today, which shows exactly why we have to work to find a healthy way of conducting sport at all sporting events. i would like to thank, first of all, the rapporteur mr fisas ayxela and the shadow rapporteurs for all their work in producing this excellent report on the european dimension in sport. i am glad to note that parliament endorses the proposals contained in the commission communication adopted last january. the commission will carefully consider all the suggestions made in the report. two years after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, we are now implementing a coherent set of actions in the field of sport and we are doing this on the basis of the priorities agreed by the council and parliament. following on from the commission’s communication on sport and the council’s work plan, parliament’s new report completes a solid policy framework which will guide the eu as it develops the european dimension in sport over the coming years. let me briefly mention some of the initiatives that the commission is, or will, be carrying out in line with the suggestions made in parliament’s report. these cover the following policy priorities: health and participation, anti-doping, statistics, sustainable financing, good governance, education and training. several of the report’s suggestions will be developed by the expert groups set up by the eu work plan in order to prepare concrete policy deliverables. in line with parliament’s report, the commission has been implementing a number of actions that were set out in our communications. these include recent studies on the funding of grassroots sport and on the contribution of sport to economic growth and employment in the eu, and forthcoming studies on health-enhancing physical activity, on economic and legal aspects of the transfer of players and on a possible sports monitory function in the eu. we have also organised two eu conferences on statistics and sports agents, which were very well received. furthermore, thanks to parliament’s support, a third year of preparatory actions has been launched to address the fight against violence, racism and discrimination in sport and to promote good governance in sports organisations. these initiatives would not be complete if we were not able to secure sustainable multiannual eu funding to support our policy. parliament is right in requesting that the commission propose an ambitious budget for sports policy under the future multiannual financial framework. thanks to parliament’s support the commission has proposed a new programme – erasmus for all – which includes a substantial chapter on sport. the new programme responds to our europe 2020 goals and sport, as an economic and social sector in its own right, has an important part to play.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. - mr president, i have to say something. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his excellent report. the most important thing i wanted to do in my opinion to the economic and monetary committee was to make it clear that sport has a considerable economic weight in addition to its well-known health and social importance. i am sure that there is some added value to be generated in this area at european level. in principle, however, i believe that the principle of subsidiarity should remain the main issue in sport. sport must stay close to the people. this works best when it is organised nationally, regionally and then locally. the european union should not simply go beyond these points and create an appropriate legal framework. this is true, for example, with regard to the public finances of sport, competition rules or even competitions and user rights. i therefore welcome the fact that these aspects have been incorporated in the rapporteur's report and i can fully support the text.
the next item is the debate on the report by carlos josé iturgaiz angulo, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the issues raised by petitioners in the context of the application of the waste management directive and related directives in the member states of the european union (2011/2038 (ini)) (a7-0335/2011).
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission i would like to thank mr iturgaiz for a very good report on the application of the waste framework directive adopted in 2008. i also wish to thank the members of the committee for their views and contributions to this important debate. the commission very much welcomes the report, which presents important facts linked to the state of implementation of waste legislation in member states. as we have already stressed on many occasions, full implementation of waste legislation is crucial for securing a safe and healthy environment, as well as a resource base for european industry. however, we face a persistent implementation gap in waste legislation and the resulting wide disparity between member states in terms of performance in waste management not only puts our environment and health at risk but also prevents the eu economy as a whole, and its recycling and waste management industry in particular, from reaping the benefits of proper implementation. let me quote some facts. first, we have missed opportunities due to poor implementation. those missed opportunities are estimated to amount to a loss of eur 72 billion per year. secondly, if the material going for disposal today was treated in accordance with the existing legislation, we could have avoided between 146 and 244 million tonnes of co2 emissions. that is the equivalent of taking 47 million cars off the road each year and corresponds to somewhere between 19 and 31 percent of the eu climate reduction targets. last, but not least, full implementation of waste legislation could create over 400 000 jobs – jobs which we need very badly in the current economic environment. these are important figures, and for this reason the commission fully concurs with the conclusion of the report that effort needs to be stepped up to fully implement existing waste legislation. we also subscribe to parliament’s call on member states to transpose the waste framework directive without further delay and to ensure full compliance with all its requirements, and in particular to establish and implement comprehensive waste management plans so that the goal of european waste laws is put into practice quickly. the commission will continue to monitor compliance with european waste legislation. we will continue to provide guidance to member states on practical aspects of implementation, and we intend to streamline resources by identifying and focusing on the most problematic member states and to address existing deficiencies together with those member states. we are also looking into the possibility of strengthening cooperation with the european environment agency in this respect. let me conclude by saying that we have efforts underway to address parliament’s concerns raised in the report, and at the same time we are grateful that parliament is bringing much-needed added energy to those efforts.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the report by mr iturgaiz angulo tackles the problem of the lack of waste disposal in some member states, which is affecting people in europe. i would like to thank our colleague, mr iturgaiz angulo, for bringing this report back to the professional level in a very good way. in some regions of europe there are still serious problems with waste management. the main problem is the lack of viable concepts for waste prevention, recovery and treatment. this creates mountains of garbage that spill over into other states. the committee on petitions has made numerous visits to the regions and has been able to obtain a fairly accurate picture of the situation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be harmful to the environment. it is important that all regions implement the existing eu legislation in this area in a timely manner and develop comprehensive waste concepts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the responsibility for this lies primarily with the member states. i am also counting on the european commission. it should intervene at an early stage when it appears that the regions are not developing or implementing correctly the concepts or regulations, or when the regions are not in a position or willing to develop and implement the concepts. this also means that there are swift and consistent penalties for non-compliance. the consumer is of course also playing a crucial role. without people's awareness of waste prevention and separation, it will be difficult to establish a functioning waste cycle in the positive sense in the sense of a material cycle . because of all the ways we can recycle our waste, the best waste is the one that we can avoid in the first place. this is good for people, good for the environment, and saves resources that could be put to other useful uses. let me summarize this again. first, we need a concept of waste recycling and waste prevention, which must be created by the regions. i agree with the commission when it says that without a comprehensible approach there is no money from brussels. that's right, you're right. secondly, and this is an equally important point, we must make it our duty to the member states if the regional authorities are unable or unwilling to develop such a concept. the member states must help to develop this approach. if there is still time - and this is my only criticism of the commission - the commission must help the member states to develop this concept in good time so that the garbage heaps do not ruin our beautiful europe.
we have more speakers than we have time. that is why i will do so in such a way that those who have been present since the beginning of this debate will also have the privilege of participating in the 'catch the eye' procedure. there must be some sort of selection process.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you very much for making my bachelorette party very simple, very disciplined and very easy for me to conduct. it goes almost without saying that without the ladies and gentlemen on my left and right, this would not have been possible either. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mrs regina bastos, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the daphne programme: progress and prospects (daphne: progress and prospects) (a7-0006/2012).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by norica nicolai, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the situation of women in war (2011/2198 (ini)) (a7-0429/2011).
the next item is the brief presentation of the report with recommendations to the commission under article 138 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union by evelyn regner, on behalf of the legal affairs committee, on the 14th company law directive on the crossborder transfer of registered offices (2011/2046 (ini)) (a7-0008/2012).
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to congratulate ms regner and the committee on legal affairs for the report on the cross-border transfer of company seats. the timing of the report is very appropriate as the commission will launch, in february, a public consultation on the future of eu company law. the process was initiated with a conference in may 2011 which brought together practitioners, scholars and experts from a variety of backgrounds, including from this house, to discuss key company law issues. a group of experts established by the commission provided a report for this conference. since then, the commission has continued its reflections and decided to involve a larger circle of eu citizens in the work by launching a public consultation. the issue of companies’ cross-border mobility including, but not limited to, the question of a directive on the cross-border transfer of companies’ registered offices, is an integral part of this. the public consultation will contain detailed questions on the need and conditions for a possible directive, as well as its likely effects. the view expressed in the report today will fit into this process in a valuable way. so many thanks again to the rapporteur. this is not the first time parliament has called on the commission to come forward with a proposal for a directive on the cross-border transfer of company seats. the commission has already openly engaged in a dialogue on the need for such a directive, which would have to bring real value for the companies and for the internal market. clearly, this is not a topic that has disappeared from the commission’s radar. there are two specific issues in this context that require careful consideration. i am referring here to the separation between a registered office of administration on the one hand and to employees’ participation on the other. the negotiations on the european private company statute have shown once again how difficult it is to find compromises on these issues between member states. the commission finds the report very balanced regarding these issues and we are grateful for this. the commission looks forward to continuing the constructive dialogue with parliament on the important issue of corporate mobility in general and the directive on the cross-border transfer of company seats in particular. i can assure you that commissioner barnier will take full ownership of the follow-up of the discussion we have had in this house today. the commission plans to finalise its reflection on this issue in the course of this year.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. i hope that today's own-initiative report will be taken by the commission as it was written by parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. and not just in germany, but in the whole of the european union. the transfer of the registered office may lead to the loss of participation at company level. if the registered office is moved across borders, the german corporate participation rules can be circumvented. today, the participation of employees in an enterprise is determined by the member state in which the company has its registered office. the company is not registered in a 'head office' but in a place where there is a substantial part of the company, such as offices, employees, etc. this means that there must be a real link to the register. the relocation directive must not be used to circumvent the rights of employees and creditors by setting up letterbox companies abroad. if the registered offices can be separated from the head office, social rights can be effectively exercised. we have to stop that. this is only possible if the registered office and the registered office are the same. the rights of workers in the european union are thus effectively protected. i hope that the commission will protect social europe and the rights of citizens in its draft legislation.
the next item is the briefing by mr norbert neuser on behalf of the committee on development on eu development cooperation in promoting access to energy for all by 2030 (2011/2112 (ini)) (a7-0442/2011).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the universal access to energy report comes at the right time, at the beginning of 2012, as the united nations general assembly has declared 2012 the international year of renewable energy for all. two points are of particular importance to me and to all the colleagues who have worked on this report in the committee. the first is that we want renewable energy. the second is that we want access to these new sources of energy for all. and that is why these sources of energy must also be affordable for everyone. we have worked very constructively in the development committee, especially with ngos. i would like to mention in particular practical action in london and the stockholm environment institute in sweden. our secretariat has also been very active in helping us to find ways of pushing for universal access to renewable energy. i would like to clarify the subject once again: currently, 1.3 billion people live without electricity. 2.7 billion people cook with biomass on improvised herds. the vast majority of these live in rural areas, particularly in sub-saharan africa and india. just one example: kenya. 20% of the population has access to the electricity grid, but only 5% of the rural population. access to energy means not only light or electricity, but above all the possibility of cooking, heating. but access to energy is not yet a millennium development goal. but without access to energy, our mdgs are going to be difficult to achieve. this is why we have proposed in the report that access to renewable energy be included in the reorientation of the mdgs from 2015 onwards. schools, training centres, health centres and hospitals are hard to imagine without electricity, without electricity they are unable to function. cooking and heating with biomass causes millions of deaths every year in these poor huts from harmful smoke. many african governments have banned the use of charcoal for cooking and heating for climate and health reasons. but in practice, the responsible ones have to look the other way when charcoal is produced and sold. we very much welcome the fact that the commission has included energy as a key priority in its agenda of change. i would therefore like to summarize our main demands in the report once again: the eu and member states are invited to support the un targets for universal access to energy by 2030 and to align their policies accordingly. the commission is called upon to focus on small, decentralised renewable energy projects, as this is the only way to reach the broad masses of people. more money is also to be made available. the european investment bank and the other european development banks are not geared to small, decentralized energy projects. this needs to change, and universal access to energy should be a prominent part of the rio+20 process. and finally, universal access to energy should be included as a development goal in the millennium development goals from 2015.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission very much welcomes the report by mr neuser and we clearly see eye to eye. we are equally committed to ensuring that the target of universal energy access by 2030 is fulfilled and that renewable energy increases its contribution to meeting this target. we are all aware of the fundamental role that energy plays as a driver for development and an underpinning factor in delivering health, education, food security and economic growth, as well as the fact that clean energy brings additional benefits by reducing air pollution and the associated risk to public health. the recommendations of the report are fully in line with the strategies adopted by the commission, such as the agenda for change, which recognises the unique role energy can play with regard to development. we participate strongly in the un sustainable energy for all initiative. commissioner piebalgs is leading a working group under the high-level panel set up by secretary-general ban ki-moon. this initiative aims to create the concrete conditions for success in the two most pressing and, may i add, increasingly interconnected challenges mankind is confronted with: reducing poverty and combating climate change. sustainable energy for all will decisively contribute to both. the commission has been playing a strong and active role in these very early discussions and we, the eu, are rightly seen as one of the leading players, if not the leading player, in making the initiative a success. this is because of our collective role as the world’s leading donor – 60% of development cooperation funding comes from the european union – and because of our voice in international financial institutions such as the world bank. as a former world bank staff member, i can confirm that it was europe which pressured the world bank to adopt its first-ever renewable energy targets. we are also the only set of countries already committed to achieving the headline goals on energy efficiency and renewable energy. we have the rio+20 summit coming up, with the unique opportunity it can give us to come up with new initiatives. i am sure commissioner piebalgs would look into ways of making that area one of the fields for funding commitments. there is also strong recognition on our side of the role this house has played in adopting and implementing legislation to further the objectives presented in this report. we recognise the key role of renewable-base decentralised solutions in providing the poor with access to energy, and i see this when i travel to poor countries like niger and chad. we obviously have to be very determined in pursuing renewable energy solutions. we must also recognise that these countries have needs in connection with access to water, hence the importance of having water storage capacity. in other words, we can achieve multiple objectives by pursuing decentralised solutions. a specific communication on universal energy access is not envisaged in 2012, but i believe we should do better than a communication. through the active role the union will play in the sustainable energy for all initiative, we can turn this into a practical action that delivers access to energy services in a sustainable way by 2030. as part of the initiative, we are working on a mechanism to enable developing countries to opt in to a scheme whereby they would receive the necessary technical and expert assistance to develop their own national energy access strategy. this would ensure real commitment from partner countries, thus allowing conditions that enable the delivery of private investment to materialise, and i can see that mr neuser shares this analysis. the commission believes we can deliver these results together. i am very grateful to this house for its support, and grateful too for the support that the committee on development has always shown during our work.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by olle schmidt on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the annual tax report (2011/2271 (ini)) (a7-0014/2012).
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament for putting tax policy high on its political agenda as demonstrated by this first annual tax report and, particularly to thank mr schmidt, not only for the constructive tone of the report, but for setting the standard high for others to follow. on behalf of the commission i would also like to welcome the broad support for the commission’s initiatives and the valuable suggestions made for our future work. let me address specific points in more detail. first, in the current economic climate, clearly the european union needs a more pro-growth, pro-jobs tax policy. in the 2012 annual growth survey: launching the european semester, the commission outlined ways towards growth-friendly tax reform and fiscal consolidation in member states. in the short term, shifting taxation away from labour towards consumption and polluting activities, in addition to cutting unjustified tax expenditure, could contribute to much-needed growth. furthermore it will be important to improve the tax environment for businesses. in this respect i would like to highlight our commitment to an eu vat system with a single set of simple and clear rules providing businesses with more accessible and better information, and creating a new vat forum: these are some of the actions we have planned in our recent communication for a new vat regime. i also very much welcome the support for our proposal on the common consolidated corporate tax base. this proposal will contribute to achieving many goals you seek, such as reducing administrative costs and red tape for companies, especially for small businesses operating across borders. it will help to remove discrimination and double taxation. in this respect, and as a complement to the ccctb, the commission is committed to further examining the potential for a binding dispute resolution mechanism covering double taxation, and many of you have spoken about it. but the commission is not only aiming to make life easier for businesses and provide advantages to them. in the current economic climate, tackling the causes for member states’ tax base erosion is of particular importance. for this reason i am very glad to see very strong support to our efforts to fight tax fraud and tax evasion, but also to tackle double non-taxation of large companies that artificially shift profits to minimise the effective tax rate. very soon the commission intends to launch a public consultation on double non-taxation in order to establish the full scale of the problem, and to get information about existing schemes and possible solutions. by the end of this year, the commission will present a comprehensive initiative to further address issues highlighted in the report, such as tax havens, aggressive tax planning and double non-taxation. i also very much welcome the support for our communication on removing cross-border tax obstacles for eu citizens and for our efforts to strengthen cooperation and coordination between member states in order to prevent such obstacles. as you can see, the commission’s thinking reflected in our ongoing and planned initiatives is very much in line with the issues raised in the report and by members today. i am really delighted to see that parliament agrees on the importance of an eu-coordinated tax policy as an essential element in our strategy to move out of this crisis towards a better future for our citizens.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today.
the next item is the report by mr martin ehrenhauser, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the budgetary control of eu humanitarian aid managed by echo (2011/2073 (ini)) (a7-0444/2011).
member of the commission. − mr president, let me start by expressing my gratitude and the gratitude of the commission particularly to the humanitarian staff, here in brussels and in more than 40 countries, striving to deal with the humanitarian consequences of natural disasters and conflicts, often working in difficult and risky environments. we recognise that they do a good job in managing our taxpayers’ money and this is something that we very much appreciate. we live in a time when disasters are on the increase, conflicts are getting more complex and, while humanitarian needs are growing, resources are not. that puts additional pressure on how we use our taxpayers’ money, on the effectiveness and efficiency of our work, and in this context i am very grateful to the rapporteur and to parliament for the advice you are giving us. let me stress four points. first, the report comes at a very good time for us because we are working on the revision of our framework partnership agreements. in these revisions we will continue to strive for strong control and monitoring systems for the effectiveness and speed of our operations, because for us speed is not a luxury but translates into more lives saved at a lower cost for our taxpayers. of course in this context we pay particular attention to the un. it is right to say that we have to continue to work for the reform of the un system and to negotiate for the internal audit reports of our un partners to be made available to us. let me emphasise that we have taken a very prudent approach to checking the performance of our partners and their projects. every year we review one third of our partners and one third of our projects to see whether they meet the high standards we have set for their performance. secondly, we strongly emphasise a results-oriented approach in our partnership agreements and we will continue to so. yes, last year we spent eur 1.1 billion to help the victims of conflict and disasters around the world. with this money we reached 146 million victims, providing them with food and water, medical care and shelter, and by doing so have reduced the risk of conflicts spreading further and creating more instability around the world. we want our partners to pay close attention to results and to value for money for our taxpayers. third, i could not embrace more warmly the recommendation made to emphasise disaster risk reduction and link relief to rehabilitation and development. this is the only way we can cut the humanitarian cost in the future. already we have spent 8% to 10% of humanitarian aid on disaster risk reduction. we have made linking relief to rehabilitation and development a priority for our cooperation with commissioner piebalgs because the best way to build resilience is through development. finally, we are committed to integrating into our work a systematic cost-benefit analysis so we can put forward projects and programmes that meet the requirement of achieving the highest possible result for european taxpayers’ money, so you can be sure that you have a partner on our side who is very mindful of what europeans are doing in this time of austerity to help others in need around the world.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the voting time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. firstly, we have completed the vote and secondly, you can be sure that it was much more than the qualified majority. i could see it from here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let me just say that there is some confusion about this vote. how can we vote if we are against misleading the consumer? if you are against misleading the consumer through advertising, then you should follow the recommendation of the envi committee the recommendation of the envi committee is this resolution. so anyone who is against misleading the consumer by advertising on food packaging would have to vote yes here - just to explain, because very confusing lobbying information has been sent around.
the president shall decide on the order of voting in accordance with our rules of procedure. i've made up my mind. we shall now vote en bloc. i ask for a vote on the remaining paragraphs. (disturbance in the hall)
thank you, thank you. i got it. the vote on the motion for a resolution was taken by a large majority. the overwhelming majority of the house wants an en bloc vote and i have allowed that en bloc vote.
i'm not going to let you down. where roll-call votes are requested, the president shall put them to the vote individually. that is article 161 (5) of the constitution. the president may - but does not have to - ask the plenary whether he can put proposals which complement each other to the vote en bloc. that's obvious. i did. i asked you. that is article 161 (6). i 'll read it to you . the president may put other amendments, which are complementary, to the vote en bloc. in this case, it shall apply the procedure laid down in paragraph 5. that means the president is asking the house to take a decision. i did. i have done enough to satisfy the rules of procedure. if you think i should deal with such requests individually and not en bloc, please let me know at the conference of presidents. in future we shall vote on each amendment separately. i had the impression that you were interested in efficient work. if not, we'll do it differently.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i have to say, madam president, i too have agreed with the watson report. the rapporteur's report deals with the general treatment of schemes in the european union. it requires that all eu activities, economic and political relations be based on our values and standards, and that human rights be respected in any dialogue. and furthermore - and this is particularly important to me - the european union should speak with one voice to achieve even greater efficiency in restrictive measures. so far, so good i could say. but what always bothers me is that when there are actual upheavals in such regimes, when there are revolutions, when people try to take their human rights into their own hands, the european union always seems to me to be too unprepared. so i simply ask that we work together - together with the commission - in a strategic way to know more precisely what is happening in these countries, so that we can apply sanctions precisely where they are effective.
i have to say, madam president, knowing that sometimes, of course, it's also a change on a border path, when you provide humanitarian aid, you can't choose the regimes sometimes. i can understand that. we have also come together as the european union to help people in need. but the other side of this has to be just as clear: when you give aid, you have to know why you are giving it, and you have to be able to control whether the aid is coming in the way you want it to come in, and not in the form of corrupt governments and we don't get feedback. we simply have to claim this as a matter of course on a daily basis. of course, this also includes checking whether the aid is really effective. seeing if the aid actually arrives, seeing if the aid is efficient -- if we keep these two things, we'd be much further along in the story. transparency is a minimum requirement, and it is simply part of the job. i have therefore voted in favour of the report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i am naturally pleased that mr antoniozzi has drawn such a positive conclusion from the report, which is celebrating its 40th anniversary this year and which we have given three priorities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the steel industry in the community. i would like to speak in particular about the central theme, the reform of the penalties guidelines. the key here is to accept that the european commission's antitrust policy is an important instrument for deterring and publicly enforcing antitrust law in the european union as a whole. however, we in the european parliament believe that there is an urgent need to clarify guidelines 1/2003 so that in the future it is easier to predict the penalties that a company will face if it does not comply adequately with these laws. secondly, we want to urge the commission to introduce a special regime for small and mediumsized enterprises, so-called monoproduct businesses, because otherwise there will be difficulties and there will be no comparability with other enterprises. the report is very positive and i am very pleased that it has been approved.
in writing. − i abstained in the motion for a resolution on the european council meeting of 30 january 2012 in view of paragraph 6 of the resolution, which calls for a timetable for the introduction of stability bonds. i think that such a roadmap is wrong at the present time, because it would only lead to a 'reward' for the indebtedness of some member states and to the morally unjustified joint liability of other member states. in the distant future, the euro area will of course have an interest in a common liquid bond market as an alternative to the us dollar bond market, in order to make the euro a safe currency worldwide and to replace the dollar in this respect. the conditions for this are far from being met, however, since the southern european member states in particular do not yet have the insight into sound budgetary, fiscal and stability policies.
in writing. - in our opinion on the european dimension of sport, we have just recognised the central role of sport in our society and its enormous contribution to human and social development. most of the work in sports is done on a voluntary basis. this too cannot be emphasized often enough. it is therefore important to me that we all support the efforts of the people on the ground. it is therefore worthwhile, in the future, to ensure that support for sport is as much as possible embedded in all relevant funding programmes. unfortunately, the draft regulations on cohesion policy do not yet mention sport, even though other areas are mentioned where sport can make a significant contribution. i would urge that we should mention it explicitly. this would provide a good basis for the countries' operational programmes. the proposal for a sports programme within the erasmus for all programme is also a good approach. i particularly like the idea that rather than promoting top-level sport, the idea is to promote sports and volunteering. potential social problems such as racism, exclusion, drug addiction or crime can be tackled here, and it's also fun to explore your physical and mental limits as part of a team.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday, 2 february 2012.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 9 february 2012, pursuant to rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday: no change. tuesday:the green group/european free alliance has asked for the debate on the oral question on the feasibility of introducing stability bonds following the joint debate on the eu-morocco agreement to be placed on the agenda. the green group wants to speak on this? mr cohn-bendit, please.
thank you very much, mr swoboda. i will of course investigate the matter, obtain the relevant documents and, should mrs lunacek's honour and integrity as a member of this house be attacked, take appropriate action to defend her. i will also be in contact with commission president barroso about the extent to which the commission must do the same to protect mrs kroes. where appropriate, the two institutions may act jointly and in agreement.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to start this plenary session by addressing a matter which is of great concern to me, and which must be of great concern to us all. it's about a young saudi journalist named hamza kashgari. this young journalist has been charged in malaysia for blasphemous statements on his twitter account. he was extradited to saudi arabia at the request of saudi arabia. he is facing death threats in saudi arabia for these alleged blasphemous remarks and is to be executed. there is no doubt that the religious feelings of each person should be respected. a journalist has to do the same. but freedom of speech and freedom of thought are also universal values that we all have to defend. that a young journalist should be executed in saudi arabia for a tweet, for a poem, is certainly absolutely unacceptable. therefore, with your consent, i will do everything i can to prevent this execution. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i have also been told by a number of colleagues over the weekend and today that the dutch pvv party has set up a website calling for complaints about eu citizens from central and eastern european countries who have come to the netherlands under the free movement of workers. commissioner viviane reding has already issued a very critical statement on this website. she stressed that we are an open continent where citizens can move freely and work wherever and whenever they want. i will, at the request of many colleagues on this site, without knowing them personally or being able to say anything about their content, make further enquiries and, in a meeting with the dutch prime minister, mr rutte, scheduled for 1 march, will raise this matter, which, after reading mrs reding's comments, is of the utmost concern to me.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question.
i think, mr speroni, that you have not been listening attentively, otherwise you could not have made that remark.
woman in the field! i must say again that many colleagues have asked me about this. i don't even know this website yet. i'll get the information you need. i will contact mrs reding and, if necessary, ask the committee on civil liberties to look into the matter. i would like to recommend to every member that he or she should support mrs wortmann-kool's proposal, because it is a documentary tool.
the next item is the commission statement on the situation of the homeless in europe as a result of the cold snap.
before i start the debate, i have to give you a hint. a lot of colleagues have signed up for the catch the eye procedure. i have to tell you that the agenda stipulates that there will be only one round of group speakers. so i'm sorry, but i can't do the catch the eye procedure.
madam guillaume, you have not used all your speaking time. you had 30 seconds left, and the poor interpreters had a hard time following you. maybe next time you could talk for four minutes, but a little slower.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the cold wave is exposing blatant failures in the enforcement of human rights in europe and within the european union. the policy in the member states and in the european union has failed on this issue on all fronts. more than 600 people have died so far during the cold wave sweeping across europe: over 80 dead in poland, over 130 in ukraine, hundreds of dead in russia, and the first victims are also being mourned in germany. most of the people who get frostbite or who come to the hospital with severe frostbite are homeless, people who live on the streets for a variety of reasons. they freeze in the open, under bridges, in parks, in back streets, but increasingly also in unheated apartments. they have been unable to pay their energy bills because of massive increases in energy costs, such as heating oil, their heating systems are flooded or have been completely shut down. all member states are obliged to take urgent emergency measures to save people exposed to the cold without protection. local and regional authorities must be supported in taking the necessary measures to help. i think it is a pity that no one can say at the moment exactly how many homeless people there are in the european union at the moment, how many people are at risk of freezing to death. there are no common indicators within the european union, no statistics to show the actual extent, not even in germany. we call for the creation of a task force at the european commission to make emergencies, particularly those affected in the individual regions, clearly visible and to be able to organise emergency aid. we call for uniform statistics throughout the eu, indicators which can give a complete, differentiated and group-oriented picture of the extent of homelessness. member states should be encouraged to legislate in this respect. we call for the introduction of eu-wide programmes for the energy-efficient renovation of housing. the structural funds should be able to provide much more in this area. and we propose a debate on eu-wide minimum social and environmental standards against poverty, housing shortages and energy poverty. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already done so. in 2009, the european parliament decided to set up a european observatory on counterfeiting, in particular, in order to collect reliable and objective data on the actual number of counterfeit and imitation products, rather than relying solely on data provided by producers and traders. the observatory, which only really started operating in 2010, was a complete success. it has become a centre of excellence for collecting information and data on all counterfeit products, such as medicines, toys and car parts, which threaten the lives and health of our citizens. this body, which was co-managed by the commission, was in effect only a co-management body and therefore had to be restructured and given more human and material resources in view of the increase in its tasks. in order to achieve this, we have decided, for reasons of cost and efficiency, not to create a new agency but to use an existing agency and to transfer the tasks of the observatory to the office for harmonisation in the internal market in alicante. in fact, this agency has 650 staff who are already technically responsible for the registration of community trade marks and designs. i would like to point out once again to my british colleague, who has unfortunately left us, that this agency can operate at a cost-neutral level because it is self-financing from the fees for these brands, so that we can simply, so to speak, add a little to an existing agency and benefit from the fees. i would also like to point out once again that the recitals are the only ones which are intended to examine and mention the problem of data theft, but that the observatory is mainly concerned with piracy of trade marks and products. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i can answer that question with a resounding yes. that's the point of the question. i think it is really regrettable that statements have been made here without any specific knowledge. i also come from a liberal party which is extremely concerned with cost and efficiency, and i hope, of course, that the staff present will do their job properly. but above all, i hope that this agency will continue to operate at a cost-neutral level, financed by fees and not by subsidies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner barnier, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to say that i believe that this agreement, which we have reached here on the basis of a proposal from the commission, will be a decisive step forward in educating young people about the consequences that piracy and the purchase of counterfeit goods can have on their health and on the european economy. in this context, i would like to recall the very positive initiative taken by the european trade mark office to create a european prize following the establishment of this observatory, a prize for the best ideas from young people on how to better communicate the negative consequences of piracy of products or the purchase of counterfeit goods. mr masip hidalgo was with me - and with you, commissioner - in brussels last week when we were able to present some really excellent short films, which were also awarded by the commission and which, in very simple language and without automatically raising any moral objections, show the difficulties faced by european industry in relation to piracy and counterfeit products. i believe that, despite all the differences of opinion, we in this house are united in the view that we need a better, more comprehensible and more communicative strategy to show young people in particular what the misuse of internet opportunities can ultimately mean for the european economy, for the jobs of parents. we need more action here. we are on a very good path, but, commissioner barnier, i think we should try to make this path permanent and not only reward really good ideas but also feed them into european political communication.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. first of all, i notice that the button on my microphone apparently works, so i have freedom of speech. it is quite obvious that better access to and better interconnection of commercial registers are of great importance and desirable, as is the importance of commercial registers for legal transactions and the economy. the first company directive, which deals with the establishment of commercial registers and their contents, dates back to 1968. it is hereby amended, together with the directives on branches and mergers. since 2007, the commercial registers have to be kept electronically. it is also clear that the potential of this electronic management is only realised if, instead of sending files centrally through the area, communication between the registers is electronic and can also be accessed from outside, and finally - which is very important - if everyone participates and not just a few. a distinction must be made between the communication between registers, in particular between head offices and branches, and the access and cross-border consultation of registers by citizens, businesses and consultants. parliament welcomed the commission's initiative from the outset and noted that in the course of the discussions agreement was reached on all the relevant points between the commission, the council and parliament. i should like to thank all my colleagues in the group of the european people's party, but also the commission, which has made a very good contribution to this. i would like to thank not only the danish presidency but also, and above all, the polish presidency, which has worked very hard on the details and has taken them forward. i would like to make a few brief points. a platform will be created, accessible through the e-justice portal. it was important to us and it is guaranteed that this platform does not have to be operated by the commission itself, but that it is the responsibility of the commission, i.e. public law. the registers are too sensitive and too important to be left entirely to private institutions. i would like to point out that in future there will be a core of information available free of charge in all the official languages, that unnecessary administrative burdens for businesses, such as the establishment of the codes, will be avoided and data protection will be guaranteed, and that the registers will be updated much more quickly in the future. the commercial registers are and remain national and regional. it's not going to change. only access and communication between registers are regulated. the standards of the registers vary, and unfortunately so does the reliability. it is particularly important that the legal meaning of the contents of the registers differs from one country to another. this is a source of potential serious misunderstandings, especially for untrained users. therefore, the presentation must be informed and information provided. there are a number of technical details to be worked out before the whole thing is up and running. as the registers are maintained by the member states, parliament has agreed that these technical details will be ensured by the commission and the member states in the framework of implementing acts, in a learning by doing manner. we can only lay the legal foundations for the establishment of the whole and ensure that everyone has to participate, which has not been the case so far. there is still a lot of work to be done in the practical implementation. i hope that this will work properly in practice as soon as possible and that substantial progress will be made in the internal market. i wish you the best of luck with that.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the linking of business and trade registers is another milestone on the road to creating a european area of law. i am pleased that this subject, which is so important for our small and mediumsized businesses in particular, and which i also campaigned for and promised to work on, has now been successfully translated into a directive after trilogue negotiations. there are two things at stake here: on the one hand, it is a question of making it easier for citizens and businesses to access trade registers across national borders. in the past, for example, if you wanted to consult a greek commercial register, you had to hire a greek lawyer who, of course, had to speak your own language or at least a common language. this was ultimately a waste of time and money. now it's going to be done through a platform. the special feature of the platform is that i can ask questions in my own language and also receive an answer in my own language. the second is that the commercial registers should not only cooperate on a voluntary basis as they have done in the past, but should also cooperate in a more institutionalised way. unfortunately, it has not always been possible to rely on entries in trade registers of other member states, especially as regards the registration of branches in foreign member states. we have now also included in this that registrations should be made immediately or at the latest after 21 days, provided, of course, that the conditions are met. each company and branch shall be identified by a number. the existing national trade registers are not only kept in the national language, but also differ in many respects de facto and de jure, such as their legal significance and the reliability of the data collected. the aim of the directive is merely to link the national registers in a purely technical way and not to harmonize the national systems. it is nevertheless a measure of great practical benefit to the economy, in order to promote further integration of the internal market and to strengthen legal clarity and certainty for businesses and citizens. i hope that we will be able to complete the considerable technical effort and also the software effort that will be necessary for this in time for 2014.
member of the commission. - mr president, i thank you all for your support of this initiative, in particular mr silvestris, mrs ţicău, mr zemke, mrs băsescu and mr baldassarre, who have all given their financial support to this project. i would also like to say to mr baldassarre and to each of you that this project is of interest to companies, both large and small. mr baldassarre had the opportunity, particularly when he presented this report on the patent, to show the personal attention he paid to the place and role of small and mediumsized enterprises. mrs regner, you also supported this initiative and mentioned the idea that we should go further by having a genuine common european register. i personally think it makes sense that we have such common tools in the perspective of the single market. we were talking about the trademark office earlier. i could talk about the patent office. for companies, a common register could be useful, but as you can see, mrs regner, we are building europe and this single market step by step. today this mutualising network, interconnecting national networks, this common access point is a first step. that's how you have to understand things. i would also like to say to mrs thein, who mentioned the fact that this platform is operated in the native language of each speaker, that it is indeed important that we can do this, especially with modern electronic means. we do this on the patent by accelerating the research work on software that will allow to deliver quality translations in all languages immediately. this is something that will be facilitated both for the imi network and for this interconnection of trade registers or the european patent. i thank mr karim for what he said about the single market act. mr karim, as you can see, we are delivering, week after week, proposals that are all facilitating proposals for businesses, to create the most favourable ecosystem for innovation, mobility, export, trade, investment, venture capital. the commission has already put forward ten of the priority proposals. we are working on other proposals under the single market act and we will have the opportunity to come back to this with your committees this year for a second wave of proposals. the one you approve today, or tomorrow, is one of them. i would also like to tell mr paška or mrs flašíková that we are working on this networking of national registers and that this requires, mrs flašíková, the good cooperation of all the holders, all the promoters, the managers, the managers of the national networks for this to work well. finally, mr rübig and mrs macovei referred to the respect for the protection of personal data. yes, the project we are presenting today respects data protection. it's a very important part of the job. it should be remembered, however, that this is a matter of data which is already publicly available in relation to access to information on companies. but we have already taken care to consult the european data protection supervisor in advance. the proposal for a directive already referred to the provisions of the data protection directive for the processing of personal data. this provision had been rejected by the council. it was, thanks to you, reintroduced by parliament at the time of the trilogue and i am very pleased about that. that is what i wanted to say when i reiterated to your rapporteur, mr lechner, my sincere thanks for the quality of his work and the progress we are going to make together once again for the proper functioning of the internal market.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am grateful for the many positive contributions, which have shown that we all consider this project important, meaningful and necessary. and contrary to some general formulas and lofty words which are often chosen at european level, i would like to add, in a very self-critical way: this is a very concrete, measurable and also visible progress which will be achieved for the internal market. there are certainly a number of important technical questions, but they were not only technical but also substantive, and all of them could be settled by mutual agreement. i would like to point out, in the light of the contribution made by a colleague, that at the request of parliament the inclusion of third countries has been included in a consideration. the inclusion in the text of the directive itself was not possible for legal reasons. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it will be very difficult, and step by step it may be possible to achieve it. but this link will increase the importance of the registers, and perhaps one or other member state in europe will take this opportunity - without naming specific names - to check the reliability and accuracy of its register and to bring it into line with the other standards. that would be progress. so i hope that you will now get down to business and we will see the results in two years' time.
adopted on 13december.the commission has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the council's opinion on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1612/1999 on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men andwomen in matters of social security. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has also dealt in depth with the sepa issue, because it is also very much about consumer protection. i can say that i am very satisfied with the compromise reached, because it also incorporates some of the issues we decided in our committee. it is a very good thing that we can tell consumers that they are also being considered in the financial markets, although this impression is not always so strong. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it is time to reduce these barriers and to stop them being a barrier to european mobility. i very much welcome the fact that in future, in the euro payments area, all businesses and consumers will be able to carry out their banking transactions through an account with any bank in europe. this is a very important question, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. but not just for them, but also for consumers who are mobile, who are on holiday, who want to make transfers. it was also a very good thing that we made sure that there was a uniform timetable for the introduction of both credit transfers and other direct debit procedures. it would not have been good for consumers to have two different times. that would have caused more confusion. clearness and legal certainty - that is what we need and what we have achieved here. the third and final point i would like to mention is the information of citizens. that's important too. many people are afraid of this new sepa number, the new iban, because it seems too long. but if you tell them clearly and clearly how it is made, it is not so difficult and so complicated. so, very important: an information campaign so that the citizens know what it is about.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, thank you for the good cooperation, including with you, mr barnier. the background to this whole report is, of course, that europe needs a common internal market and a common payment area. it has been shown how long it takes to refuse european standards, to delay them rather than to shape them together. it would have been possible to have done all this - and mrs sophie was right - more quickly, and it would probably have been possible to achieve something for consumers more quickly, and it would not have taken so long for small and mediumsized enterprises to meet the necessary standard. the big question now was what happens to the right of return. we in parliament wanted this right to return direct debits to be enforced. the commission will thankfully be following up on this. it is important, however, that the unconditional right of return can remain at national level, because this is the basis for preventing a conversion chaos of several hundred million existing direct debits in germany. secondly, it is equally important that parliament has succeeded in making the electronic direct debit system, which is established in germany and which saves many millions of dollars a year, fundamentally european. finally, it is important to note that the future of democracy will also be in the area of payments. i thank you, mr barnier, for having accepted our proposal that in future the european payments council should not only set the standards but also make the field of payments part of the field of democracy. i look forward to continuing our work in this area.
blue-card question. – madam president, i would just like to ask the honourable member one question. mr chountis, i feel in full solidarity with the poor in greece who are having to bear the cost of this crisis at the moment. i fully feel responsibility, and also co-responsibility, for the european integration project. but what i do not understand is this. you made very specific points on the single euro payments area (sepa) and about what had to change, but i did not see you at the shadow meetings. we had a very open process to work on this. i did not see you or your staff. so i would like to know why you are now asking questions here on the report, when you had the responsibility and the opportunity to defend them yourself. this is doublespeak.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. i would like to make three brief points on this question. first of all, i very much welcome the commission's intention to put the fight against youth unemployment at the centre of its policy. creating hope and a future for young people is our concern, it is very important to us. secondly, i welcome the fact that the commission is increasingly seeing that, particularly in economic crises, not only does a strict policy of austerity lead to success, but that investment is also necessary. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thirdly, i want to say quite clearly and frankly: the way it has been written in the media, mr barroso has given the impression that he can raise 82 billion euros in this european union, with the idea that the money in the cohesion policy would not be used properly anyway; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. 82 billion almost a quarter of the total cohesion policy budget until 2013! i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. how can we organize this so that all the regions are doing something completely different and then, because youth unemployment is not so high in their regions, they also make some of it available to other countries? the reaction of the regions was already startling. i've had a lot of calls asking, "what's going to happen now?" are we going to lose our money? what the hell is this? i'm warning you. the cohesion policy is indeed a highly successful policy, the most visible and comprehensible to the citizens. it builds trust. if we now use vague statements such as 'we have money left over' to give the impression that bad policy has been made or that a few billion can be acquired, this does not create additional trust but only insecurity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am therefore very surprised that the member states are still prepared to pay and to provide additional funds for cohesion policy. i think we have to be very careful here to make sure that we are indeed pursuing the right policies and that we are supporting countries with high youth unemployment. but i also want to make sure that we don't make people more insecure in times that are already difficult.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i welcome the fact that the council has taken up parliament's proposals and is taking action to combat youth unemployment. the youth guarantee proposed by mr barroso, or rather the one quoted, was a green proposal in a green owninitiative report in this house. but unlike him, i think that the focus should be on disadvantaged young people. this requires decentralized action. these are much more suitable. the esf money should remain locally and be re-used there if deemed appropriate locally. this is to be sent to mr barroso's address. our group also supports the council decision on the green economy. it was also a green own-initiative report, adopted by a large majority in this house two years ago. that is why we are calling for the green economy to be given priority in the reprogramming of the structural funds where initiatives are needed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the money cannot be thrown out of the window, but must be used for sustainable projects which will benefit future generations.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am surprised that we have to keep reminding ourselves what structural and cohesion policy actually means. cohesion and structural policy is one of the central policies of the european union and by definition aims to strengthen economic and social cohesion in the community, promoting growth and employment in particular in the less developed regions. the need for and success of cohesion and structural policies has been demonstrated in particular during the crisis years. in many regions, it would be even more difficult to achieve economic development if these funds were not available. the implementation of structural fund assistance is based on operational programmes, as already mentioned, which describe the strategy for the region concerned. the european union, the member states and the regions are working together in partnership to create real european added value. the success of cohesion and structural policies is also based on the reliability of the programmes and the resources made available and available. i am therefore very surprised that some member states, but also the commission, are trying to use the structural funds as a kind of savings bank for all sorts of current policies. this is not in keeping with the spirit and purpose of cohesion policy and is also unsettling to those actors in the regions who are already working towards achieving the objectives on the basis of long-term strategies and contracts. the fight against youth unemployment and the promotion of economic growth are certainly important objectives. however, these will only be achieved if partnership cooperation between the regions, the member states and the commission is maintained and the regional players continue to be involved. because they are the only ones who know what needs to be done in their regions. cohesion and structural policy is the only partnership and solidarity-based policy between the different levels of the european union. it is a reflection of the solidarity europe which exists in the regions and should not be abandoned lightly because of political shortcuts.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it was an initiative of the liberals, who pointed out that absorption capacities in several member states are low. and as rapporteur of the report i have pointed out the causes. the commission must now take appropriate action. we also support the commission in its efforts to bring about action in the countries with problems - greece, romania, bulgaria, southern italy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have to start there! the key is also to build the capacity to solve the problems. the impression that people have is that the real economy is not functioning properly, as in greece, and that the government is taking measures but not implementing them. the important thing is that we don't just go in a car and hit the gas pedal and nothing happens. now we need to get a gear in so that we can get some thrust on the wheels! the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment, and it is not the commission's intention to do so.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm still a little surprised. after years of austerity, mr barroso and his colleagues in the council have successfully pushed unemployment and social cuts under the umbrella of the crisis, now the unemployed are being discovered. as important as the subject is, it certainly sounds like a mockery when you see the promotional film on europarltv here, where it talks about additional funds. i simply ask you, mr hahn, in which wallet do you keep the 82 billion euros? we all know that things are going to be happening until 2013 and now we're on the verge of closing actually already scheduled. we shouldn't work with tricks. we should not talk as if everyone could now receive the same funds or receive enough funds. what is the situation with ireland, for example, which has exhausted its resources so far? what advice would you give to the irish government on tackling youth unemployment? we need to give a boost to employment policy to reduce youth unemployment. i can see that. but we also need real money. we have to be on board. and of course we need other things, like reasonable redundancy protection, or actually decent work. in conclusion, i would like to say what we do not need: we do not need macroeconomic conditionality in the next funding period, we should not even start with it. we now realize what that means.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. what's the story today? the point is that we, as fisheries policy-makers, want to adopt multiannual plans for our fish stocks to put an end to overfishing in our seas. multiannual plans are the key instrument of fisheries policy! the fish we are talking about today, the stork, is just one example of many. we want management plans for all commercially exploited fish species. we have already sat in this house once, exactly 16 months ago, and adopted parliament's position on this multiannual plan. the attempt to negotiate with the council had been made beforehand. unfortunately, that did not happen, because the fisheries ministers of the european union seem to want to work on important issues without parliament. in the last 16 months the council has not moved an inch on this issue. you're being stubborn. stubbornness is not a bad quality in politics, but in this case it is scandalous. the council has managed to ensure that there are no new long-term management plans at all. as if the balance of power between the institutions were more important than a sensible policy for our fishermen, for our environment, for our citizens! if we want people to be happy with the european union, we have to deliver results. we have not done that in the fisheries policy for two years now. the european fisheries policy has hitherto been in the hands of the council of ministers alone. unfortunately, the result is a disaster. the fact that the ministers now have the idea of not wanting to continue the parliament is a rather bad joke in this context! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. ladies and gentlemen of the council, please go back inside and manoeuvre your way out of this dead end as quickly as possible.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the debate on the sustainable management of the stock is of course also a welcome opportunity to discuss what the common fisheries policy should look like in europe for the next seven, ten or twenty years. we must recognize that what has been the practice so far, and is supported by the relevant implementing provisions of the commission and its officials, has not proved to be the case in all areas. but we should not throw away the best instruments. i am thinking here of relative stability, so that we can have clarity on how quotas are allocated, that we do not want the valuation of quotas, of tacs, which are then deposited in banks, but the exchange of quotas in the individual sea areas. and we're right at the heart of a central question that deals with how we deal with our resources in the oceans as a whole, when we talk about discards, about discards. we have to find a solution. the same is true when you talk about how resources are allocated in a playful way. if we look at our birds of prey or our seals, these are all reserves which we cannot simply give away lightly in europe, where we are a huge market of 500 million people who consume 8 million tonnes of fish and fishery products. we are a huge import market, and that is why it is necessary to give a future to coastal fishing and artisanal fishing, and that means that we should also provide the means for the financial support of young fishermen, entrepreneurs who eventually want to take over a licence, a boat. we do that with young farmers! we cannot just talk about it and say, for god's sake, no investments in the fleet! no, that's wrong! we are partly sailing on 60-year-old fishing vessels powered by age-old diesel engines. they're the biggest polluters, and we don't spend a penny to renew the fleet. i think we need to discuss these issues together. modern fisheries: of course, the quota must be in a reasonable relation to the propulsion powers, and of course we need a reasonable fisheries control. but if we draw up multiannual plans for cod in the baltic sea, for example, and the commission and its officials say again, you must provide for additional controls so that even small open boats without a row house keep a logbook... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my question is to commissioner andor. as you know, my group has been calling for a revision of the posting of workers directive for a very long time, and i very much regret that the commission has not yet complied with this. there are many reasons for this: we have massive social dumping, the principle of equal treatment applies to too few criteria. and then there is the frequent abuse of posted workers by non-compliance with regulations. what we need is a reduction in subcontracting chains, more information for workers. i therefore look forward with great interest to the commission's proposals on the postings package. my question is: what does the commission's proposal for an enforcement directive do to eliminate the problems i mentioned in the posting directive? and above all, does the proposal also take measures to prevent the well-known social dumping?
a concrete question: you said that there were a number of improvements to be made to the original directive. in my initial question i had asked for the limitation of subcontracting chains, for improved information facilities for workers, for improved control mechanisms. i also wanted to know what concrete measures are being taken to prevent social dumping in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commissioner, mr barnier, as rapporteur for the services directive, i had helped to ensure that services of general economic interest and the provision of services were excluded from the scope of the services directive. at the same time, i said that it was absolutely necessary to regulate these services at european level to protect them. we have now the treaty of lisbon with its additional protocol 26, which gives the commission a mandate. president barroso promised us that he would do so, and we are now waiting for the european commission to take substantial action in this area. my question is: when will you, commissioner, be able to give us a legislative text? i think it does. it is not because we want to regulate these services, but because we want to ensure that these services remain in the hands of the competent persons and institutions in the member states, and at the highest possible level of quality.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. with your permission, commissioner. i don't see it that way. what you have just proposed is a fragmentation of the legislation, and not the implementation of what is stated in protocol 26 of the treaty of lisbon, which clearly states that we need a legal framework to regulate the protection of these services in the general economic interest. and that's something very different from what you just described. i wanted to know when you actually intend to put the treaty on european union into practice.
in writing. - i have approved the report. the report is a logical follow-up to the process of achieving uniform and workable protection of property rights in the eu. even in the face of the controversial debates around acta, it makes sense that the groundwork is being created. acta needs to be discussed longer and more intensively. if necessary, changes will have to be made here too. the most important thing is that the citizens of the union should not be afraid of a trade agreement.
in writing. - i have approved the report. better networking and easier access to company data is a natural necessity in a growing community.
in writing. − i support the conclusion of a framework agreement between the eu and morocco, which will lead to a closer partnership. the events of the so-called arab spring have shown the potential and the will for change in the mostly very young population of the arab countries. the eu has a unique opportunity to contribute to this positive development, which has already begun, through a framework agreement and relevant eu programmes. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. - i think it is more than appropriate to improve the conditions for vaccination against bluetongue. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of animals are respected. this would allow for universal vaccination coverage even in areas that have not been affected by the disease before. in view of the fact that germany, belgium, the netherlands and luxembourg will declare themselves free from bluetongue as from 15 february 2012, a rapid resolution of this problem is advisable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis.
in writing. - it is almost a year since the european parliament considered the adaptations to the bluetongue vaccination directive at first reading. the aim was to be able to use the new rules in the 2011 vaccination season. the hesitant handling of the issue in the council meant that the proposed changes could not apply until the 2012 vaccination season at the earliest. the present agreement is due entirely to the european parliament's willingness to compromise. the council has blocked the adoption of the directive because it was required to provide evidence of transposition into national legislation by means of correlation tables. the compromise of parliament ensures that bluetongue is successfully controlled and that the interests of farmers are protected. i now call on the member states to start implementing the new rules as soon as possible. preventive vaccination without the risk of undesirable circulation of the vaccine virus prevents losses to farmers and restrictions on trade. the adaptation of the directive thus underlines the paradigm shift in the european animal health strategy from a method of hatching to a vaccination strategy.
in writing. - no vote is required here, as no amendments were tabled. a new vaccine can now be used to vaccinate cattle, goats and sheep to prevent bluetongue. although germany is officially free of bluetongue from tomorrow, the inactivated vaccine is considered a significant advance over previous methods.
in writing. − bank transfers will be made using a single system throughout the eu. the iban account number used for international transfers will become the standard. the bic is also to be phased out in the medium term. the german system of direct debits is retained. the solution seems logical and consistent. i agreed to it.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would also like to thank all those who contributed to the compromise and made it a success. it is vital that we provide food aid, especially at a time like this. almost 19 million people are now dependent on food aid. it is an act of european solidarity that europe is helping at this point. we must not only think about those two years, but we must also start to develop the new programme for the years after that. after that, poverty will not be over, and we cannot accept that we will say: 'that was it.' we must work towards this, because it is no longer just a question of eliminating surpluses from the overcrowded stocks of the european union, but we must move towards a regional partnership between farmers and aid to those in need, which will ensure that there is eventually help for those living in poverty. and this can only be done in conjunction with farmers and the poor. we have proposed that the tables should be included for germany. it is important that we continue this kind of food aid as european aid beyond the time limit. we welcome the fact that countries like germany have now abandoned the blockade and we hope that countries like germany will also cooperate in the future on a new approach.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. some 18 million europeans suffer from hunger and are dependent on food aid. this cannot and must not happen in europe! the aid programme we are discussing today grew out of the surpluses of the common agricultural policy of long ago. mr siekierski has already pointed this out. the cap we have changed it. but the hunger is still there. the transitional solution now proposed will only ensure supply until 2013. the question is, what comes next? we need to clarify responsibilities. the eu's agricultural policy cannot in principle provide social aid. it is the fundamental duty of every state to provide and guarantee the basic needs of its own population. but that does not in any way exclude european solidarity. support programmes must be implemented and accountable at national level. then they're sustainable. the situation of the needy must be improved in the long term. the commissioner invites you to join the round table with the member states concerned and the european union to work together to find solutions to the problem of hunger. on the other hand, the scale of food waste is shameful. about 50% of them end up in the garbage! we need a new culture of appreciation for our food. but we also need information and education to help us learn how to manage our food properly. if one third of all adults can no longer cook, it is no wonder that many people cannot afford basic food. this is an ethical, but also an economic and social problem. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. still, it is cheaper and healthier to eat basic foods. that is why we should also learn in education to deal with the fact that you can make a potato, a carrot into a very healthy food. this also helps to combat poverty and hunger in europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank mr nicholson for his successful negotiations. we decided to abandon the previous system of milk quotas, which was costly and distorted the market, and we analysed the findings of the high level group on milk. the milk package now negotiated is an important first step towards a market-oriented and competitive milk sector. the creation of trade associations, which may negotiate contracts on behalf of their members, is encouraged. the negotiating power of milk producers will be strengthened: they will be able to negotiate on equal terms if they wish. it's also a good thing we're not shooting over the target. these contracts may not cover more than 33% of the national and 3,5% of the european market. this will ensure that no new imbalances arise and that the necessary market freedom is maintained. since there is no general contractual obligation, the entrepreneurial freedom of decision of the individual farmer is guaranteed. this is an important element for a functioning market. we liberals will support the milk package and i ask for it to be approved in the vote in plenary tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the target was missed, i must say, although the path taken was correct. i am not saying that there has been any increase in production, as my colleague mrs reimers has said. producers are allowed to pool their resources on the european market at a rate of 3.5%. but we already have dairies on the european market that are already bundling over 6% of the milk supply. is that fair? i say clearly no. we need more bundling for the dairy farmers. we have the contracts. yeah, that's a good one. but we left them voluntarily because the majority of member states did not want these treaties. it's not gonna make a difference in the market. there is hardly any talk of prices in the contracts. in the end, many dairy farmers have nothing of substance to do with it. we had suggested that we should also consider what happens after we have stopped producing milk. we had proposed that we should discuss a monitoring centre in which producers, dairies and, ultimately, the european union would consider adjusting the quantities on the markets. that, too, has been substantially diluted. the milk crisis is behind us, yes. but i'm pretty sure the next milk crisis is just around the corner. we have a lot of increasing production, and we have decreasing prices. what are we going to do next time there's a milk crisis? we are not going to use taxpayers' money to pay for export promotion to bring quantities out of the european market. this can't be the answer. we therefore call on the commission to present its report earlier, which it intends to present in 2014, and to put forward real proposals for post-quota solutions now. we need to talk about this. i have the impression that many member states are thinking more of their dairy industry than of the dairy farmers. it can't stay that way. we are not giving the european milk producers with this package really good instruments and no prospects for the future. that is why our group will reject it!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i also thank mr nicholson for this report, which he has written and negotiated in the trilogue, and i thank all the other parties for this compromise. the commission is well on its way, but the impact will be very different in the member states. in germany, this milk package will have little impact. we already had producer groups under the market structure law. many farmers in germany are organised in cooperatives, i.e. they already market their milk and milk products together. the contractual relations are governed by the statutes. in the private sector, these supply contracts already exist. unfortunately, this milk package is not going to solve any of our fundamental problems. this milk package regulates relations between producers and dairies. the most serious problem, however, is the relationship between the dairy industry and the retail trade. this is not an indictment of the people involved. we are not responsible for this as farmers, but i ask you, commissioner, to work within the commission to ensure that we settle other issues, such as the payment targets for milk products, on the basis of this milk package. it is not possible that farmers deliver products to the dairy the expiry date for fresh milk is three days and the retail chains pay only after sixty or eighty days. we have to find a way to regulate it. the second point is the listing fees, the discounts that have to be granted here. we need binding net prices in the milk sector to ensure transparency. the quantity arrangements are not binding, and the duration of the fixed price contract between the dairy and the retailer must be regulated. so there's still a lot of work to do. but my group, the epp, will certainly vote for this milk package by a large majority.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i welcome the approach of the regulation on contractual relations in the milk sector to strengthen the bargaining power of milk producers and to ensure fairer prices. it is important that we do not leave the milk producers in the rain after the milk quota has expired. the small and medium-sized family businesses in particular need to be supported by the european union and not left unprotected to the milk consumers and the retail trade. i would have liked very much, however, to have introduced a contractual obligation at member state level. the council and the commission have, however, resisted with their hands and feet. it's a pity the council isn't here now. the compromise now reached is, in my view, acceptable, but it is certainly not enough. we must therefore ensure that the forthcoming reform of the common agricultural policy takes account of small and medium-sized milk producers in particular. my main concern will remain to fight for a comprehensive, sustainable and multifunctional agriculture in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the committee on agriculture voted against the eu-morocco trade agreement in its opinion. i think that we had very good reasons for this. the effects of opening up the european market, particularly in the agricultural sector, have not been fully studied. there must be no competitive disadvantage for either side. we expect that imports from morocco must also meet european standards, that is to say, working conditions, social standards, anti-dumping regulations, food safety, environmental standards, health and plant protection standards. we expect the commission to monitor and enforce the timetables and the tariff quotas. it is also essential that the rights of minorities in morocco are adequately protected. all the areas of the agreement must also be negotiated with the consent and for the benefit of the entire population there, and i include western sahara. i am a strong advocate of the principle of minority protection being implemented in any eu agreement. despite these concerns - or because of them - it is also important that the eu is a strong partner in morocco's development. a stable democracy is inseparable from a strong economy and a corresponding standard of living for its people. that is why, as shadow rapporteur, i will vote for the agreement tomorrow. the 'no' vote by the committee on agriculture was a signal to morocco, but also to the european negotiating partners, to be open and transparent and not to allow imbalances to arise. i would like to emphasize that i have the greatest respect for the colleagues in this parliament, including those in my group, who will vote against the agreement tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, i have a different view. this agreement is not comparable to the fisheries agreement. the fisheries agreement was not clear on where the money paid by the european union was going. we have clear rules here as to who benefits, and these are indeed producers in morocco, but also european investments flowing into morocco. so the situation is quite different. it is also quite clear that this agreement does not legitimise the situation in western sahara. no, we are saying clearly that a solution must be found in the interests of the people. and we are making that clear with the resolution! but we cannot send the signal to the arab spring that we are always shutting down our markets per se. we need to offer solutions for fair trade so that there can really be a change through trade. and that means that if there are really disruptions in agriculture in the european union, then we must ensure that our farmers have development prospects within the european union. but we cannot just close the borders. this would be a signal that would amplify the disappointment in the arab spring. and for these reasons i shall recommend to my group that we approve the agreement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i find it exciting that we are all finding ourselves rejoicing together over the changes that the arab spring has brought to north africa. in every speech, at least on sundays, we all say that we have to help the people in this region. in other debates we have been following the flows of refugees coming to us from north africa. why would you do that? because of the still dire economic and political situation in many countries. every sunday we talk about helping people. now it is a matter of providing concrete help to people in a specific region, in a specific country. and now many of us are pinching and expressing concern. it is good to express concerns, but it is also part of the parliamentary procedure that we have taken up many of these concerns, that we have taken the time in the last weeks and months to take account of concerns from the committee on agriculture, for example, and to include things in our resolution. we have made a number of preconditions clear in our resolution, which is also to be put to the vote on thursday. we have also made it quite clear that if there are any real negative effects on european agriculture, we will demand that the european commission take appropriate steps and take appropriate action. but it would be extremely bad if our first signal to morocco were to say: we reject this agreement. the importance of this region for us is shown by the fact that the spanish prime minister, for example, is not making his first foreign visit after taking office to a country of the european union, but is going to the other side of the mediterranean, to the other side of the strait of gibraltar, to talk to the moroccans. this is also a clear sign that our political leaders have recognised that we need to engage in dialogue here. i firmly believe that this agreement is a small step. the impact on our agriculture should be limited and we must also monitor it closely. i think we can all agree on that. but we should not let the agreement fail on this issue, but we should support it.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not - i'm not sure. i am not going to go into detail. this situation reminds me of the moment when we decided here in parliament, across the political groups, that we also wanted a financial transaction tax at european level. tomorrow, i am convinced, there will be a large majority who want to see further steps towards common bonds in europe. this is important for the crisis. in this way, parliament is making it clear that stability bonds are not the devil's plaything - contrary to what some national parliaments or sections of the public like to say - but that they have important advantages. this is shown by this joint declaration. they have important advantages, they bring a deep market which is ultimately highly liquid and can therefore bring lower interest rates for all countries in europe in the long term. the prerequisite for collectively collateralized bonds is that fiscal policy is working, that budgets are sound. only if one is there can the ultimate large-scale collective secured bonds come about. but we must also be moderate in our tone, because we have long since secured bonds with the european investment bank, the efsf. however, it is also important, and this is the second point, that this resolution shows that the council's strategy to deal with the crisis so far is illusory. because different countries have major solvency problems, and that the participation of private creditors in greece is not done, simple economic calculations show. the problem of saving alone cannot solve the problems in the countries, nor can growth alone solve the problems. simple calculations by the kiel institute for the world economy show that the primary surpluses of countries such as portugal and greece, even after the debt reduction in greece, which has not yet been fully decided, are too high to finally bring the countries out of the crisis. that is why the model of the council of experts, lower interest rates for financing old debts, is important. i ask you, commissioner, to take this home to the college, and not to be distracted by the resistance of some member states! without low interest rates for all, there is no way out of the euro crisis. so you go back to the model of the council of experts. i would ask you to examine the other models and then come forward with a bold and determined proposal. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. eurobonds are an instrument that must be subject to strict conditions, such as a major contract change as a first condition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. there is also something hidden under paragraph 11 of the resolution. it says: 'reasonable legal conditions'. that won't be enough. amendment to the contract. secondly, the resolution as a whole is the result of an intensive exchange of views. i would like to thank mrs sylvie goulard very much for having managed to include in this resolution the call for eurobonds, but also the concerns raised about eurobonds and the preconditions. i therefore believe that, even if there is a desire to have separate votes at some point, we in the epp group will also vote in favour of this joint resolution by a large majority. but that does not mean that the problems are solved. for the introduction of eurobonds, there must be a treaty amendment supported by all 27 member states. even the proposals put forward by the german council of experts to assess economic developments cannot hide the fact that the common debt above 60% also requires new contractual bases. we are on a long way and contrary to paragraph 7 of the resolution, i believe that the commission has not put forward an excellent green paper but a poorly drafted one. madam vice president, you yourself confirmed it: there were only 18 interventions. i've never seen anything like this in 20 years. this is a sign that the commission has not done its job. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 14 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
question for the commissioner: the commission is not prepared to accept this. i'd like to ask you a question. are you aware that we have community bonds? and that the resolution does not speak of eurobonds in general terms, but of very different options? and are you aware that not all of these options require a contract amendment? i find it questionable that you have again singled out generalizations about eurobonds. the very difference we have achieved with mrs goulard's good proposal here should not be lost. i'd like to hear a little more differentiation in your utterances and i'm curious to see what you have to say about it.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i know that. i'm currently the project bond reporter at itre. of course, there can be joint eurobonds for investment via the european investment bank. this is the reality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. we do not need to lecture ourselves here, mr giegold. if we want to establish a common stability bond, the conditions must be met. i said no more, no less. i see no contradiction in that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we need to be a little more honest in this discussion. what was the situation before the euro was introduced? what were the interest rates in greece when the drachma was in existence, in italy when the lira was in existence, in spain when the peseta was in existence, in portugal when the escudo was in existence? they were significantly higher than what is currently being paid in the financial markets. the member states that have adopted the euro have been poisoned by low interest rates for ten years and have pursued a spending policy which they are no longer able to control. to say now, "i want to get this sweet poison through eurobonds but for even longer", is exactly the wrong reaction. many mistakes have been made here in the past, which must now be corrected. and if you think that you are solving the problem by making the drug available at low interest rates on a permanent basis, you are removing the pressure which, thank god, is now being exerted by the financial markets on a number of member states. secondly, europe will not be healthy if, through eurobonds, we do not help the sick to get well, but make the healthy sick! that is why we should be honest about this matter too. the european union is not strengthened by eurobonds, it is weakened by them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. where are we living? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry. that is the pooling of debts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i can only warn against pretending that eurobonds can solve all our problems. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i am not sure that this is the case. i'll just say, very briefly, this is not an evaluation i've made here. i just want to point out that the last italian government bond before italy went into the euro yielded 10%. and there was no outcry in italy! no one said that other countries should take over. it was obvious that high interest was paid. and now all of a sudden, because you've had ten years of low interest rates and you've gotten into all kinds of debt, because money has become cheap - for investment as well as for public hands - you want to prolong that through eurobonds. this is a trap we're not getting out of, and i'm in it!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i should like to thank our rapporteur, who has so successfully represented parliament's position in the negotiations with the council. thank you very much. more and more citizens in europe are using mobile internet services, and the trend is increasing. to illustrate this, let's look at a few more figures. in 2010 alone, the average monthly smartphone usage has doubled from 35 mb in 2009 to 79 mb. also in 2010, three million new tablets like the i-pad were connected to the mobile network. the data traffic is expected to increase in the future. experts predict that mobile data traffic will increase 26-fold between 2010 and 2015, and that 788 million people will be using the internet exclusively on mobile devices by 2015. in this context, the first european radio spectrum programme which we will adopt tomorrow will therefore play a special role. our aim is clear: to have more frequencies available for wireless broadband networks in the future than is the case today. the flood of data threatened to clog our previously available transmission pathways. more frequencies mean that we can use our mobile internet services smoothly in the future. if we adopt the radio frequency programme by a large majority tomorrow, we will have done something really good for our citizens in europe. as you all know, i am currently fighting for the new roaming regulation as rapporteur, and on another front, to advocate better conditions for mobile internet use. i think that surfing the internet abroad needs to be much cheaper. commissioner, you have already made a bold proposal. we want to be a little bolder in parliament because we want to achieve something for our european consumers. if the roaming dossier is then, hopefully, closed in the first half of this year, i would be delighted if you would call me the 'roaming angel'.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to add a little water to the wine that has just been so well served here, because from the point of view of cultural and media policy the council's common position is rather disappointing and cannot be satisfactory. frequencies are a scarce public good with considerable cultural and media policy significance. as long as broadcasting, for example, needs frequencies for its programmes, these are of particular importance for the media and freedom of expression in europe. the committee on culture had made a number of suggestions on how this could be taken into account. in addition to the clear formulations on the special role of broadcasting and its consideration, we have warned against opening the door to the second digital dividend even now. we had called for clear compensation rules to clarify that relocation-related costs, for example, for the acquisition of new technology in theatres, should be covered and that compensation should be provided for investments that first made the digital dividend possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i expect the commission and the member states to show, at least in their practical actions, that they are dealing with this public good in a responsible manner and not only in the sense of economic exploitation, and that they are aware of the importance of media diversity and the cultural interests of our society.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting of 1 and 2 march 2012 (2011/2918 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the president of the council just said it. the spring council is traditionally the european union's rendezvous with the social and economic realities in europe. but we all heard that the finance ministers cancelled their meeting in brussels yesterday to release the second aid package for greece. what does that mean? what does that mean? what does this mean for greece and what does it mean for europe? i believe that our common objective is to keep greece in the euro zone, and here i would like to reply to mr daul. i do not share what commissioner kroes said about greece remaining in the euro zone, but the reason why she said it and why so many are so impatient is the behaviour of her sister party, new democracy, in particular. if you could just get mr samaras to come to his senses, that would be very helpful. i think it would be better for all of us. we want to keep greece in the eurozone, but it is important to clarify one thing. the greek government has in the past promised much, but delivered little. the adoption of another austerity package is far from a guarantee that what has been promised will actually be implemented, but that is what matters now. it depends on structural reforms. then there will be other help. if the course is set correctly, greece can count on our support, but not as a preliminary step, but now we are looking at action. it has been said here that the situation in greece is indeed dramatic. and besides the necessary savings, mr swoboda, greece had a government deficit of 6.6% on average every year between 1991 and 2007, before the crisis. we now see the bill being presented for past bad policy. of course you don't envy people, that's perfectly clear. we want to get the country and the economy moving again, and the unions have an important role to play. in germany, they have played a constructive role in promoting competitiveness for many years. economic output has declined by 7% over the last three months. that is why we need real structural reforms now, i.e. tax reform that deserves the name. the drive to privatise key sectors such as energy production, ports, lotteries - all sorts of things where the state plays too big a role, and we need the reduction of the bloated state apparatus that has been decided upon now. this was the basis for parts of the greek political system. you just put your followers in any ministries, public authorities, public enterprises, in other words, the public sector is completely bloated. i would remind you that it was the liberal group which called for a marshall plan some time ago. we call this the hercules plan, and we're happy to work on it. but our group has also proposed three very concrete measures to promote growth and create jobs after the last council. this is addressed to the council. the implementation of the european patent, the use of unused funds provided for in the budget of the european union and a plan to reduce the risks of contagion within the eurozone. we want a debt-repayment pact for all of europe. we expect the council to finally address this. the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty)
if you had told us what question you asked mr lambsdorff, that would have been nice. (interruption of the debate) so the question is, have you already eliminated 21 members?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not i look around, and i don't want to throw out any of my colleagues sitting behind me. it is important to make clear that these remarks should not be overstated. one thing is clear, the patience of many is really running out. we want to see something happen in greece. then we are ready to help and to show solidarity. but the phase of promises must be replaced by the phase of implementation of measures. i think that is what is behind these remarks, and there is this one pars pro toto remark, that is not a single voice, but that we hear from many, many.
question for the commissioner: i would be very grateful if mr cohn-bendit could explain to me what he means by a taliban. the word "liberal taliban" is unknown to me, and the word "neoliberal taliban" is unknown to me. joseph daul has just come out as a liberal. i do not think joseph daul is a taliban, nor is he a neo-liberal taliban. we should be doing this shit here. what is really important - and i want to say this here, and mr cohn-bendit is right - is that we should treat each other with respect, all of us, and that applies also to the populations amongst themselves. greeks, germans, others respect in dealing with each other in the european union should always take precedence over wonderful rhetorical flowery, which is quite disrespectful.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the spring european council summit is traditionally devoted to the discussion of the european union's economic and employment policies, and more recently has been linked to the european semester. but this year the debate is likely to be overshadowed by the dramatic situation in greece. the example of greece is also particularly appropriate for discussing the failure of the european union's economic and financial policies. the european union has been plunged into its deepest crisis by the dominant policy of liberalization and privatization throughout the world. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the gatt agreement, and it has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the gatt agreement. the greek crisis is also a result of eu policy, as the eu 2020 strategy is vastly exacerbating the already existing macroeconomic imbalances between member states. these imbalances are now exploited by financial speculators for their bets. it is not only greece that is fighting for survival. policies which have led to such disastrous results in greece and other countries - portugal, spain, italy - must be fundamentally changed, indeed reversed. the economic recession is being exacerbated by austerity measures, as the negative development of gross domestic product figures in these countries impressively demonstrates. my group has been firmly opposed to the eu 2020 strategy from the outset and to the imposition of unilateral austerity and debt reduction policies. we need programmes to stimulate sustainable growth and to create jobs, as well as programmes for investment, the environment and education. a policy of social stripping, of abolishing social legislation, of restricting basic democratic and parliamentary rights while at the same time supporting the banks with hundreds of billions of euros can only lead to indignation and social unrest. the greek government is losing its political base, the parties supporting it are losing their members, the fabric of society is disintegrating. these results of greek and european politics call for a fundamental change in eu policy towards a policy that is in the interests of the people and less in the interests of the banks. one scenario should start with the financial markets. let us imagine that the ecb would lend directly to the states through a public bank. these would then be able to obtain the loans they need at low interest rates by bypassing the international financial markets. no one could bet on greek, portuguese or any other bond. all the hype in the markets would go away. doesn't that sound tempting? it only takes a will to take that step. my group will support this!
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. once again, the heads of state and government meet to discuss growth, employment, competitiveness, and once again, papers are exchanged without anything happening. on the subject of youth unemployment, i can recall papers from the late 1990s which stated that there are member states with low and those with high youth unemployment and that perhaps one could look at what those with low youth unemployment are doing. now it's 14 years later, and nothing has happened. when it is said that solidarity must be shown, it should be noted that greece has received over 100 billion euros from the structural funds over the last 31 years. this is an expression of solidarity in europe. it has been said time and again that the money can be used, for example, in the field of training, continuing training, especially for young people. i myself can recall initiatives in my home region where attempts were made to implement the dual training system in various places in greece. it didn't stick. the energy transition has not been completed in greece. the structural funds could also be used for this, and much more. this shows that europe is united. but then the pressure must also be increased so that the funds which the european union is making available here are used in the sense that is now being discussed at the spring summit. otherwise, it will be another summit with many fine papers but no results.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i have specifically referred to the european union's structural funds. and i would ask for your understanding . if these funds had been used in the way that the federal republic of germany, for example, used the funds from the marshall plan, you would not need to be under a rescue umbrella today.
ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! i am sorry, but our rules of procedure do not provide for blue cards to the institutions. i know it's boiling inside you; i've seen it. but i can't help you with the business arrangements. mr goebbels, if you are going to speak on the rules of procedure, please tell me which item.
mr goebbels, i am actually telling you because i think the question you asked was a very, very important question. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. fiscal consolidation must be based on the objectives of strategy 2020. since the start of the crisis, we have seen the commission and member states forget in their focus on economic consolidation that only balanced and socially fair reforms produce sustainable growth. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic crisis. the revenue must be strengthened by a sensible tax policy. the commission's proposals for the future of the european union are based on the principle of subsidiarity. i find it incomprehensible that the european people's party has prevented member states with current account surpluses from helping to prevent recession and create jobs. it would have been a step towards a single european economic policy. national egoism is driving us deeper into crisis, and conservatives must finally understand this.
the next item is the joint debate on three reports on the annual growth and employment report: report by marije cornelissen, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the employment and social policy aspects of the annual growth report 2012 (com (2011) 0815 - c2011/2320 (ini)); report by jean-paul gauzès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the contribution to the annual growth report 2012 (com (2011) 0815 - c2011/2319 (ini)); and report by pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states (com (2011) 0813 - c05007/2011); and report by jean-paul gauzès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the contribution to the annual growth report 2012 (com (2011) 0815 - c0907/2011) (cns) (a011111/2012).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european semester, i.e. the coordination of the financial and economic policies of the member states, is taking shape. the main emphasis is rightly on employment, given the unemployment rate of 10% on average. we must do everything we can to create more and better jobs. the epp has generally agreed with mrs cornelissen's report. however, we must strongly oppose paragraph 6. it is unacceptable to put the blame on member states with current account surpluses. these economies are successful because of the triad of smart management in enterprises, high employee potential and sound policy frameworks. let us stick to the imitating principle of best practice, but never: best practice must pay. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is the lesson of the last three years of continuous crisis. it is right that member states should enshrine debt constraints in their national constitutions. of course, the savings rates must be targeted and not rigorous. otherwise the limit of reasonableness will be exceeded for employees, pensioners and the unemployed. the fight against youth unemployment remains a priority in germany 8%, in many member states up to 40%. the european youth guarantee must be implemented. i have already called for it in my report on generational justice. the aim is to offer young people jobs, apprenticeships and other training after four months of unemployment. solidarity is needed between small and mediumsized enterprises and public authorities.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fact that people in the european union are still suffering from hunger is a disgrace that we must not ignore. people who cannot provide themselves with enough food must be helped. that is why i support the compromise reached on aid to the needy. but in the future, another basis for perspective must be found. i also want the member states to be involved in their responsibilities. we need a mechanism which also requires the involvement of the member states and not just delegates the problems to brussels. aid to people in need should also be provided from the region and on the ground, because it can be done there more effectively and more efficiently. and only when the member state is for whatever reason unable to do so should brussels help.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the development of broadband communications is, unlike many other things we discuss here in parliament, a truly european issue. the total volume of services dependent on radio frequencies is estimated to be around eur 200 billion per year in the eu. access to radio spectrum is essential for many users - from telephone services to broadcasting, transport applications, energy, research and development, culture and the police - but also for rural areas. the key is to have a coordinated approach across the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the frequency bands are used in a uniform manner. some radio frequencies that are intended for mobile communications in germany are used in poland or the czech republic for television or the military, and then it can happen that the police are no longer reachable by radio after 5 km when pursuing suspects across the german-polish border. here a european approach can help.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the compromise reached on the milk package provides a satisfactory framework for contractual relations in the milk sector. i am glad that we have been able to find good solutions in some of the key areas. i was particularly concerned about the fact that in future the member states will be able to decide for themselves whether or not to make contracts compulsory, especially for the milk producers concerned. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quota is not exceeded. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quota is not exceeded. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. this includes mechanisms whereby farmers themselves can regulate the quantity supplied in accordance with the price.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if 27 borrowers are all creditworthy and get together to take out a joint loan and thus get better terms from the bank, that's fine. the eurobond could work in a similar way, and i say it again at this point: the eurobond is an instrument for me in good weather. however, if a number of the 27 bank customers are not creditworthy, then there will be a mixed financing and the credit conditions for the better borrowers will simply worsen. this means that we simply have to clarify the rules of the game in europe, we have to enforce the stability criteria and then we can finally use the eurobonds instrument as a kind of icing on the cake. i cannot agree to this motion and this report today because we are not yet at that stage in the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also voted against the motion for a resolution from the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the feasibility and introduction of stability bonds. the name has been changed, but the substance remains the same, namely that it is a eurobond. we have now reached a stage in europe where we should ask ourselves, in principle, what the future of this europe should be. italian prime minister monti wrote today in a guest post in germany: "rethinking democracy". i would add: 'rethinking europe'. we must do that if we want to take the citizens with us to europe. i believe that referendums are an important instrument. more citizen participation in europe, not just in the member states, but in europe, and then really discussing the big issues that are there at the moment that have led us to this crisis. we are then one step further than simply distributing ever-increasing debts amongst ourselves with new motions for resolutions. each state is responsible for its debts. we do not need a transfer of debt from one state to another.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was able to vote in favour of this report with a clear conscience because parliament acted very wisely in voting and voted out a few things which bothered me very much. i am thinking of punishing countries which have a current account surplus so that they take measures to reduce it. a current account surplus is not created by someone who is very good, but also because others are very bad. the only way to do that is to make sure that the bad ones move faster and imitate the best ones. that must be the target. secondly, i think parliament has recognised that private employment services are also very important and that is why we have included them in our work. i would like to draw attention to a point which did not play such a large role in the debate, namely paragraph 13, which clearly calls for the european parliament to finally implement its right under the lisbon treaty, and governments must do the same. the disaster we are in is the result of constant intergovernmental cooperation, which never works. parliament has the answer!
in writing. - the european parliament has saved the food aid programme for the most deprived of our fellow citizens and i was happy to approve it. nearly 20 million citizens are at least partially dependent on the eu's food aid programme. by the end of 2013, the programme will have been endowed with eur 500 million and will be operational. the reduction of appropriations to one quarter envisaged by the council was prevented.
in writing. − from 2013, there will be more free spectrum, making mobile internet surfing faster and easier. the 800 mhz frequency will be released first, followed by the 1200 mhz frequency from 2015. the new bandwidths will be needed to enable fast data transmission in all parts of europe for all citizens. effective cost control will be pursued. in this respect, the decision, which i endorse, is another positive building block for an internet and data-driven future.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. the council and the commission have, however, categorically refused to do so. the compromise now reached, however, will allow milk producers across europe to join together in producer organisations. it is of central importance to us to strengthen the bargaining power of milk producers vis-à-vis dairies and retailers. in addition to the binding contractual obligation, we have explicitly advocated higher limits on the number of groups of producers in a producer group, because that would also have led to an additional improvement in the bargaining position of milk producers in europe. but here too it was clear from the trilogue negotiations that the council would not have been prepared to do so in a further reading. the possibility for german milk producers to join together in producer organisations is not new, as it is already possible at national level thanks to the market structure act. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the cap must create a framework for these farms which will enable milk production to continue in less-favoured regions. only in this way can we achieve our main objective of ensuring a comprehensive, sustainable and multifunctional agriculture in europe.
in writing. - i have agreed to the motion for a resolution. the regulation adopted today puts milk producers in a better position to negotiate with their customers. it allows the formation of price-negotiating associations to negotiate better raw milk prices without coming into conflict with the antitrust laws. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to negotiate and fix prices within an acceptable framework, while leaving the member states a sufficient margin of discretion. at the same time, quality cheese production is being strengthened and improved at regional level.
in writing. − the fdp delegation has abstained in today’s vote on the motion for a resolution on the feasibility of introducing stability bonds. we believe that the introduction of eurobonds would set the wrong incentives. since the introduction of the euro, low interest rates have led to a substantial increase in debt levels in many eurozone countries. eurobonds would take the pressure off highly indebted eurozone member states to consolidate their budgets and introduce much needed structural reforms. therefore, we believe that eurobonds would aggravate, rather than alleviate, the current crisis. however, we did not vote against the resolution as many of our concerns have been taken on board by the rapporteur.
in writing. - in today's vote on the feasibility of introducing stability bonds, i voted against because i believe that the introduction of eurobonds sends the wrong signal. since the introduction of the euro, low interest rates have led to higher debt in many eurozone countries. eurobonds would take the pressure off these countries to consolidate their budgets and to carry out necessary reforms. so in my view, the introduction of eurobonds would rather exacerbate the current crisis.
in writing. − the fdp delegation abstained in today’s vote on the motion for a resolution on the feasibility of introducing stability bonds. we believe that the introduction of eurobonds would set the wrong incentives. since the introduction of the euro, low interest rates have led to a substantial increase in debt levels in many euro-area countries. eurobonds would take the pressure off highly indebted euro-area member states to consolidate their budgets and introduce much needed structural reforms. therefore, we believe that eurobonds would aggravate, rather than alleviate the current crisis. however, we did not vote against the resolution as many of our concerns have been taken on board by the rapporteur.
in writing. - i could not agree to this resolution today, even though it is only a resolution and is intended to open up many options for common bonds. i am opposed to all forms of eurobonds, without exception, just as the maastricht treaty clearly excludes this possibility. the most urgent prerequisite for these ideas is a common fiscal union with all the mechanisms such as the debt brake and the treaty bases. all other orders or measures lead to absolute ruin or to a socialist planned economy.
in writing. - i did not agree with the report because the rapporteur has repeatedly and against all reason in her oral submissions tried to suggest that the surplus countries should also be taken to task. this is the usual economic nonsense of the left. we slaughter the ones we've been milking. this path is so promising that i can't go with it.
the next item is the statement by professor monti, prime minister of the italian republic, on the economic crisis, growth and employment (2012/2538 ((rsp)). i would like to welcome you, mr monti, to the european parliament. it is a great honor to have you with us today. a warm welcome on behalf of the entire house! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to thank mr monti for his report. you made two points clear in your speech, not just in the article you published this morning with your colleague sylvie goulard. firstly, you are the man who is able to civilize italian politics after a rather difficult period. and you have given us the signal that you may also be one of the strong men who can help to civilize european politics again. to be quite serious, i think that's what this is about. i listened to your speech very carefully. i have also thought about some of the points: that is good, but could he not be more clear? could he not make some points more specific about the difficulties involved? the figures for italy were just mentioned by mr verhofstadt. the following countries are eligible: at least these are the countries where people are afraid today when they see the coverage from greece. we keep saying that italy is not greece, we keep saying that portugal is different, spain is different, ireland is different. but you know that the crisis is not in any way controlled, but that the crisis can spread. and because you -- as i saw a long time ago -- grew up in the money business, in the banking sector, i think i'd like to ask you some questions at this point, and i would like you to basically give me some clearer answers. first, if you look at greece now and say, we need to make inclusive policies, we need to keep europe together. do you think that we are on the right track with the crisis policy as it is materializing in greece? i don't think i can say yes to that for sure right now. neelie kroes, a commissioner, said yesterday that it would not be a tragedy if greece were to leave the euro zone. i found that in this banality and casualness extremely dangerous. what are the greeks supposed to think of this? secondly, you have spoken a great deal about budgetary discipline. as a man who's supposed to be cleaning up italy now, do you think it's wise budget discipline to just cut corners? because what is happening in greece is just a cut. the budget is not being put in order and expenditure and revenue are not being brought into a sustainable balance, but only cut back, and despite all the cuts, the country is doing worse, the majority of the citizens are doing worse, and the poorest people in the country are doing worse. is this the way that is sustainable from the perspective of another country in crisis? since you're from the banking sector, can you explain to me why we decided to say that the big banks are too big to fail, and to back them up again and again, with all the weaknesses we see in the banking sector? we trust the countries in crisis much less. we are giving countries detailed guidelines for much smaller sums that we are making available to them, guidelines for how they should make policy without really thinking about it. i have never understood why there is this total disconnect in the process. i know that in italy you started to deal with tax evasion on an interesting scale. the searches you have ordered, the tax audits you have announced in cortina d'ampezzo, are a very interesting signal. but would you be prepared to lobby europe-wide to get us a european agreement that would just not allow tax evasion, money laundering on this insane scale? in italy, nearly 300 billion euros are spent every year. if you take this sum, in ten years italy would be debt free. let me conclude with a sentence, mr monti. they are in a special situation as regards the prime ministers of the countries in crisis. they enjoy a unique respect throughout europe. i believe that as a person with your experience as commissioner you have a special responsibility for the future of the relationship between the countries in crisis and those which are not yet in crisis in the european union.
i thank you very much, mr prime minister, for your comments. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! the description is quite clear - i don't need to repeat it - of the way a regime here acts against its own people. the real legitimacy is that a family, a clan, wants to establish itself and continue to see the state as private property. it is necessary that we break the solidarity of the regime's supporters with assad. the regime's supporters in the narrower circles need to realize that they have no future with assad himself, and make sure that the regime implodes. that's one of the right things to do in these cases. however, it is also necessary that we make clear the common position of the international community, that we will ensure that the un resolution comes through. it is unacceptable that russia has so far refused to do so and that, for reasons of self-interest, it has placed its position as a world player in the middle east conflict in the foreground of what it should actually do to do justice to humanity in a port. the european union must cooperate in a special way with the arab league, which has submitted a resolution to the united nations general assembly for next thursday. this should be supported by a large majority, in order to exert further pressure to move forward in the security council, because only there can a binding international settlement be reached. i think this is extremely important and i think that cooperation with turkey, as with the arab league, should also be an important point here. this cannot be a western event. this is a close cooperation, led by the arab league and with close involvement of turkey. but we also have experience in egypt, libya, etc. we should also have the necessary dialogue with the opposition, which should be supported. mrs gomes has already referred to this when she spoke of minority rights. we must see to it that the rights of minorities and religious freedom are not abused. but it must not be the consequence that christians are subsequently persecuted because there is an islamist trend. we must also make sure that the opposition is given the support it needs at the very beginning, and that it is committed to the creation of a state which does not bring injustice to the other side. this is an important issue to keep assad isolated in his country, because out of concern for what happens afterwards, some minorities are still on assad's side, because they hope it will bring more stability. here too, they must be given the perspective that religious and ethnic minorities have a clear chance to live in the country on equal terms and to go their own way. that is why we should also look at it from this angle.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. for 11 months now, the assad regime has been leading the world by the nose, making fools of the world. the veto of russia and china is acting as a fire accelerator and a call for mass murder. the assad regime is slaughtering its people and the opposition, it seems to have launched a major offensive to create facts. there's not much we can do, but one thing must be clear: the sanctions must be tightened up and they must not be lifted, even if this regime believes it can survive. they can only be lifted when the regime has been replaced, when it resigns. those responsible must be brought before the international criminal court in the hague. that must be said clearly and repeatedly! and we need to put more pressure on china and russia. we have endless debates on the subject of a trade agreement with morocco. and we trade with china, so no one asks what's going on there. we should see that in a relationship, we should think about that. we can't stand by and watch these murders go on!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what do we have to do together? all those with responsibility for foreign policy in the eu and its member states must take every opportunity to call on russia and china to lift their vetoes against a substantive resolution in the un security council. we can expect even more from russia, since it is a member of the council of europe and the osce, and the values and principles of these institutions also apply in the field of foreign policy, which cannot be overridden when acting outside europe. it's obscene that russia is still supplying weapons to this regime. mr putin, mr medvedev, stop this practice, or you will join the long list of terrible figures in russian history! i wish the eu had been able to pull the ambassadors out of damascus together. why doesn't even something like this work? what petty national vanities must be lived out if one is not even able to do so? let us coordinate closely with turkey. let us act together in public wherever possible, for example in the preventive setting up of refugee camps on the turkish side of the border. we are also in favour of the establishment of a european union, which is a political union, and we are in favour of the establishment of a european union, which is a political union. such statements should make clear that there must be a future for all syrians, including ethnic and religious minorities, and that the european union fully supports such a syria on its way to the future. we must also be prepared for the fact that if this regime is overthrown, changes will also take place in our neighbourhood, and we should be prepared for the fact that things may go wrong in lebanon, for example, and that is why we should already now appeal to all the parties there not to feel encouraged to use violence to exploit a short-term vacuum in syria, for example.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the resolution of parliament on the un human rights council is a very good opportunity to highlight the enormous importance of this body. it is the only un forum in which specific human rights violations in the respective countries can be addressed. the eu has been very constructive in its review of the workings of the human rights council and has advocated the independence of the office of the high commissioner and the country rapporteurs. it is a matter of great regret that baroness ashton will not be able to attend this meeting of the human rights council. this could be interpreted as a disregard for human rights policy in foreign relations. it is also very positive that the european union is generously supporting the work of the un human rights bodies financially. the commission should also consider increasing this amount in the future, because the arab spring has given the high commissioner for human rights many new tasks. in our resolution we have devoted a chapter to the violations of human rights in the countries of the arab spring, and have set out specific demands for the eu to take action. i would like to highlight just two of them. this is the situation in yemen, where there really needs to be an examination of the serious human rights violations, and even of war crimes. there must be no impunity for those who bear high political responsibility. the second country is algeria. it is now in the process of the universal periodic review for the second time in the human rights council, and there is a very urgent need to address the fate of thousands of disappeared persons and their families. the council of human rights can deal with specific human rights violations in individual countries, and you, mr søvndal, have mentioned that you are taking the momentum of the past year to adopt even more specific resolutions. i can only support you. yes, the report of the special rapporteur on iran, where the demands must be implemented. yes, we need concrete results on north korea. and yes, the changes in myanmar/burma are positive, but it is that the international attention must continue to be on the human rights situation in that country. we need the implementation of the findings of the fact-finding mission to gaza, we must achieve that, and here too those responsible for the breach of international law must be held to account. but the demands of the commission of inquiry on côte d'ivoire must also be implemented, and i am glad that you have already mentioned this in your speech. we must ensure that the un secretary-general's panel of experts on sri lanka is taken seriously and implemented.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking my fellow rapporteur, mr derek vaughan, for his excellent cooperation and for his willingness to discuss the various problems in depth and to find a solution. we have already presented a budget of savings last year, in which the actual original budget has increased by only 0.8%, and taking into account the additional costs of the enlargement of croatia and the lisbon treaty, we still remained below the inflation rate of 1 and reached 1.9%. this year, we are again presenting guidelines to show that we want to have a savings budget, and that we want to document that we are aware that we are in an environment where you cannot make big leaps forward in financial terms, but you have to pull yourself together and continue to review the budget in terms of efficiency and savings potential. i also welcome the establishment of a working group to work in this direction together with the bureau, the general secretariat and the parliament's administration, and to involve external experts where we consider this necessary and appropriate. i also think it is right that we should continue to strengthen interinstitutional cooperation and that we should continue to optimise the organisation of parliament's work, either in terms of efficiency or in terms of the use of financial resources and staff. we have thus saved 21 million euros in one year in the field of translation and interpreting alone last year, and we should continue to do so this year. as my colleague, mr derek vaughan, has said, we are freezing travel and subsistence costs, and on the subject of building policy - i am the rapporteur on buildings - i think it is necessary that we now examine what we have decided in terms of whether building policy and construction projects are being carried out in a professional and cost-efficient manner. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we also expect the other institutions to eventually join our efforts and support us in this. i think it is necessary to take a path which combines the precise work of parliament with efficiency and good organization. i also thank the parliament's administration, the general secretariat and the bureau for their good cooperation and wish them success in presenting a budget that is reasonable, solid and also demonstrable.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on access to books for the blind by erminia mazzoni, on behalf of the committee on petitions (o-000006/2012) (b7-0030/2012) (2011/2894 ((rsp)).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also want to thank my disciplined speakers. i am very grateful to my colleague mrs mazzoni for having taken up these resolutions. what's this about? the resolution refers to the charter of fundamental rights and the treaty on european union, which provide for the elimination of discrimination on grounds of disability, and calls on the council and the commission to promote the conclusion of a treaty within the framework of the world intellectual property organisation. the committee on petitions is thus repeating a parliamentary resolution of last year in which we already called for a legally binding solution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the time has finally come. it's really about the weakest in society. it's about disabled people, and they deserve a binding contract.
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place on thursday, 16 february, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr peter simon, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on deposit-guarantee schemes (recast) (com (2010) 0368) (c7-0177/2010) (2010/0207 (cod)) (a7-0225/2011).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we shall vote tomorrow on the first reading of the new regulation on deposit guarantee schemes. this is remarkable for several reasons. on the one hand, it is a procedural matter, because in the context of financial market regulation, we have so far managed to reach an agreement between the council and parliament at first reading, where both sides at least had a solution in front of them that they said they could live with. this is not the case here. the council and parliament were unable to reach an agreement. secondly, it is remarkable that this was not possible at the very moment when it becomes most tangible to the people of europe, when financial market regulation becomes most tangible to them, because it is very specifically about them, about their savings books, about their current accounts. for their money! the european commission has put forward a proposal which, in the view of parliament, initially showed a little too little flexibility in the design of safety systems. i am very pleased that with the excellent support, cooperation and permanent exchange with the shadow rapporteurs as rapporteurs here, i was finally able to draw up a draft which takes account of the fact that in europe in future the principles which politicians in all member states have promised to their people will be taken into account, and that in future cases of banking crises, of bank failures, it is not the taxpayer who should be the advocate, but that in good times, or at least not in bad times, banks should save in a fund the necessary funds to pay out in case of crisis, in case of the collapse of a bank, the depositors, the current account holders, the savings account holders. in addition to the stable fund we are proposing, we have also come to a solution as to the time limits within which ordinary citizens should get their money back. i think we're here with the one-week period that we're proposing, within a playroom where people can still get around, where people can still handle their everyday situations without any extra money. we did not think it was reasonable to go for long periods without any financial inflows. we continue to believe that we must ensure that the deposit into a bank guarantee fund takes account of the different risk profiles of banks in europe. the risk-rich banks are expected to pay more than banks that are less risky because of their business models. we have put all these principles together in a broad coalition of parties here in parliament, from the left party to the socialists, the greens, the liberals and the conservatives, to form a comprehensive draft which has won a large majority in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the commission has also been able to identify the problems that the member states have encountered in the past, and to identify the problems that have arisen in the past, and to identify the problems that have arisen in the past. we have therefore agreed to make a clear sign of consumer protection in europe by giving a first reading. we are prepared to move the council to a rapid second reading. we thank the commission for its mediation efforts. but we think that we will have to show the european public tomorrow what we think is appropriate when it comes to the protection of depositors in europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i can only join peter simon. i am very sorry that we did not complete this dossier as planned at the end of last year. in my view and in the view of the epp group, our text offers a balanced approach which, on the one hand, increases the security and protection of investors, but on the other hand does not overburden financial institutions. i also think that a good balance has been struck between harmonization and flexibility. we were aware that we would have to negotiate with the council on some important points, but i did not expect that the member states would actually block any substantial approximation. the member states have repeatedly stated that they do not want to commit themselves to the safeguarding of installations until we have received proposals on crisis resolution. but we all know how long we are going to be held up with the crisis resolution dossier. i think we have no choice but to vote on this report tomorrow in plenary after more than six months of waiting. i think we really need trustworthy, reliable plant safety systems in the european union. if the council does not agree, it must answer to the citizens. we have done our part as co-legislators. i would like to thank peter simon and the other shadow rapporteurs for their exceptionally good and productive cooperation.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. when lehman brothers collapsed in new york in march 2008, the global financial crisis reached its first peak. for retail savers and retail investors, the crisis had actually started a year earlier, when northern rock in the united kingdom went into a tailspin and suddenly there were long lines of depositors outside the bank building waiting to withdraw their money. this was not limited to northern rock, but was also seen in other banks. the uncertainty of savers, especially small investors, was great, and the states were forced to guarantee deposits beyond the minimum guaranteed by the treaties. some countries, such as germany and ireland, have even guaranteed deposits of unlimited amounts, which would of course not have been sustainable in the long term. the difference between the deposit guarantee schemes in europe had its price at that time. that is why the commission has been quite right in saying that we must bring order to this, that we must introduce a uniform deposit guarantee scheme for all 27 member states of the european union. she did so in a very convincing and acceptable way. the gaps have been closed, deposit protection has been strengthened and a high degree of harmonisation has been achieved. we, as representatives of parliament, support this proposal. we thought we could still make some improvements. unfortunately, as mr balz has already said, the negotiations with the council have not yet been successful. we are not giving up, but we think that in the next few months we may succeed. but here 's the thing . the deposit guarantee scheme protects the depositor and is therefore necessary. but more importantly, of course, it doesn't go bankrupt. more importantly, we must avoid bankruptcy or even difficulty and we must have preventive measures. we therefore await with great interest the submission of the crisis and resolution management dossier by the commission.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not it's nice to see a dusseldorfer there. first of all, it has been a year and a half since the commission put forward its proposal. the proposal was necessary because in several places in europe, including germany, deposit guarantee schemes were unable to deliver on the promises made across the various banking sectors. the commission has put forward a demanding proposal and we as a parliament have not closed our eyes to the crisis. it is quite clear that the banking system is under stress and that we cannot afford to add to that stress. we were therefore prepared to reduce the commission's requirements for the amount of savings to be made significantly in a compromise which we found here across the political groups. we were prepared to see to it that the savings time was extended. and we have also ensured in our proposal that the established systems of institutional protection are maintained. in spite of all this willingness to compromise, the council has so far been unwilling to respond to our demands. i am sure that most citizens do not want that. they want a deposit guarantee system that is sufficiently hedged to make it credible that riskier institutions are being burdened more than those that are taking less risk, and that is able to pay out the money to citizens quickly. we can't wait any longer. this great coalition of the three great countries that have blocked this for so long is now giving way. it is now time for a majority vote in the council. i am glad that the commission is on our side on the central issues. i hope that we will continue to work together and that the citizens will be able to see that this is quickly adopted.
thank you very much, mr. chairman. it is regrettable that the council cannot hear your statements because you are not present.
blue-card question. – i would like to know whether you are aware that studies show very clearly that the amount of capital is not the key variable in showing how much lending happens in the real economy. most banks use a large amount of money in order to take it – exactly as you were describing – out of real economic activity. so the real question is: how are banks regulated? it is not about setting aside 1%. so i would like to know whether you were aware of these studies and whether you took them into account in your deliberations.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i can thank you in full, commissioner. i am convinced, as you are, that we have the best chance of succeeding in the coming weeks and months under the danish presidency if all the parties involved, and i am speaking specifically of the council, engage in constructive negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. then i think we'll all have no problem, then we'll come to a common green branch. i thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs for their words of support and for their support so far. i think we will be able to continue to work together very well in the coming months and i would like to agree fully with mr barnier on the substance of the comments made by mrs ford and mrs swinburne. i don't think i could have said it better at this point. i would therefore like to limit my reply to one point, namely to mr stoyanov's comment on the question of the four-week payment deadline versus the seven-day payment deadline. we all don't want to make promises to people that we can't keep. so it has to be made clear that the systems can pay out within the promised time. the national legislation has obliged the english banks to take all appropriate measures to make this possible. they could do it today. what english banks can do in seven days, banks in your country and in mine will do as well. we are giving them the time they need to make money available as quickly as possible in the interests of the citizen. i think this is a point which we must discuss in greater detail in the next negotiations with the council. i would like to thank all my colleagues again and hope that we will reach a conclusion in the danish presidency.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the debate will then be followed by the oral question to the commission on the extraterritorial effects of legislation from third countries and eu data protection rules by sophia in 't veld, sylvie goulard, sonia alfano, alexander alvaro, sarah ludford, theodoros skylakakis, ramon tremosa i balcells, philippe de backer, jens rohde, stanimir ilchev, giommaria uggias on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o315/2011 - b7-0025/2012), the oral question to the commission on the extraterritorial effects of legislation from third countries and eu data protection rules by ernst cornelia, miguel taur, marisa matias on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left/nordic green left (o3180000000 - b7-0018), the oral question to the commission on the extraterritorial effects of legislation from third countries and eu data protection rules by jean in 't veld, sylvie goulard, sonia alfano, sarah ludford, theodoros skylakakis, ramon tremosa i balcells, philippe de backer, jens rohde, stanimir ilchev, giommaria uggias on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o3180018000 - b7-00180018000 - b-) and by jean in the name of the confederal group of the european left (o) on the european parliamentary group of the european united left (o218 january 2011), the european parliament, jean in the b7-001800000 - b7-00000 - b7-0018 ojustice, jean b7-00000 - b7-0018 ojunius, jean b7-00 b7-00 b7-00 b7-0011 by jean b.
a writer. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are discussing today the question of third countries' access to the data of european citizens, and therefore also the application of the law of third countries to european citizens who are here in europe. this is of course a question which concerns not only data protection but, in an increasingly interconnected and globalised world, also fundamental questions of the application of the law and questions of what law actually applies. i think we need answers to that. we have repeatedly found ourselves in a situation where, for example, in the so-called cloud, where more and more personal data is stored and services are used, it is unclear which law is actually applicable and what safeguards we as the european union offer our citizens so that they can rely on the application of european data protection law in such an environment or even with international corporations. i was pleased to note that we are now embarking on a data protection reform at european level. we have a good proposal from the european commission on the table, but we do not have in this proposal, as in previous drafts, an article which makes it clear that, in the case of requests from third countries, the application is only allowed if it is also allowed in the context of mutual assistance in police and judicial cooperation. in this context, i would like to know what has happened to this provision and whether there are any reasons why it is no longer included. i think it is important that we also agree on such provisions in our data protection law, especially as long as there are no common standards with these third countries. i say this in particular as rapporteur for the joint data protection agreement with the united states.
thank you very much, commissioner. it is a pity that i almost managed to close the sitting before 11 p.m. but i want to thank the colleagues here for their discipline. i would like to thank the servants, the staff of the services of the house and, last but not least, the translators for their work. thank you so much for today. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the debate in this house shows that we represent the whole spectrum: on the one hand, those who want no restrictions at all, on the other, those who equate any form of immigration with the danger of mass immigration. those are the two extremes within this house. you have to look at family reunification with great reason and also with rationality. on the one hand, there are indeed problems in member states where too restrictive measures are taken. because family reunification cannot be so overwhelmed with obstacles that no one can be reunited at all. on the other hand, it is entirely justified for member states to require, for example, language skills and integration or even the willingness to integrate within a state. secondly, the member states have the right - and we should not ignore these problems - to name the problems that arise in the context of family reunification. if countries such as greece, malta, romania or italy are no longer allowed to say what problems they have in this respect, then i do not know whether we are democratic if we simply ignore problems. we do not need another directive now. we should discuss the problems carefully and then think about how we can eliminate problems. the continuous production of new directives does not improve the directives and their implementation. we are currently experiencing some implementation problems. i also fully understand that we must first of all deal with the fact that we are not going to make a new directive and add to it before we have even discussed the old directive in some way in its problems. i am in favour of listening to the member states and at the same time respecting the fundamental right to family reunification. if we do this with reason and understanding, we will also come to a good way.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i welcome the fact that, in response to the arab spring, trade is to be opened up towards a euro-mediterranean free trade area and the more than 100 bilateral protocols are to be brought together in a single regional agreement. i would like to draw your attention to the most critical point, namely the products which are supposed to come from the state of israel. the eu's association agreement with israel, signed in 1995, has significant shortcomings in its implementation. we all know that in this house. in a recent written question to the commission i denounced precisely these shortcomings. we know from various sources, including our customs authorities, that israeli settlers deliberately mislabel products produced in the occupied palestinian territory, including fruit and vegetables, and provide them with forged certificates of origin, declaring the products to be of israeli origin. this is intended to give these products access to the eu internal market on preferential terms, including low taxes. the new agreement must not be misused to extend this illegal practice. commissioner barnier, i think it is extremely important that this list of the names of the various palestinian towns and villages be published. we in our delegation have long felt that it is not the concealment of this list, but its publication that will help to bring about greater clarity and transparency and to limit abuse.
a writer. the commission has already done so. i'm sorry about that. there has been a bit of a lot of activity in the elevators in this parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. that's why i was a little late. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i believe - and i may be repeating myself in some places, but i just want to emphasize - that the gmes programme is one of the two flagship space policy initiatives of the european union and is of crucial importance for earth observation. this in turn is an indispensable tool in the fight against climate change and pollution, as well as for disaster prevention and security, sustainable development, mobility and crisis management. gmes was set up as a union programme and will be funded by the budget to the tune of some eur 3.2 billion until 2013. the absence of sound financial planning for long-term sound financial support would likely result in costs increasing in the long term. the programme and the related provision of data could be temporarily suspended or even terminated. this could mean that the investments made so far have been in vain. europe could lose its independence and technological lead in this important space infrastructure. what's the matter? it is a sum of 5.8 billion euros for the period 2014 to 2020, certainly a very large sum, but it also has a high economic benefit. despite the current tight budgetary situation in many member states, gmes needs to be adequately funded in the budget and through the financial perspective. you, commissioner barnier, have recently written to us. i would like to quote from it: 'europe cannot be satisfied with defensive responses to the crisis, however important this may be. europe must also open up a new growth perspective to its citizens.' but it could also be stated very clearly. you can save yourself a lot of trouble. this is true in another context for an important member country within the european union. if gmes were to be dealt with intergovernmentally in the future, outside the budget, without parliament's involvement, then in my view the european space strategy would have failed before it was launched. we therefore call for a legislative proposal from the commission on the long-term management, financing and implementation of gmes and the incorporation of the budget into the medium-term financial planning. the danish presidency had announced conclusions for the competition council on 21 february, which it then cancelled because there was no majority in the council. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. unfortunately, this development has led to two camps in the council. a group of member states which fund gmes from the budget have also written to them. a second group wants to follow the commission's proposal. if this trend continues, i fear that gmes could fail and a great opportunity will be lost. except that many millions of euros that have been poured into the program so far would be wasted. the greatest risk, however, is that we will set a precedent and the member states will act outside the treaty of lisbon. i thought we were past that. i have three demands. firstly, i hope that we as the european parliament will be courageous enough to continue to finance the major eu projects, such as gmes, but also galileo and iter, through the budget and to set up our own budget lines with sufficient reserves. secondly, i hope and i demand that the commission submits this legislative proposal as soon as possible. thirdly, i call on the council to make a decision on reasonable and adequate funding within the budget.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
mr batten, please. what amendment no 1 to what motion for a resolution?
mr batten, please. you spoke of the epp resolution. that's clear. i therefore call for a resolution in the order in which it was tabled. that is why i shall put the epp motion for a resolution to the vote first.
mr bové has withdrawn his name. the report is therefore now being translated into the moreira report, in accordance with the house's practice. i'm very happy for you, mr. moreira.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too am in favour of a single seat for the european parliament, namely strasbourg. and why did i not vote for amendment no 2 anyway? because this one is factually incorrect. because we've only got one seat. the treaty says that the european parliament is to have its seat in strasbourg! and we could do all the savings ourselves without consulting the council. we could do away with the mini-plenary sessions in brussels - big savings. we could move the administration from brussels here. great savings. we could sell the expensive buildings in brussels and invest here much cheaper big savings! but no one who supported amendment no 2 does or wants to do so. it is clear that this is not about austerity at all. it is about demagogy against strasbourg. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to the mercy of the bureaucrats.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can only support what my predecessor and colleague, mr bernd posselt, said: strasbourg is the capital of europe, it is the seat of the european parliament. i suggest that we close brussels, that we stop driving from brussels to strasbourg, that we finally invest here. we own the buildings here, but in brussels we don't. this is the seat of parliament. i wonder why we have so many visitors here in strasbourg every month. we'll explain europe to them. why are we then building a parliamentary building in brussels, a museum of european history? this is the place to be, strasbourg! that is why i voted against this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the resolution on hungary tabled by the left and the so-called liberals in this house is reminiscent of the orwellian ministry of truth. it is not in accordance with the facts. you'll see that when you come to hungary. they come out of the station, there's a protester against the government. you turn on the evening news, and someone is criticizing the government. and then you say there is no freedom of the press and of expression. this is utter nonsense. the hungarian television has broadcast the debate in this house in full. i wish that such freedom of expression existed in all the member states, so that citizens could form their own opinion. because after that debate, hundreds of hungarians emailed and wrote to me saying that they had the impression that the left-wing speakers here were speaking of a completely different country because they were completely ignoring the facts. and they said they didn't believe it was about the truth at all anymore, but only about an ideological war against a free country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too regret that the question of the prisoners from jukos, mr chodorkovsky and mr magnitsky, is not included in the resolution, on the bureaucratic grounds that it is a resolution on the elections. if these people are imprisoned in the worst conditions, abused against russian law, and suffer so to speak far from home, it is because mr. putin fears that they might be scratching at his power and nothing else. they were withdrawn from circulation because they could inspire democracy and diversity in russia. that's why we're doing a massive job for the freedom of these people, and also for russia to finally be democratized after putin. mr schröder has declared mr putin to be a pure democrat. mr putin, on the contrary, is the de-democratiser of russia, and we must be prepared to support the democratic opposition to putin as strongly as possible for the post-putin period.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i very much welcome the adoption of this agreement. because if there is one state in north africa that is on a good evolutionary path, it is morocco: rooted in tradition, but open to reform. a classic constitutional state with a clear development towards more parliamentarism. it is in our interest to support morocco and to work as closely as possible with morocco. we do not know what will become of the military forces, which are unfortunately once again dominating egypt, nor where islamism, which has become entrenched in a section of the opposition, will go. but morocco is a country of balance, of checks and balances, a country which is an important partner for europe. we should not push it away, as it were, for selfish personal interests. it was a mistake to reject the fisheries agreement. i'm glad we did it differently here. the fisheries agreement and other treaties should also be supported by the house as soon as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in syria, of course, the regime must step down, because the way it slaughters its own people is completely unacceptable. on the other hand, many people are very afraid of what comes next. christians in syria say they have been treated with relative tolerance so far, jews in syria say the same, israel looks with concern at future developments in syria. so you have to simply say that removing the current regime, as important as it is, is not everything, but we have to make sure that the relative tolerance towards minorities and religious communities that has existed in syria over the last decades is not sacrificed to an extremist new regime that is pursuing an ideological islamism. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of democratization in the middle east, and it has been a very active participant in the process of democratization in the middle east. this shows the magnitude of the task ahead of us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i fully support what mr mitchell has said and i regret paragraph 31 of this report. abortion is not a means of human rights policy, abortion is a massive violation of human rights, namely a violation of the right to life by killing an unborn human being. that is why paragraph 31, as it is worded, has lost nothing - but absolutely nothing - in a human rights report. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights. human rights are too important and too precious for that. we should be sorry for ourselves as the european parliament.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development. 2. the quality of the products is checked and 3. the impact on eu farmers is checked. the agreements reached today have made a good deal of progress in this direction. that is why it is important that we deepen cooperation with morocco and that we bring morocco and the european union closer together.
in writing. - i am in favour of calling on the commission and the council to support a treaty which will give the blind and visually impaired the widest possible access to books. what i find particularly shocking is that only five percent of all books are published in an accessible format. for blind and partially sighted people, this lack of accessible literature means a significant deterioration in their quality of life. the eu has committed itself in its charter of fundamental rights to protecting disabled people from discrimination. if we fail to make the written word widely available to the visually impaired, this commitment will be reduced to a farce.
the next item is the debate on sixth readings of the minutes. motions for resolutions on the death penalty in belarus, in particular the death sentences against dmitry konovalov and vladislav kowaljov.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. the european union is also committed to the abolition of the death penalty, which is a crime punishable by death. president lukashenko, who likes to stress his country's membership of europe, must be made unequivocally clear that state-ordered murder is incompatible with european values. since belarus became independent, at least 400 people have died as a result of death sentences, and at least four people have been executed in the last two years. according to the belarusian criminal code, the time of execution is not announced, not even to the family members. the body of the person shot is not given to the relatives for burial, nor is the burial place kept secret. and now dmitry konovalov and vladislav kovalyov are to be executed, despite the fact that the sentences were handed down in an unfair trial. rule of law was not respected. there is strong evidence that konowalov's confession was extracted under torture. the sentence could be carried out at any moment and it is therefore imperative that the international community increase pressure on the government in minsk. we are calling for an immediate moratorium on executions, a moratorium on the death penalty and then the abolition of the death penalty.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the vast majority of this house is fundamentally against the death penalty, which is why we are calling for the abolition of these sentences. but unfortunately, the regime has given rise to serious doubts about the legality of the procedure. the professionalism of the minsk metro terrorist attack also suggests that professionals were at work and perpetrated the attack, and such professionals are more commonly found in the intelligence services in belarus than in the general population. i think we should definitely not only call for the abolition of the death penalty but also talk about further sanctions against the regime. some colleagues have already suggested that we should seriously consider moving the 2014 ice hockey championships out of the country, to ensure that the president cannot use a prestigious project to build a potemkin village in belarus.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the variety and number of your speeches, the vehemence and sincerity with which they were delivered, are proof of the emotion felt by your assembly in all its seats following the two death sentences in belarus of mr kanavalau and mr kavalyou. i would like to say on behalf of the high representative/vice-president of the european commission, catherine asthon, that we are also deeply concerned by these two sentences. mr kanavalau and mr kavalyou were sentenced to death by the supreme court of belarus on 30 november for their alleged involvement in the march 2011 minsk metro bombing, which killed 15 people and injured more than 200, and the 2005 and 2008 vitebsk and minsk bombings. while strongly condemning any act of terrorism, we, along with the high representative/vice-president of the european commission, catherine asthon, regret this double death sentence, and ms asthon made this known in a very clear and firm statement on 1 december 2011. the european union is opposed to the use of the death penalty in all cases and under all circumstances, irrespective of the crimes allegedly committed. the european union considers the death penalty to be a cruel and inhuman punishment. the death penalty does not deter criminal behaviour and represents a denial of human dignity and integrity which we all consider unacceptable. to this end, we have committed ourselves to working towards the worldwide abolition of the death penalty, as we have decided within the european union to do. we, along with catherine ashton, urge the belarusian authorities not to execute mr kanavalau and mr kavalyou and to commute their death sentences. we also call on belarus, which remains - as you have recalled - the only country on the european continent which still applies the death penalty, to introduce, as you have requested, a moratorium on the death penalty. that would be a first step towards its abolition.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on seven. motions for resolutions on the recent developments in egypt.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not it has been over 30 years since i held seminars for young egyptians in wildbad kreuth, the legendary training and education center of the hanns seidl foundation. the german party foundations have been active in egypt for decades in political and vocational education, youth exchanges and also in human rights work. so it was a great development for these foundations, especially, that the democratic movement has now begun in egypt. it is all the more disappointing that people in government, and even people with deep roots in the old regime, with the support of the military, are indiscriminately attacking these foundations, which are not just any ngos, but are almost public bodies. the former president of parliament, mr pöttering, is directly concerned as chairman of the konrad adenauer foundation. i want to make it very clear that we want an egypt of pluralism and democracy, not an egypt where two blocs of yesterday are colliding, namely islamism on the one hand and the military on the other.
member of the commission. - mr president, as you have all said, one of the most important developments in egypt recently has been the parliamentary elections, which we welcome. they have clearly made it possible to express the popular will in a transparent manner. as the high representative/vice-president of the commission, catherine ashton, also said recently, we now look forward to a smooth transition to democracy with the holding of presidential elections as soon as possible. nevertheless, and this is the subject of all your speeches, ladies and gentlemen, which i have listened to with attention, the general situation of human rights, the situation of democracy in egypt, continues to raise serious concerns despite the progress made. we have therefore repeatedly called for the transfer of all powers to democratically elected civilian authorities, for the complete and final lifting of the state of emergency, for an end to military trials for civilians, for independent investigations to identify and punish those responsible for the dramatic lapses in the law that have occurred during this transitional period. we have regularly reminded our egyptian partners of the importance of remaining true to the spirit of tahrir square, of ensuring that all citizens can participate fully and freely in the social and political life of their country, men and women, regardless of religion, belief or political affiliation. we are also concerned about the situation, as many of you have expressed, of non-governmental organizations in egypt. the european union has unequivocally denounced repressive measures against certain ngos in several statements. these actions, which are currently targeting several ngos accused of breaking the law for foreign interests, tarnish egypt's image with the international community and raise doubts about the ability of the interim authorities to carry out the democratic transition. we in europe know that the existence of free, dynamic non-governmental organisations is one of the essential conditions for a modern and open society, which guarantees and respects the rights of citizens. freedom of association is also at the heart of the union's human rights policy. respect for and promotion of the convention are integral to the commitments undertaken by egypt under its association agreement with the european union. we of course respect the principle of judicial independence, but it is clear that the current law governing non-governmental organizations in egypt dates back to the mubarak regime. it is not surprising, therefore, that it does not conform to international standards regarding freedom of association and is even an obstacle to the flourishing of a free and dynamic civil society. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we urge the egyptian authorities to find a quick solution to this crisis by suspending the investigations which are under way until a new law meets international standards. if the repression of ngos were to continue, it could have, it would have consequences for our relations in the framework of our new neighbourhood policy. the european union urges the egyptian authorities to take all necessary measures to reverse the situation. this is of paramount importance for the credibility of the transition and for the quality of our cooperation. in its communication of march 2011 on the new european response to a changing neighbourhood, we stated that our approach should be based on mutual responsibility and a shared commitment to the universal values of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. finally, i would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your questions, your encouragement and your questions, and to remind you that the european union is committed to supporting partners who clearly choose to develop genuine democracies, deeply rooted in respect for human rights.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on sixth readings of the minutes. motions for resolutions on the death penalty in japan.
member of the commission. - mr president, mr murphy, i was moved by your quotation from victor hugo. as i listened to you, mr murphy, i was thinking of another quote by victor hugo, who once wrote, in a prescient way, that the wars between europeans were civil wars. to return to japan, i want to confirm that we have taken note of this statement, as has each and every one of you, from the new japanese minister of justice suggesting that he would be less reluctant than his predecessors to sign execution orders. the european union has repeatedly expressed its position on the death penalty and urged japan to adopt a moratorium on executions and to recognise the positive developments towards universal abolition of the death penalty. no executions have taken place in japan since july 2010. on the occasion of the last two executions, we expressed, through the voice of the high representative/vice-president of the commission, catherine ashton, our deep regret at these executions and recalled that the european union is, and will remain, opposed to the use of the death penalty in all cases and under all circumstances. we have also consistently called for its universal abolition. the european union welcomed and applauded the efforts of the ministers of justice who preceded mr ogawa to encourage public debate on the death penalty in japan, including the decision to set up an ad hoc committee to study this grave issue. we also note the statement of the japanese federation of bar associations in october 2011 opposing the death penalty. the european union and its member states have organised several meetings, several conferences with members of the japanese government, with parliamentarians, with japanese non-governmental organisations on the death penalty. we will continue these efforts to explain the european position, both through diplomatic channels and by encouraging public debate on this issue in japan itself. to this end, we will sponsor a high-level public awareness seminar to be held in april in tokyo, involving civil society and members of the diet. ladies and gentlemen, even though the european union and japan have different views on the death penalty, we are partners with similar views and values, and we share the same fundamental positions on almost all other human rights issues.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
i am not going to go into that. we're on schedule. we had an efd resolution on japan. but we've just been to egypt, and we're coming to japan. we have six motions for resolutions in total. we have a joint motion for a resolution by five groups. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief explanation of his position.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i wish all my colleagues a safe journey home. in the event that you are stopped in the federal republic by the weather or by a strike, i would like to point out to all colleagues that it is customary in germany to cut the ties of men on the thursday before lent. so if it's an expensive one, take it off in germany. i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.30 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on 16 february 2012.
ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, the arab spring began, bringing freedom to many of our southern neighbors. in syria, too, people have taken to the streets and demonstrated peacefully, as in other countries, full of hope for a better life. we are witnessing a brutal dictator who has chosen to oppose freedom and to wage open war against his own people. more than 8,000 people have died in syria this year, and the bloodshed, as we all bitterly experience every day, is not ending. the people of europe, the people of the world, we are all appalled by the inhuman brutality of the regime and the difficulty of the international community in stopping these atrocities. the european parliament called on president al-assad to at least allow humanitarian aid to reach the civilian population. i am sure you will share my view when we call on the international community to support the joint special envoy of the united nations and the arab league, mr kofi annan, in his difficult mission and to work together to provide humanitarian aid to the civilian population. we also call on all the veto-wielding powers of the un security council not to make their actions on the syrian question dependent on political and tactical considerations. the day of remembrance for the victims of terrorism marked its anniversary once again yesterday. eight years ago, on 11 march 2004, madrid was the site of one of the most horrific terrorist attacks ever to take place on european soil. at the atocha train station, 191 people died, 1,800 were seriously injured. today we remember all the victims of terrorism - from madrid to london, from bologna to utoya. we, the representatives of the peoples of europe, stand shoulder to shoulder with the families torn apart by these atrocities, shoulder to shoulder with the people who have lost loved ones and friends. our thoughts are with the victims who survived terrorist attacks but continue to suffer - and some for the rest of their lives - from the physical and emotional wounds they sustained. the european parliament strongly condemns all forms of terrorism. in its unpredictability and cowardly anonymity, terrorism is one of the most repulsive phenomena of modern times. we are determined to do everything we can to support the victims and survivors of terrorism. and yesterday japan, like all of us, remembered the tsunami disaster of march 11, 2011. one year later, we are all still looking at the images of this terrible tragedy and the nuclear disaster caused by the tsunami. the european parliament will be discussing this event and its consequences as the first item on the agenda today, following the adoption of the agenda. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would be grateful if you would begin the sitting with a minute's silence, both for the victims of syria and for the victims of terrorism and the victims of this natural disaster. (parliament adopted the resolution)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on 8 march 2012 in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday: no amendmentstuesday: the legal affairs committee adopted a report by mrs lichtenberger on the request for immunity from prosecution made by mrs morvai. the report will be put to the vote on tuesday. the epp group has asked for a debate on tuesday evening on the report by mrs quisthoudt-rowohl on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending certain regulations on the common commercial policy, which is currently scheduled for a vote on tuesday. is there a word for that?
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i am not going to go into the details of the report, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report. it is a question of the omnibus area in the field of trade policy, and since it is already a major issue how we as the european parliament actually translate into law our new and additional rights in the field of foreign trade policy, we think it appropriate that we also have a debate on this in the plenary. i'd appreciate your support.
mr speroni, the conference of presidents decided not to change the title but to ask mrs ashton to refer to the fate of the two italians mentioned in her remarks. she's been contacted and informed.
ladies and gentlemen, the president of the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the tsunami and the destruction in fukushima. i shall be following this statement with a debate in the form of a group vote. one year ago, on march 11, 2011, japan was devastated by a triple disaster: first, a powerful earthquake struck the country, measuring 9.0 on the richter scale. then a tsunami with waves 20 meters high destroyed a 400-kilometer stretch of coastline. a day later, the first of three reactor units at the fukushima daiichi power plant exploded. the nuclear meltdown was the worst nuclear disaster since chernobyl. today, here in the european parliament, we remember the 19 000 people who died, the thousands who lost loved ones and friends, the more than 340 000 who had to flee radiation, those who lost their homes and their homelands forever. the dignity with which the japanese people responded to this triple disaster has touched the whole world. the courage of those nameless heroes in fukushima who went into the reactor and risked their lives to prevent worse, touched us all. the determination with which the people have gone about rebuilding has impressed us all. the fukushima nuclear accident has sparked a global debate on the safety and future of nuclear power. this is a controversial debate in this house. each of us must decide for ourselves where we stand in this debate. but it is good that there is the debate, as controversial as it may be, in our house. although the energy mix - the composition of the energy supply from different sources - and therefore the decision for or against nuclear power is a matter for the member states, and thus the prerogative of national governments and parliaments, a european debate must nevertheless be held. because in europe we are all connected to the electricity grids of our neighbours. energy decisions in one country have an impact on the lives of people in other countries. because 30% of europe's energy today comes from nuclear power and whether it is safe is a matter for us all. while the earthquake and tsunami in japan were tragic natural disasters, the worst nuclear accident since chernobyl was caused by humans. fukushima could have been prevented. that is the lesson to be drawn from this disaster. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the demands of the world market. unlike many who have only discussed this tragedy, the european parliament has acted. we welcome the efforts made by the european commission and by the experts in our own house over the past year to make nuclear energy safer. this includes the voluntary stress tests of 143 nuclear power plants in the eu, carried out by all 14 member states where nuclear power plants are operated. the eu commission will present its final report in june. let me repeat my request at this point that nuclear power stations which fail the stress test must be taken off the grid immediately. i cannot see the point of conducting a stress test and still operating a nuclear power station that has failed. i also welcome the report on nuclear waste which we adopted in this house last year. for the first time, there are binding rules and safety standards for the handling of nuclear waste across europe. in february, the environment committee voted on a report on energy efficiency. the aim is to achieve 20% savings by 2020 to promote more efficient energy use across europe. this would indeed be an important milestone in achieving our ambitious 20-20-20 targets. let us learn from the fukushima disaster, which brought immense suffering to the people of japan, that despite the often irreconcilable differences of opinion on this issue - for or against nuclear power - we all share a responsibility for ensuring the greatest possible safety of nuclear power. we in the european parliament in particular are called upon to continue the concrete measures we have taken. the warning from fukushima is clear. not everything that is doable is also responsible. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would also like to thank the honourable members for the introduction of this debate, this review of the events in japan a year ago. i think it was very impressive what happened in many countries around the world this weekend and also how strong the signal we sent to japan was, by which we showed that we also share the grief and the concern with the entire japanese people beyond the past weekend. i think that we are called upon to look even more closely at this one year after the disaster. i had japanese guests in brussels last week, whom i had met a few weeks ago on a trip to japan and fukushima. the delegation was headed by eisaku sato, who was governor of the fukushima region for 18 years. the whole delegation from the fukushima region has made urgent appeals, demands and requests to the europeans which we must not ignore. the people in the fukushima region feel left out in the very difficult and very dangerous situation in which they live, even today. they do not feel that the japanese government is actually serious about protecting them, partly because the limits for the normal population living in the fukushima area have been raised to the level of what is normally applied to workers in the most stressed control areas of nuclear plants. that is, in japan, the fukushima region is very consciously accepting an increase in cancer, other diseases and genetic damage in the fukushima region for the next years, decades and generations. europe cannot ignore this and we must finally force the world health organization to act responsibly in such catastrophic situations. it must not be forced by the international atomic energy agency to turn a blind eye to such irresponsibility. the international atomic energy agency should also be criticised by euratom and the european commission and the member states for claiming that the fukushima nuclear power plant is under control and for not withdrawing this claim on the anniversary of the disaster. to this day, japanese experts disagree on the state of affairs in the fukushima ruins. no one can say how much nuclear fuel is still there today, the ruins are not even stabilized. at any moment an earthquake could bring these ruins crashing down, and that would spell the next disaster for the people of the region. the international atomic energy agency is aiming to spread nuclear power throughout the world. we cannot leave her in this situation to be responsible for the whole world. the pleas and demands of politicians, experts, farmers and citizens from japan and the region are: send us an international task force! the experience gained in europe in the chernobyl disaster can save lives in japan and perhaps stabilize the plant. the most severe criticism from japan concerns the european stress test. it is now being used in japan. of the 54 reactors, only two are currently running. all others are being tested against stress test criteria. toshiba engineers, actually people from the japanese "atom village", this sworn community that advocates for nuclear power, explained to me that the fukushima nuclear power plant had passed this stress test with flying colors a year before the disaster. ladies and gentlemen, this stress test is really questionable. the claim that we are creating more safety with this stress test will be tested in doubtful cases in the next nuclear disaster. i am cold-blooded when i think that a nuclear power plant in japan, which has been tested in europe, will not survive the next catastrophe. i would appeal to the representative of the european commission to consider carefully what europe has to offer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
ladies and gentlemen, who in europe today is talking about women's suffrage? no one else, because it's obvious. and how was it introduced back then? by law! so it was forced. and that's why i think it's important that we also introduce the women's quota by law today. because then you don't have to talk about it anymore, because it's as self-evident as women's suffrage is today. voluntary commitments either do not work or are not made at all, and this is true for business as well as for politics. in a representative democracy like europe, the majority of the population, that is to say women, should be adequately represented in politics. but the reality in parliaments and in parties is quite different. in business, numerous studies show that equal participation of women and men in management positions significantly improves the economic success of a company. and for almost all products, the buying decision is made by women. as a liberal, i am for competition, and i am for a free and fair market economy. but both of these only work if there is a framework that allows for exactly that freedom and that fairness. this framework does not exist for women in management positions. i therefore look forward to the proposals you will make in may, madam vice-president, for more women in management positions. i think it's about time.
i have to say, madam president, mrs bauer said earlier that everything is as usual. we talk about equality every year, that's right. but some things change a little bit. i feel like there's more men in the room this year than last time, and i think that's very good. i would like to thank mr gustafsson, the chairman of the women's committee, who is very committed to the cause of women's rights, and also my liberal colleague, mr olle schmidt, who will be speaking. because it's about justice, and men also feel things are unfair and they sue, and i think that's great. something else has been different this year. last week in brussels, there was an event on the gender pay gap, and one of the speakers started her speech in a very strange way. she said men are less qualified, but they make more money and pay more taxes. women are better qualified, have higher education, but they earn less money and pay less tax. she then asked whether it might not be wrong for us to support female students in universities if they pay less in taxes. of course she meant it as a joke. she meant the opposite, and the opposite is also true. if sixty percent of the graduates with university degrees are women, can we afford to give so few women the opportunity to develop into good positions? can we afford that? this is crazy! we are giving away a lot of economic opportunities. it 's been said before: with one third of women in management boards, the business climate and the success of companies are proven to be better. this is true for business, and it is equally true for politics. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mrs reding and all those who are working on this matter. we need more justice in this area.
i have to say, madam president, the annual report on equality gives us a chance to speak here about the legitimate demands of women in europe, to highlight the inequalities in society, and we take advantage of this opportunity. but we should also focus on the important things, on what we can really change now. the report by mrs in veld puts the need for economic independence at the centre of the debate. economic independence means the ability to act independently and is therefore the key to a self-determined life for both women and men. in the 1960s, women in germany had to get their husband's permission to go to work. we can only smile about it today, we've survived it. but we have not yet achieved equal pay for equal work or equal value for work. what right do men have to earn on average 17.5% more than women in europe? somebody better explain this to us. this wage gap is continuing, it is continuing into old age, and we have found in germany that pensions are so low that what women have less in retirement pensions is a gap of 59%. this is, of course, the life performance of women, which is certainly different from that of men: child rearing, family and care shapes the work biography of women differently. but these benefits are at least equivalent. i would even argue that family services and social services are actually more valuable to society than some jobs in an air-conditioned office. we must continue to work for equal pay for equal work and equal pensions if we are serious about gender equality. and on the way to that, we also need more women in leadership. i am very grateful to viviane reding, our commissioner, for making this a subject of her own and for dealing with it in the way she does. it is a very clear position on this matter and i hope for broad support across all parties. i know that we women who are giving great speeches here today often have to fight for majorities in our own parties. i invite all of us to do this together as a cross-party action, where we need broad support across all parties and across all social groups. one thing is clear: we need more women in leadership and decision-making if we want to make a difference, and we women want to make a difference. we want at least equality in europe. we all want to work together to achieve this.
ladies and gentlemen, without quotas i would not be in this parliament, but i am also confident enough to say that i am not doing a bad job and that i am not a bad politician. i think the quotas are working because in the past we had a 100% male quota and that is what we have to break down. in fact, women's equality in europe is progressing. at a snail's pace, but fortunately in the right direction. it is particularly in crises such as the present one that it becomes clear that the pressure on women, that discrimination against women in the labour market in europe is still very high. women are being laid off first, we have a lot of declining salaries in typical female jobs, and women in leadership positions are still in short supply, despite higher levels of education and training. we have talked about this today, and it is not news that women in europe still earn less than their male counterparts, but it is not enough to talk about it and discuss it. we must also start to change fundamental structures. occupations in which women predominate are generally less well paid. we need new and more objective job evaluations, and more transparency on pay would also be an important step towards equal pay. the culture of silence in the workplace means that women don't know that they are being paid less. if we had more transparency there, they might also be able to fight back, and that needs to be addressed now in the same way as quotas in supervisory boards, in leadership positions or even in political functions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the community. if there were such a report, we would find that -- and we know this in real life -- a lot of men who are not very efficient and not very high-end are very high-end. and then we would get the idea that maybe the moment of great performance, which is supposed to be the exclusive criterion for the top position, is not the only moment. there is a glass ceiling for women, also called structural discrimination, and as long as it exists, we need the quota. it's very simple. and the quota is just a formality, and that is the prerequisite for achieving real equality and justice between the sexes. i think we should not be squeamish about this, we should support it clearly and that is why i am very clear in favour of the quota.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for european citizens who own assets in another country or live in a country other than their own, it is currently virtually impossible to plan their estate in a reasonable and legally secure manner. the heirs, for their part, face conflicts that are partly insoluble but in any case cost time and money. twelve million eu citizens live in another member state. many have assets in another country. 13% of marriages are inter-country and about 20 million third-country nationals live in the eu. they're all affected. the need for a uniform european regulation is obvious. in future, citizens will be able to vote and determine that the law of their home country should apply to their estate. this right to vote is something entirely new for most member states. if a citizen does not have a choice of law, the law of the state in which he had his habitual residence or the centre of his activities at the time of his death shall apply to his estate. that thereafter, the relevant inheritance and, of course, also the compulsory share law applies to the entire estate. including land ownership, wherever it is. so there will be no more division of the estate. the courts will be able to apply their own law in most cases and, unlike in the past, judicial decisions will be mutually recognised. for heirs who have had to deal with authorities and courts in several countries, it is particularly important to create a european certificate of succession, which must be recognised in all member states as proof of succession and can be used for entries in registers and land registers, but also for disposing of assets such as bank accounts. this will bring enormous relief and simplification to citizens, real benefits, saving time and money! i would like to make a few brief points. firstly, the regulation does not apply to inheritance tax. this remains unchanged. this is always the first or second question put by the citizens, and it would indeed be worth taking the initiative. secondly, the respective national laws on succession and compulsory succession remain unchanged. thirdly, the new rules will not apply until three years after the entry into force of the regulation. fourthly, the united kingdom and ireland have made use of their opt-out. we hope they'll join us. the same applies to denmark. unlike other regulations in this field, such as rome i or rome ii, it is not a codification and rounding up of existing agreements, but a fundamental new creation for all member states. the excellent quality of the commission's proposal deserves special recognition and respect for this reason. nevertheless, considerable improvements were made during the two and a half years of negotiations. this is thanks to the intensive cooperation of all the institutions. i thank my colleagues on the legal affairs committee for their important contributions and support, which have made it possible to achieve some substantial improvements and additions. the council, however, has also done the same, and in all its formations it has worked intensively on the dossier and contributed to clarifications and improvements. i would like to thank the danish presidency in particular for bringing the discussions to a close, in a sense closing the bag. finally, i would like to thank the commission once again for not only having put forward a good proposal but also for having provided excellent technical and substantive support and influence to the discussions. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. please pass on my thanks. the regulation is comparatively simple and understandable to the public. the discussions, however, raised some difficult questions to answer and clarify. all were willing to find a common solution for the benefit of the citizens. that's why everyone's made some concessions so that it's better for everyone. i am grateful for this too.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, believe me, i am very glad to see that this proposal is on the agenda of this plenary sitting because citizens have been waiting for a long time, for too long. the council identified this problem back in 2000 as an area for action and this is now the first time that an eu instrument has been adopted in the area of succession. this is not just for a few people, because around 10% of the total number of successions in the eu involve an international dimension. the value is about eur 120 billion, so this regulation provides a unique opportunity to show that europe is taking action to make life easer for citizens in difficult human and legal situations. i am very much aware that succession is a delicate, sensitive area which is intrinsically linked to national policies on family protection and judicial systems, and that there are considerable differences between the national laws, but fortunately we have had a wonderful rapporteur, mr lechner. by the way, i think this is one of the last actions he will take in this parliament, because he will be retiring. i think, mr lechner, with this action you have left a stamp on the european parliament and i think we can all thank you for the work you have done in the interests of the citizens of europe. the result which the rapporteur is proposing is remarkable and the commission lends its full support to it. the resolution which is for adoption tomorrow maintains the main policy objectives set for the commission, namely that successions will be governed by one single law – that of the country of habitual residence of the deceased. people will be able to plan their succession in advance by choosing the law of their country of nationality wherever they move in the european union, and there will be free movement of court decisions and of authentic instruments in europe. the cherry on the cake is, of course, the european certificate of succession which will enable people to prove their status as heirs and exercise their rights throughout the eu. i absolutely agree with the rapporteur that the text which has been under discussion for such a long time has been very much improved thanks to the arduous work of the rapporteur and the committee. the rapporteur insisted in particular on ensuring legal certainty for people who drafted wills prior to this regulation, so thank you very much for the work you have done on this. i am sure this is one of the points we can put on the table during the european year of citizens in order to show that, yes, we care for citizens.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's a shame this house never learns. we are sitting here at this late hour of the night debating an extremely important piece of legislation which, according to commissioner reding, directly affects 10% of the citizens of the european union, that is to say 50 million people, and which affects a much larger number, namely the possible heirs, probably also to a considerable extent indirectly, and we are not so many today simply because of the circumstances, it is night again. perhaps the conference of presidents should consider whether it should not even spare itself a strategic debate on a pointless summit without a conclusion and instead put such a subject on the agenda in a more prominent place, one that really touches people. i think the reputation of this house would be much better than that of many in the public eye at the moment. in fact, this is an incredibly important project, and it's also been an incredibly difficult project. it has been a very complex project and i would therefore like to express my sincere thanks to mr kurt lechner, who has worked for a very long time in this committee and has been one of its most competent and best members, for this work. kurt is leaving this committee and this parliament a real farewell gift, a very important, political and also legally very valuable farewell gift, and i think that should be said here, in this debate, because he has decided for himself that he will resign at the end of this week and then, unfortunately, i regret it once again, leaves us at this point. i can only hope that the council will be impressed by what has been decided in this report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think the council would do well to simply agree to the lechner report, and then we would have a finished dossier that would help the citizen in our europe, and that would be a good thing, and would also take us further in the direction of a europe for the citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are in the process of reorganizing the law of succession and family law with regard to the law applicable and the jurisdiction and recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments. we have already done so with regard to the maintenance regulation and the right to divorce. tomorrow we'll vote on the law of inheritance and the law of property will follow. as mr lehne has already said, this plenary session is not about any political questions that have been raised, but about helping the citizens in a very concrete way to solve problems that are partly insoluble. in the worst case, in a crossborder succession, the heirs can take their cases to the highest court in different member states, spending a lot of time and money, and then have two conflicting decisions because the courts have applied their own law. this is to be avoided in future. we are facing a change of system in the law of inheritance. the courts of the member state in whose territory the deceased was habitually resident at the time of his death shall have jurisdiction in respect of the whole of the estate. because we assume that you have a stronger connection to the country you live in. but if, for example, a german who lives permanently in strasbourg feels that he has a closer connection with germany, he can also apply and vote for german law as regards his right of succession. in order to avoid a french court having to apply complicated german inheritance law, there is also the possibility of bringing the succession before a german court, and citizens who like to spend the winter in mallorca do not have to be afraid: no matter how long you take a holiday somewhere, there is no ordinary stay in the holiday country. this regulation is also without prejudice to inheritance tax. denmark, the united kingdom and ireland, as we have heard, are not participating because of their opt-outs. it is a pity because so many british people have holiday properties in southern europe and these would then also be subject to the common law and not to the law of the country where the properties are located as they are now. a large-scale information campaign will then be necessary. i would also like to thank mr lechner again for the extensive work he has done and the solution he has found. his work shows how important it is that not only professional politicians but also professional practitioners are represented in this parliament.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, thank you also for the kind words you have spoken on my departure. that will be in exactly four days and one hundred and fifty minutes, and i can say that i will try to make it as long as possible before the blessings of these regulations can be applied to myself. i should like to thank all the honourable members for their valuable contributions and for their support, and i would also like to thank the commission in particular. it was a great collaboration, and it was the foundation of what we came to here. it is the nature of things and the complexity of life situations and conflicts of interest in this complex that there cannot be a satisfactory solution for every conceivable situation. there are always questions and problems. i would like to begin by saying that i agree with mr berlinguer on everything he has said here. i would like to say to mrs regner that there has been a misunderstanding. it's not that clawback and administration aren't regulated. clawback is about how gifts during life are included in the compulsory portion, and that's settled. it is not just regulated in the way that our british or irish friends and colleagues would like it to be. whether we will ever come to another common solution is another question, and mr batten has apparently overlooked the fact that british citizens living in france or belgium and owning property in france, belgium or other countries are already subject to foreign law and not british law. if we now take a few years of practical experience and clarifications into account, we can envisage a further development. i personally could imagine, for example, that the freedom of design of the heir and the possibilities of legal choice could be extended in ten or twenty years, but that is the music of the future. in any case, we are making a massive improvement for the benefit of the citizens and also for the courts and the authorities. this regulation is a huge step forward for citizens and marks a milestone in european legal history.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. this year we are celebrating the united nations' year of cooperatives. cooperatives are part of the social and solidarity economy and have a very special significance for the economy in the european union as well. 160 million companies are active in this sector. they have 120 million members who own these companies, and 5.4 million employees. this shows that the cooperative sector is important. it is rooted in the region. it has proved to be resilient, especially in the financial crisis, and at the same time it is also contributing to the achievement of the eu 2020 objectives, not only in terms of growth and employment, but also in terms of social cohesion and climate protection. the european union should therefore take seriously the treaty's mandate to be neutral in relation to different forms of property and take account of the specific features of cooperatives. we have had a particularly good cooperation with all the shadow rapporteurs on this report, and i would like to thank them very much. i'm seeing evelyn regner here too, late at night. we have paid particular attention to the question of how the european cooperative statute, which has just been created within the framework of the european cooperative, can be changed. it is sad that the recognition that has come with the creation of the european legal form of cooperatives for the cooperative sector has not been crowned with much success. in total, despite a lengthy process, only 17 european cooperatives have been set up and only 32 workers find employment there. it is clear that this procedure of directive and statute is too complicated. it does not meet the sector's needs for its cross-border business. we therefore want a revision, but first of all of the statute, without lowering the standards that have been created in a sensible way. the standards for employees must be given special consideration. but our committee on employment and social affairs did not stop there, we also looked at other measures to support the social and solidarity economy sector. we note above all that the responsibilities for this sector in the commission are very fragmented, despite several statements by parliament. the lack of resources is also reflected in the lack of results. we have a small staff in this area and it is spread over the various directorates-general. we would like the commission to take an initiative to strengthen the open method of coordination in this area and to initiate a process of systematic comparison of the best practices in the member states in promoting the social and solidarity economy. we also propose that the activities already decided by the commission in its 2004 communication on strengthening the cooperative sector, i.e. the 12 actions put on the agenda there, should now be implemented. only three of the 12 actions were implemented. what is still lacking, for example, is a comprehensive training programme in this field, but also a systematic recognition of the specific features of cooperatives. we also want to see the cooperatives and the social economy recognised, particularly in the field of public procurement and state aid and in the regulation of financial markets in particular. it cannot be that the very sectors which proved to be particularly helpful during the financial crisis are now the victims of the rules after the crisis. my appeal to the commission is that the rules governing the internal market must be exceeded in this area. get out of here! strengthen the social and solidarity economy!
i declare the 2012-13 session of the european parliament open.
the next item is the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 1 and 2 march 2012
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the statement that we are not out of the crisis yet, but that we still have many tasks to do, was correct. but it is also right and part of the process that we can say that part of the problems have been solved and that we are on the right track. part of solving big problems is to take a little courage when you've gone a little further and make sure: is this the right way or is it the wrong way? i do not think that debates like the one we had at the beginning, or campaigns like this, will help at all if we want to encourage young people to take a stand for the future and for europe. they're no good at all, they're just bad. back to the topic: organizing growth and stability. if we want to continue to have a good economic development in europe and if we want to give the people, the young people in europe, a future, then we must manage our money properly and finally get a handle on what has happened so often in the past. being careful and careful with money is not about saving up, but about being honest and sensible with money. we've all made our mistakes, by the way. more or less. we haven't done enough checking either, if one or the other has gotten out of hand. if we want to move forward and organise growth, it does not mean putting more money in our hands and making some more programmes and writing some more road maps - no one is looking through them anymore - but it means setting up structures, setting up incentives. there are also member states and economies which have made good progress. why would you do that? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we all together thought a little more about whether this or that meeting or new regulation we are having here is absolutely necessary, if we thought more about where we can promote innovation, research, etc., we would probably do more for growth in europe than with many of the funny sayings we make here. we need courage, commitment and trust in people and especially in young people. that is why i believe in less regulation and more innovation and research, not just in words, but in real policy, every day when we make decisions here. i wish i could.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we agree that we want a culture of stability for europe. in any case, we hear this all the time, and we should look at what has been achieved with this fiscal pact. it is an important step towards this culture of stability. it's not a turning point, and it's not the solution. it is not a panacea, and we all agree on that. but i think, and i have to be honest, it's an important step forward. we want balanced budgets with very low primary deficits, if there is no other way. we want a debt brake in the countries of the euro zone. we want automatic punishment for sinners before the child is in the well. we want the old debts to be cancelled and the report to be sent to brussels before new debts are made. we want the esm to come into force sooner and only countries that join this fiscal pact to have access to the esm. these are all important elements for a culture of stability in europe, and with the twopack we are also trying to transpose them into european law, including a debt-repayment pact, which my group is expressly calling for. we want to give greece growth impulses. there's money for that. the structural funds have 16 to 18 billion, the figures vary. i think it's time to get this thing going. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and then we have a debate today, and this surprises me, even in the german bundestag, where the social democrats are now threatening not to agree to this fiscal pact unless there is a specific tax that can be argued about with flying colors. but i think that would be a massive mistake, and i think it is important that the social democrats also take their responsibility for stability and agree to this pact without playing party games. ladies and gentlemen, i think it is really crucial that we now move forward on the path to a culture of stability. let me conclude by congratulating you, mr van rompuy, on your new appointment. you personally are doing an excellent job, by all accounts. i still think that your position, as set out in the lisbon treaty, is a misconstruction. i would like to see a president of europe who is elected directly if possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission is not prepared to accept this. what is the view of the citizens on the handling of the crisis after the last summit? the citizens are aware that the banks receive about 1 trillion euros from the ecb, and that without any conditions. there are no conditions attached to these trillions, the banks can use this money however they want. the crisis countries, on the other hand, are being gagged and forced into a disastrous austerity policy. the citizens of the countries in crisis have to give up their wages, have to accept cuts in pensions and social benefits. but unlike germany, the economies of these countries in crisis do not depend on exports, but on the internal markets of these countries, and it is these internal markets that are being strangled, destroyed by this enforced austerity policy. that is not the way out of the crisis, mr barroso, mr rompuy. this is a political blow to the eu.
i would like to thank you very much, mr van rompuy. you said that the enthusiasm for your re-election has been expressed in various forms in the political ranks here. i think it is quite normal that enthusiasm in a heterogeneous parliament should be limited. but i can assure you that the whole of the european parliament congratulates you on your re-election and rest assured that we are aware of the difficult task you face. i would also like to say that your personal attitude and your absolute personal integrity impress the entire house. i would like to congratulate you on your achievement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. a step into the reality of economic development: in italy growth has slowed down at the beginning of the year, in spain it has slowed down more sharply, in portugal it is not better, even the netherlands is having problems and even in germany industrial orders are falling. the commission president said before he left that we had a useful conversation this morning. i'm trying to figure out what he means. the president of the commission and the president of the european council have said 'growth and employment' ten or fifteen times this morning, and that is true. has this changed anything or will it change anything? i'm not going to. because just by piling up empty words, nothing changes. i would therefore like to know what is new in the way the european council, the member states and the commission are dealing with the problem. there was one point made by mr barroso, who said: yes, structural reforms must also deal with social cohesion. i think that is a very important point. what do you mean, "i'm not"? do you accept the idea of mr swoboda and the socialist group that all young people must have a perspective, and we are doing that now? do you want minimum wages in all european member states that dynamically adapt to productivity and growth? is that what you want? then you say, "there must be growth". your services have always denied that we have anything to do with investment here, because you said it's structural reforms alone. that is why the memorandum of understanding seems so modest in each case. so, where's that investment corridor we were arguing about at the six-pack? because if you don't say anything about investment, you don't say anything about growth. the time for empty words is over. we're waiting for a response. (applause from the centre)
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the request for an oral answer to the council on the european globalisation adjustment fund emergency derogation by pervenche berès and marian harkin, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000014/2012 - b7-0102/2012).
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are voting on a regulation which will bring great benefits to all those citizens who own assets in another country or live in a country other than their own, for example in brussels, if they are not belgian. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including the introduction of a new system of taxation of capital. i thank all the members, the council and the commission for the excellent cooperation and i would like to conclude by making the following very serious remark: i hope that it will be many years, even decades, before we can benefit from the improvements in this regulation. stay healthy! (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, in our whole line, the machine didn't work. i ask you to repeat the vote. our lights didn't work on the whole row.
i have to say, madam president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr kurt lechner, very warmly. if it is our task to create a little more legal certainty for the citizens, a little more confidence in the european union, then i think that kurt lechner has presented a very good report today. this deserves our respect! we have put forward a proposal which for the first time guarantees legal certainty in international succession matters and which will give european citizens the choice between the law of succession of the country in which they live and that of their country of origin. i think that is a major step forward towards becoming a self-determined citizen of the union. we believe that this will also make it much easier to administer estates in europe. it is also a successful step towards the creation of a european internal market and a european legal culture.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report because it simplifies and improves the right of self-determination of union citizens to determine their personal heritage. in future, everyone can choose whether to choose the law of inheritance of his home country or of the country in which he lives. the possibility of foundations is also left untouched.
in writing. - i rejected the report. the commission's proposal is a good one, but it is not enough to make it clear that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. the combination of many parts of the text that are only partially homogeneous and adequate in content gives the impression that they are all women's rights. for example, it is expressly stated that it is regrettable that in some member states families are being supported. i believe that family support is a fundamental political issue which i will not abandon. the socialisation of political errors, as proposed by the rapporteur, does not make them better.
in writing. - i am in favour of introducing quotas for women in management positions in companies, public administration and political bodies. quota regulation is never satisfactory. voluntary development would be the better way to go. however, in my long political work in this field, i have learned that the only way to break through the so-called "old boys networks" is through quotas. the network is not set up to keep women out of management positions, but is automatically created as women move through their careers. but their effect is exactly that. women find it difficult to enter these circles. i also vote in favour of legalizing abortion. again, it would be better if there were no abortions. the reality is different. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. if you didn't do that, it wouldn't necessarily mean that there would be fewer abortions. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the resolution on the statute for a european cooperative society with regard to employee participation. it is good that we in the european parliament are devoting special attention to the subject of cooperatives in the international year of cooperatives 2012. there are some 160 000 cooperatives in the european union, owned by more than a quarter of all europeans and employing some 5.4 million people. in my home state of bavaria alone there are over 1,200 cooperatives and cooperative enterprises with more than 2.7 million members. cooperatives are a pillar of our economy. their performance is even more evident in times of crisis: cooperatives are co-responsible. cooperative banks, for example, have shown a high degree of sustainability and resilience during the financial crisis, thanks in particular to their cooperative business model. they didn't lose billions in the crisis like others. no, their balance sheet actually shows an increase in their sales and growth figures. they provide 5.4 million high-quality and crisis-proof jobs across europe. cooperatives are at home in their region. they are a model for the future: for our regions and for europe. in particular, in the context of eu development policy, we can make a contribution by promoting the cooperative model, which reaches out to people, actively involves them and promotes their independence. we need more and more of our own impulses for the cooperatives.
in writing. - the bologna process has unfortunately not developed as originally intended. this is disappointing for the many young people who see the european single market as their future. that is why something must be done urgently. the committee on the internal market is currently working on an important improvement in the mutual recognition of professional qualifications. but that will not be enough, the member states must also do more!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank mr kallas. we have to expect even more traffic in the coming years as competition increases, and if we look at the figures, we see that over a quarter of the current co2 emissions are already produced in the transport sector. for us, that means we have to reduce co2 emissions and we have to increase transport efficiency. i think that your text is on the right track, since your proposal for a guideline is primarily about giving priority to environmentally friendly modes of transport. but now the 'but', commissioner kallas: i find it all the more incomprehensible that you have actually considered allowing cross-border traffic on europe's roads with these so-called monster trucks or gigaliners. i would be grateful if you could tell us why you have considered this without waiting for the road safety and environmental analyses and how you intend to proceed in the future. you know this is a very sensitive issue and we are not in favour of it.
does this mean, commissioner, that the legal position which still prevails at the moment, according to which these gigolinery drivers were prohibited from travelling across frontiers, still exists, or is this legal position no longer valid?
my question to commissioner andor and commissioner barnier is: do you agree with me that the charter of fundamental rights contains the fundamental rights of citizens and workers? i have heard that the commission is planning a monti ii regulation and i have heard that it states that the fundamental right to strike may only be exercised if it is proportionate to the freedom to provide services. this means that if a service provider wants to engage in social dumping, it can do so. but if the unions call for a strike, they must ask first whether this might harm the service provider. the right to strike is therefore clearly restricted. the question i have is: can you explain to me what the advantage of such a monti ii regulation is? and who benefits from such a monti ii regulation?
i'm not going to tell you. you didn't answer my question. is it true that the text states that the right to strike and the corresponding measures to strike or similar threats should be proportionate to the freedom to provide economic services? is that what the text says or not? and my last question is: do you think parliament will agree to such a regulation? i assume it will reject them.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not alone. i would like to thank you very much for the proposal you have put forward. it is not so easy to present a budget with so many interests in it in this way, and mr la via has succeeded in making the priorities of this parliament as clear as possible. i believe that the budgetary guidelines are based on three fundamental axioms: he must be balanced, he must be reasonable and he must be responsible. mr lamassoure has just pointed out that we have had two consecutive budgets for savings. that's right, we had to do that in this situation. member states may only provide services to a limited extent during this period. at the same time, my predecessor rightly pointed out that we need to make investments. but these are complementary events: i have to create structures based on responsibility, including in the handling of tax money, in order to be able to invest, otherwise we are throwing good money after bad. that can't be in our best interest in our line of work. i therefore think it is important that we should also make a parliamentary reference to this in the guidelines. finally, we have played a major role in ensuring that the member states agreed to automatic sanctions after the summit on 1 and 2 march, and this must of course be done. i would like the commission to be responsible for this issue and not the council, because then we would be sure that it will be implemented. but at the same time we must also support the member states through european added value. the question of smes has been raised. they are the backbone of our european economy. it is not the big institutions or the big corporations that create jobs. it is smes that ensure that the engine of growth and employment in europe continues to function. we must therefore use the money wisely. more money does not necessarily mean better policy. in conclusion, i would like to agree with mr lamassoure that we must solve the problem of residues in liquid form. and above all with regard to the budget - it is a pity that the member states are not represented - it would be sensible for us to make a reasonable budget ex ante, so as not to put ourselves in a difficult situation by means of amending budgets.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the task facing all 27 member states of the european union is to implement the debt brake, to push ahead with the necessary structural reforms and to invest in new competitiveness. the commissioner has rightly said that consolidation is an important - if not a pleasant - but necessary task, but it is not enough. the question is, how do we invest particularly wisely in the next few years? it is clear that the european budget has no debt, it is only 1% of the gross domestic product of the member states, and yet it is clear that the european budget has a necessary role to play in determining what will be the real future investments for the european union in the coming years. the council and parliament have already agreed on the modernisation strategy, called eu-2020. it is primarily about investing in inclusive growth and sustainability, i.e. in renewable energy, in new energy networks, in research in this area, which really makes us better, both in the european internal market and in the world market. because only when we have sustainable new products will we also create new jobs. we now have new studies that tell us once again that if we really invest in sustainable agricultural policy, in sustainability with the structural funds, we will create more new jobs than with the old measures. we have just celebrated the sad first anniversary of fukushima. you have just said that we must do everything possible to finance the iter fusion reactor. i think that is a bad decision because nuclear waste is also produced with this technology. we would be well advised to concentrate our resources, which we really need, on non-hazardous technologies, on new sustainable technologies and products. that would speed up europe's progress.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not let me start with the positive. i would like to emphasize that we welcome what mr la via's report says on growth, namely that growth is the priority. we believe that growth that creates jobs and is suitable for combating youth unemployment is extremely important. i also stress and welcome the statements on research and investment in research. what i lack, however, are clearer statements on combating poverty within europe, but also on combating poverty throughout the world, on a global scale. i also lack the statements to address climate change. i would like to express my criticism of the first part of the report. it is a question of automatic sanctions. i think it is a mistake to threaten member states with automatic sanctions when they are already in a difficult budgetary situation. we reject that. but what i would like to emphasize again, and what i think is useful, is that the budgets of the member states and the eu should be coordinated more closely, with democratic legitimacy. one final note on the subject of cuts: i would like to emphasize that we do not consider budget cuts to be appropriate. we specifically mentioned it: croatia will become a member later this year. we have a whole new set of tasks in the eu, we have had the new supervisory authorities for over a year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are the most important aspects in my view. we hope that in this way we can help to ensure that there is no budgetary cutbacks. that would be very important to us.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not it is important that the european parliament condemns for the second time in a short period the abuse of children as cheap labour or slaves. yes to the agreement. we have had a shameful debate in the committee on trade and industry whether we should condemn only child labour or child labour in the sense of the un convention on the rights of the child. we are facing two setbacks here and we should therefore be working on them. mr sturdy, with the recital e put forward by your group, the resolution trivializes the hard work of children on the cocoa plantations. these children are being deprived of educational opportunities and their future. we should delete this paragraph. mrs köstinger, and ladies and gentlemen of the epp, in recital d you have insisted that parliament should turn a blind eye to the fact that children are being abducted and sold in west africa to do hard and dangerous forced labour on cocoa plantations. in particular in côte d'ivoire and ghana, this has been talked about, this is a terrible reality. watch the documentary "dirty chocolate" on the cost of a child. the children are being abducted from mali, and the international labour organization estimates that there are more than 12 000 children without relatives on the ivory coast plantations. so the next time we eat chocolate, we should ask ourselves very specifically, what childhood destiny brings us this pleasure? we must be much more decisive in our response.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we're in a bit of a dilemma with this file. on the one hand, we all reject child labor and i have to say frankly, as a father of four, i am sick of thinking about what other children have to do in doubt to get my children to drink a cup of kava in the morning. on the other hand, we must not deny that we have to put the countries in a position where they can also introduce minimum social standards. that they can fund schools and education, that they can build the social security systems. the dilemma we're facing here is that if we don't trade with those countries, there's no money coming into those countries to build all these things that we want. and when we trade with countries, we are faced with the dilemma that we have situations that we consider to be intolerable at the moment. that is why i welcome this agreement. i am particularly grateful to the colleagues who have dealt with this subject in committee. because i firmly believe that this agreement is a good way forward. we are open to criticism, but we are not saying, 'we will not do business with you until you put the world in order.' we are trying to develop a common realistic roadmap to help countries get out of this dilemma, because our common interest is not just in enjoying a decent piece of chocolate or a good cup of kaba, but our common interest is at least as much in a good future for the children in these countries.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. chocolate and cocoa are not only a delight to children's hearts but also to adults. we are in strasbourg now, but we are mostly in brussels, and there brussels chocolate is something that is very much appreciated and bought and given away. and most people do not care where the cocoa comes from, under what conditions it is grown, or how the chocolate is made. it has already become clear from this debate that we have to think about the fact that child labour is linked to being able to import this cocoa at all. it is not just a question of, as mrs köstinger said, seeing whether the children are with their families or not, whether they are forced to work or not, but of being aware that the conditions in which these children work are actually harmful to their health. that this cocoa is produced under conditions that are massively detrimental to health, including by children. we just have to stop that from happening. we must therefore do everything we can to ensure that countries like ghana and côte d'ivoire - developing countries that are trying to create better living conditions for their people - are also buying fairly. this has been said on several occasions, and that is why i think that a quality label might be the right way to go, and i am pleased to see the great consensus here in parliament.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a trade dispute of 14 years will end tomorrow with the vote on this report. the trade dispute goes back to a 1999 wto arbitration case in which the european union lost, and since then we have been forced to import hormone-treated meat from the usa, so to speak. there were sanctions on both sides. but i don't want to talk about the past, i want to express my joy that we have managed to end this now. the danish presidency has already agreed to my report on behalf of the council in an informal trilogue. and so there is nothing to stop us from voting tomorrow and ending this dispute. i am therefore asking for your support. it's a compromise, yeah. but the compromise is very balanced in my eyes. the european agricultural industry in particular will now have planning security which has not been the case until now. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the transatlantic relations. we have some differences to settle. we must not forget that the european union is a major player in the world economy. let's not kid ourselves. only together will the us and the eu be able to stand up in the globalised world of tomorrow. i therefore welcome the fact that we have now set up, for example, a 'high level working group on jobs and growth' in which we want to work together to ensure that growth is actually ordered and enabled. i would like to make one final point, and that is with regard to the future. since the bse cases in the eu, the us has banned beef imports from the eu. but there is no longer any scientific basis for this, since there have been no cases of bse in our country for several years. the united states has not yet lifted the import ban for purely protectionist reasons. this is unacceptable. i have therefore sent letters to all those involved in this legislative process and had a number of talks. i have asked the us agriculture minister, mr vilsack, and the trade representative, mr ron kirk, in particular, to complete the procedure for lifting the import ban as soon as possible. i have some very good news to share with you, and i am very happy about that. on friday 9 march the ministry of agriculture in washington published the so-called 'draft rule' under the compulsory consultation procedure. this is the first step towards the adoption of the important measures to lift the import ban. i hereby ask the united states not to jeopardize the cooperative climate in this area and to conclude this procedure as soon as possible. allow me now to express my heartfelt thanks. i would like to thank both the commission and the council presidency for the good cooperation they have shown, but above all i would like to thank the committee on agriculture. i know that for my colleagues on the committee on agriculture, not every step in this procedure has been an easy one. but you were more than cooperative. thank you very much.
member of the commission. - mr president, in conclusion, i can only welcome the fact that we have reached this stage. as some of you have mentioned, so that we can say that we are happy on both sides. this bse issue also needs to be finalised on the us side. what happened on 9 march was a good step in the right direction. mrs mcguinness had mentioned the question of the lactic acid treatment. the european commission has repeatedly - in fact, every time it has had the opportunity in its relations with the united states - stated that this lactic acid issue should be dealt with in a scientific manner and not as a bargaining chip. in the same way as we are asking that the bse issue be dealt with in a scientific way. when there is scientific evidence that we have control of this disease, this measure should not be used as a non-tariff barrier. as regards lactic acid, this is the approach chosen by the european commission to deal with this issue. efsa has carried out scientific studies on the treatment of carcases with lactic acid. the european commission will come up with a position based on the scientific analysis and i hope that this issue will not hinder the us decision on bse. as regards the more practical regulation on the quota system, some may think that it is not perfect, but unfortunately we do not have a perfect system. we are currently analysing, following complaints from various importers, how these systems can be improved to ensure greater transparency and predictability. but even here we are limited by the methods we know. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a decision on the issue of the quality system for geographical indications, and whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture and rural development. but it is hoped that the world trade organization will also recognise this system of geographical indications. in fact, with some countries, some large countries like china for example, but also with others, the question of the recognition of geographical indication systems is always discussed in bilateral agreements. we hope that we can make progress with the united states on this issue as well. a good sign that things can move forward is the agreement recently reached on the mutual recognition of our certification systems for organic products. european products can now be exported to the us market with a european organic certification, and american products can be exported to the european market. this shows that negotiations and agricultural and agri-food diplomacy can also produce good results. i would like to thank mrs quisthoudt-rowohl again for the reports and thank the european parliament for proving once again that the codecision system not only gives more legitimacy to decisions taken at european level, but also makes it possible to do so in a short time and in an efficient way.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, your last remark was the best. the co-decision procedure, which we have now since the treaty of lisbon, has proved its worth here, in this particular case. my report is not only a report on high quality beef, but also a signal that some relations between the usa and the eu, which have been a little frosty and not very optimistic lately, can be improved again. insofern is the ganze positive. second is a look at the future. the commission has confirmed that: there is still much to be done, and we must of course also give our predecessor mcguinness the right to buy the details. this is only the beginning of improved transatlantic trade relations. one last point i would like to mention and which i take from my long years of experience in parliament as not really a matter of course: the handelssausschuss and the landwirtschaftsausschuss have come to the same conclusions with a significant product. this is not entirely new, but it is not always the case. that's why i freaked out yesterday. thank you very much.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. the report, known as 'omnibus i' for short, is essentially the adaptation of all eu trade law and our procedures to the new provisions of the lisbon treaty, namely articles 290 and 291. the treaty of lisbon gives the european parliament a say in trade matters that no other parliament in the european union has in this form. our model here is actually the american congress and not our colleagues in the national capitals. until now, european trade policy has been essentially explicitly excluded from the existing comitology procedures, with the council always taking the final decision. now this special regime is over. the commission now has executive power in trade policy, as in other eu policies. but the commission cannot do this in an airless room. i should like to briefly outline the main changes proposed in my draft report. firstly, the need to take account of the 'common understanding'. the european parliament has agreed with the commission and the council on a 'common understanding' by subjecting the application of delegated acts and the application of implementing rules to a single model. i am surprised that the commission has not taken this into account in its proposal. that is why my report deals with this and follows the common understanding. secondly, the report confirms the introduction of delegated acts in all the areas proposed by the commission. thirdly, the question of the examination procedure or the consultation procedure. we support the commission's proposal to use the examination procedure when implementing provisions are applied in the vast majority of cases. however, there are cases where the examination procedure would be too lengthy. we need a different procedure for that, and we recommend counselling. fourthly, the consultation procedure. we support the commission's proposal to provide for an obligation to inform the member states when anti-dumping and anti-subsidy proceedings are initiated, instead of consultations which are no longer necessary. we do not want to see deadlines in the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulation extended to the maximum of the wto possibilities. industry and trade partners need planning certainty. the only way to do that is to cut the deadlines. the measures are more effective then. the draft report therefore provides for a reduction in the time limits. there are always exceptions. the report also recommends that most of the regulations now in force should include a reporting obligation on the part of the commission to the european parliament and the public. the importance of this is now being demonstrated by the debate on the acta procedure. the procedure was not entirely transparent. we live in an internet age, so you can't go out and inform enough. my report is in line with the amendments to the treaty of lisbon. it was actually a very technical report. he was very elaborate in purely technical matters. it is also highly political because it opens up a new era in the very important field of external economic relations. thank you to all the shadow reporters. i thank commissioner de gucht for his report. i would ask you, mr cioloş, to convey this thanks.
member of the commission. - mr president, let me first of all say that commissioner de gucht had already planned a trip abroad today. because of the late confirmation of this item on the agenda, he was not able to change his itinerary and be present, as he would have wished, here with you today. that is why he asked me to speak on behalf of the commission on this matter. the commission is very grateful to mrs quisthoudt-rowohl and the fictitious rapporteur, mr moreira, and to the other members of the committee on international trade for their constructive approach to this proposal. this is an important proposal as it is the first and most important step in bringing existing legislation on the common commercial policy into line with the new regime for implementing and delegated acts. the commission is keen to work with parliament and the council to bring this legislative dossier to a conclusion as quickly as possible. a very large number of amendments will be voted on this week. obviously, i can't comment on every one of them. the three institutions will have to work in detail to deal with these amendments. i shall confine myself to a few general remarks. firstly, in principle, the commission can accept any amendment which suggests the use of the consultation procedure for preparatory measures. secondly, the commission acknowledges that the delegated acts should be inserted in the provisional safeguard mechanism regulation for china. thirdly, the commission is grateful for the amendments concerning the anti-dumping regulation. the commission supports the spirit of the amendments which seek to address the timing issues related to the application of new comitology rules to anti-dumping regulations. however, these amendments raise a number of practical or legal problems. the commission is waiting and hoping to find an effective way of dealing with these issues in the discussion between the three institutions after the votes in parliament. let me conclude by expressing the commission's appreciation for the work done so far. at this stage we still have the prospect of working together to succeed in finalising this dossier in time for its adoption.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am extremely sorry that we are debating this very important subject so late at night and without the presence of the public and the commissioner responsible. i am not expressly blaming the commissioner, but i am extremely sorry that this report, which takes up and sets out many of the things that this parliament has been fighting for for decades, particularly in the field of the common foreign trade policy, is therefore completely lacking in public perception. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and as mrs quisthoudt-rowohl has quite rightly said, the powers which we as the european parliament have had since 1 december 2009 and which have now been added by the omnibus are not available anywhere else in the world. perhaps in the united states, but if we look at other parliaments, for example in my own country, the german bundestag, we find that the german bundestag has never had the powers in the field of the common foreign and security policy and, above all, in the field of foreign trade policy that we have as the european parliament. i am very grateful to the honourable member for the reductions in time she has made, particularly in the area of anti-dumping and anti-subsidy instruments. i think it was necessary. i am extremely grateful to the honourable member for the incredible meticulousness with which she has dealt with this subject, and i would like us to be aware of the responsibility we have as the european parliament in the area of the european union's common foreign trade policy. we are no longer the only ones who can complain that they are not taken seriously, as we were before 1 december 2009, but we have a responsibility, and i hope that we will live up to that responsibility and really take all the dossiers in our field, the key word acta has already been mentioned, seriously and seriously examine things. mr president, if you will allow me, i have one more comment which is particularly important to me on this question: we should also make use of all the means available in the european parliament so that our parliamentary administration is also able to monitor and implement all the aspects of comitology in practice, so that we can also exercise our monitoring functions.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. since the treaty of lisbon, everything has changed in european trade policy. there is a completely new legal basis and it is particularly evident that here in the european parliament the consequences of this new treaty basis are enormous. the subject we are discussing now is, at first sight, a technical one, and it is a matter of such technical terms as the introduction of the legal status of delegated acts or the adoption of implementing provisions. but behind it are very tangible commercial interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. here, time is money in the truest sense. the new requirements for transparency of non-confidential information are also of great interest to the public. mrs quisthoudt-rowohl has already raised the subject of acta. if we had been transparent about this from the beginning, who knows what discussions we might have been spared. i think that at this point we should simply say: thank you very much to the rapporteur who has guided this subject with a sovereign hand and has managed the cooperation with colleagues very well, and i hope that we will also be able to conclude this subject very soon and swiftly.
member of the commission. - mr president, allow me to make a few very brief comments in conclusion. firstly, as the debate has shown, this is a technically complex matter. however, it addresses a large number of important pieces of legislation in the area of trade policy and therefore justifies the time and effort that has been invested in bringing it to a conclusion as quickly as possible. secondly, the commission welcomes the general scope of parliament's draft amendment and is happy to work on these issues together and to discuss them in the forthcoming trilogue. thirdly and lastly, the main question remains how we will be required to manage the trade defence instruments. we should focus on this as we embark on the trilogue. let me, on behalf of the commission, thank parliament for its very thorough work on this matter and at the same time assure you of commissioner de gucht's commitment to work with parliament on the common commercial policy.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteur and thank the commission, mr cioloş, for their very good cooperation. i'll get back to you on that. we shall vote on all the amendments tomorrow and also have a final vote. it is important for me to have a plenary decision on this report, which is very important, because it is a good back-up, so that i can then go into a trilogue with my colleagues with a stronger hand. i expect we'll reach a conclusion quickly because we're all willing to compromise and be flexible. we're dealing with a case in a completely new legal environment. we all have to get along. thank you for your cooperation.
mr president, commissioner, president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i think that welcoming the news of basketball victories is an important thing because it expresses sympathy. i have always been happy when greece won the european basketball championship. i think it is important that after a long period of promise we come to the point where we start negotiations with that country. i think it is necessary to move things forward, because it is an important point that we have achieved stability in the western balkans, and after the process with croatia has been successfully completed, this should be done. i think we must also give the prospect here that we are serious about the thessaloniki agreements. but each country must also fulfil its obligations fully, and i am a little concerned that the ethnic conflicts, which are now obviously turning into religious conflicts, will make this problem a little more acute. i believe that for a successful outcome it is important that the internal conflicts do not flare up again and that the ohrid agreement is respected and that it leads to reconciliation between the groups. i really think that greece and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia should both resolve their name issues. i really don't understand either side. that there is no agreement on such a question! the progress of europe cannot depend on that, and that is why i think it is right that we should ask these countries to finally resolve this question, which is not of the greatest importance, so that we can finally get to the point.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. our group has been following developments in iceland in recent years with great interest and concern, as well as the intensive accession negotiations under way. we look at iceland primarily from the perspective of how a country with such a small population manages not only to analyse its recent social development, but also to draw conclusions and implement them in order to overcome the causes of the crisis. we see iceland on a very good track here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. some of their solutions go far beyond the crisis management practices of the eu. this is what we are all about in any accession negotiations. this requires that negotiations are not only transparent and constructive in form but also equal in content and not predetermined in outcome. some of my colleagues may consider the domestic political constellation in iceland and accession to be politically inefficient. the political core, however, is different. the icelandic population, which is very pro-european by the way - many icelanders have studied and worked in europe - has high expectations of the negotiations. but she doesn't want to join at any cost. in the end, the outcome must be weighed, and this is deeply democratic, to be welcomed and supported by us. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. why would you do that? in the light of what i have said, the report contains positions which we cannot support. two of them are: if we accept - and our group does - that the accession process is open until the final evaluation of the results of the negotiations, then we cannot pretend now that the decision has already been taken. secondly, in paragraph 5 the report calls for a reduction in government influence on the banking sector. but here, in particular, iceland faced particular challenges that we should not ignore, but rather study and include.
member of the commission. − mr president, today’s discussion clearly demonstrates that iceland is well engaged in the accession process and that continued commitment on all sides should ensure that negotiations can proceed effectively. as i mentioned, this year will be a decisive year as we are reaching the stage where the real negotiations start. the commission will exert all efforts to allow the discussions to start as soon as possible on as many chapters as possible, including on the core chapters. in those discussions we are ready to take into account iceland’s specificities and expectations, while fully safeguarding the principles of the union and the requirements of the negotiating framework. i remain confident that, with joint and determined efforts, we will be able to find a win-win solution to overcome the challenges ahead. i would like to offer my appreciation to the members of this esteemed house for their continuing support for the ongoing accession process with iceland.
president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i want to make it very clear that the danish presidency, together with the commission, will do everything we can to bring the negotiations as far as possible. we are also working closely with the forthcoming cypriot presidency in this context. there is no doubt that iceland has come a long way. not only will iceland have much to offer the eu, but the eu will also have much to offer iceland, and that is why we must now use all our efforts together to open and close as many chapters as possible. we know that there are serious challenges ahead in the fisheries sector, but that is the task we must jointly seek to solve. the danish presidency will do everything in its power to support that process and we also welcome the negotiations between the commission and iceland.
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the enlargement report on bosnia and herzegovina [2011/2888 ((rsp) ].
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, our third debate this morning concerns bosnia and herzegovina. i am happy to be able to give you a more positive assessment of the situation than that given in last autumn’s progress report and reflected in the council’s conclusions of december 2011. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank doris pack for her work on this issue. important developments have taken place since then, and we have reason to be cautiously optimistic. we expect the newly established council of ministers to deliver on a range of issues – economic as well as political – in an effort to ensure the proper functioning of the state and to enhance the european integration agenda. let me briefly mention some of them. the most pressing need now is for agreement to be reached on a state budget for 2012 and for it to be adopted. institutions that have a role in eu integration should be properly financed, and specific policies also need to be funded. a global fiscal framework for 2012-2014 must also be developed to ensure sound fiscal management. crucially, eur 100 million of macro-financial assistance from the commission cannot be released until this framework and an agreement with the international monetary fund are in place. in its conclusions of last december, the council urged all political leaders in bosnia and herzegovina to live up to their responsibilities and to develop a shared vision of the future of their country. it has therefore been encouraging to see the different steps taken by the political actors since then in an effort to progress towards the eu. in particular, the recent adoption of the law on state aid and the law on the population census moved bosnia and herzegovina in the right direction. however, a very important step on the path to european integration remains. this concerns the need for bosnia and herzegovina to make credible efforts to bring its constitution into full compliance with the european convention on human rights in line with the sejdić-finci ruling. the bosnian authorities must address this urgently. improving and strengthening the efficient functioning of the state and its institutions is essential, including through the necessary constitutional changes. the european union will need to see credible effort made in this regard for bosnia and herzegovina’s stabilisation and association agreement to enter into force. finally, i want to take the opportunity to underline that establishing an effective coordination mechanism for dealing with eu matters is crucial. bosnia and herzegovina will need to be in a position to adopt, implement and enforce eu laws and rules in a more efficient manner than has been the case so far. from my intervention this morning, it is clear that much remains to be done in bosnia and herzegovina. certain developments have been encouraging, and that is very welcome. we will, however, continue to encourage and assist bosnia and herzegovina in delivering on the important political and economic reforms which are needed. i know that we can count on the support of this parliament in this regard. we in the danish presidency are also very much looking forward to our continued cooperation with the commission on these matters.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first of all thank doris pack for an excellent report on bosnia and herzegovina as the basis for discussion with all of you today. when speaking to this house about bosnia and herzegovina it is difficult to be overly positive: there is light but there is also shadow. as your resolution points out, in the past year as a whole, progress has been limited. i therefore want to join you in reminding all political actors in the country of the road map towards european union integration. in the face of last year’s political stalemate the european union has consistently maintained this road map and demonstrated its commitment in a variety of ways. firstly, the european union has prolonged the mandate of the eufor althea mission, with a new focus on capacity-building and training the armed forces of the country. this mission now confirms on a regular basis that there is no threat to the safe and secure environment. secondly, in light of improvements in law enforcement we have also been able to decide on terminating the european union police mission in june this year. however, follow-up will be ensured by a technical assistance mission on the ground. thirdly, citizens continue to enjoy travelling to the schengen area without visas, while implementation of the agreement is closely monitored. this demonstrates to the citizens that the european union perspective is real and tangible. fourthly the european union has enhanced its presence in sarajevo by appointing peter sørensen in a double-hatted capacity as head of delegation, and as european union special representative. the delegation has strengthened outreach and diplomatic activities. these efforts start to show results. the european union perspective has finally begun to dominate the political agenda. a series of joint initiatives have been launched in areas ranging from the structured dialogue on justice to the fiscal and budgetary framework and on infrastructure development in transport and energy. the recent developments show that this determination has been rewarded. after a year of stagnation, there is now a new positive momentum on the european union agenda in bosnia and herzegovina: a state aid law and a law on the population census were adopted and a new state-level government has taken up work in february. the new chair of the council of ministers, mr bevanda, whom i met last week, has put european union integration at the forefront of his government programme. the first indications are that bosnia and herzegovina wants to take great strides towards becoming a member of the european union. this in turn bodes well for the steps that we can undertake once the country fulfils all the necessary conditions. one of the many important points which you mention in your resolution is the necessary constitutional changes needed to be undertaken in order to enable the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement. the european union needs to see a ‘credible effort’ with regard to the implementation of the sejdić and finci ruling to bring the constitution into compliance with the european convention on human rights. we are in close consultation with your neighbours across the river, the council of europe, on what this entails exactly. decisive movement by bosnia and herzegovina here could unlock many new fruitful avenues for our cooperation. overall, 2012 will be a crucial year for the progress of bosnia and herzegovina on the path towards the european union. the commission wholeheartedly supports this endeavour and – as i understand – so does this house.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, in six weeks more has happened in bosnia and herzegovina than we expected in fifteen months. i congratulate all those who have taken this path. hopefully the political leaders in the country have realized that they are losing touch with europe and should not be lost in ethnically motivated quarrels all the time. my report covers 59 figures, but i can only deal with a few of them. the two previous speakers have said most of this. i would like to remind you that it is absolutely necessary to amend the constitution in order to implement the judgment of the european court of human rights in the sedjić and finci case. we need progress in the area of justice, especially in the structured dialogue. we need a state budget. we also need the necessary institutions to be set up for the european union to negotiate with the country. we must really feel the fight against corruption, we need the creation of an internal market in bosnia and herzegovina, which is in the interests of workers and also in the interests of investors. we need to strengthen the reform of the education system and we also need to end the two schools under one roof. we need an eu-friendly structure for veterinary and food supply, especially in view of the fact that the neighbouring country of croatia is being accepted into the eu. it is necessary to examine whether, in view of the positive developments, the office of the high representative may soon be closed in order to strengthen the self-responsibility of local politicians. we welcome the great commitment of the eu ambassador, who is really working with great commitment in this country. and we suggest that he be given more opportunities to do his work in the country. bosnia and herzegovina is the only country that does not allow citizens of kosovo to enter the country, and there are many bosnians who live in kosovo, have family in bosnia and herzegovina and would like to return, at least for a visit. i expect that to happen soon. i hope that this year at least the country will be able to end its saa status and perhaps apply for membership. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i do not know why you are looking so far into the future. first the country has to qualify for membership, then it will join, then it must meet the criteria and if it can meet them, it will also join the eurozone. we will welcome that, but it will not be tomorrow and not the day after, you know that as well as i do. you know the times. the country also has the compatible mark, so it is already very close to the euro. don't worry about it. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union will be bordering bosnia and herzegovina next year, and this year marks the 20th anniversary of the outbreak of war there and the liberation from belgrade. and we have to be clear that it is time to make real reforms. representatives inzko and sørensen are both doing an excellent job and both deserve our support. but the impulses, as doris pack rightly says, must come from the countryside. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european university, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, the establishment of a european research centre, and the establishment of a european research centre. we urgently need a state reform that will transform this country into a symmetrical federation of three peoples. all this may be difficult, but i do not think we can risk the disintegration of bosnia and herzegovina, because then the central bosnian croats, who nobody talks about, who live very isolated, would be the losers, the muslims would be the losers, and even those who are supposed to be the winners, namely the republika srpska and herzegovina, would lose. it would be a disaster for all of us.
thank you very much, mr. mayor. it is not my job as president to discuss the substance. as vice-president responsible for extremism, i would like to make it clear that any form of extremism is harmful to society.
question for the commissioner: mr brons, i just want to ask you if you know that yugoslavia was a communist dictatorship and the eu is a democratic community and if you know that it is possible to leave the eu. we look forward to the entry of bosnia and herzegovina. but when will you take the initiative to withdraw your country? then we'd know if your people were really for it or not.
ladies and gentlemen, last night a tragic traffic accident occurred in switzerland. a belgian bus with at least 52 passengers on board crashed in a tunnel. we know that 28 people - including 22 children - have lost their lives. it is not just our belgian colleagues and the belgian people who are deeply shocked. we have all seen the images of this disaster on television. on behalf of parliament, i would like to express our deepest sympathy to the families of the victims and to all those affected by this tragedy. i have already said this to the king of the belgians and to the belgian government, represented by mr di rupo, prime minister. any of us in this house -- whether we have children or whether we remember our relationship with our own parents -- can surely relate in these minutes to what it means to send your children on a vacation and have the coffins come back. and that's why i think our compassion is not just a phrase, but a genuine concern for the parents. i would ask you to take a moment of silence in memory of these victims and their families. (parliament adopted the resolution)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too was very pleased to be able to support this motion because i believe it is a correct answer to the problems currently facing the member states. we are all trying to revive the economy and the economy, and there are two main problems. the first is that countries cannot raise the co-financing, and the second is that pre-financing for many programmes simply does not work. we're in the process of eliminating that problem. the aim is to improve prefinancing by making the european union available appropriate funds. i think this could be an example for other funds, and i would ask that we then evaluate the results that this story brings to see if this mechanism could be applied to other programmes and funds.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have agreed to this report because the rapporteur, mr giovanni la via, has done a good job and has found the necessary compromise, and when we talk about strategic objectives, when we talk about de-bureaucratisation, when we talk about the fact that the bureaucracy - that is, the administration, the commission - must of course also spend less money, then this cannot be achieved by a quick shot, but we must really think about it. in the end, it also starts with passing laws and regulations that create less red tape and less control. i would like to mention one small defect. i would have liked to see the alde motion for a resolution to be followed, which calls for 2013 to be also devoted to economic recovery after financial consolidation. that is the only flaw, but overall i could agree with the report.
in writing. - the increase in import quotas for beef, which was decided today, has finally brought an end to a long trade dispute. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. i welcome this decision because it puts an end to a long conflict and at the same time ensures that no hormone-treated meat is allowed to enter europe. in return, the us and canada have also lifted their trade restrictions, so this is a good overall solution.
in writing. - i have approved the report. i do not see any problem with any possible reduction in the union's budgetary resources. the german taxpayer can easily understand this. for him, it will remain forever inexplicable how europe, and the eurozone in particular, handles its money. savings and budgeting are certainly not mistakes. let's surprise ourselves.
in writing. - education, not exploitation, must be the first priority for the future of the 215 million children who are regularly working instead of going to school. it is certainly problematic, but it is only through our education, our admonition, our commercial power and our consumer power that we can open up a piece of the future to these children. everyone should keep this in mind when enjoying cocoa products.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the osce election observers have stated that the russian presidential election was neither free nor fair. the local election observers were also able to prove that the official final result is not correct. although putin's campaign manager claims that it was the cleanest election russia has ever seen, this in turn leads to the fact that things have not gone my way in the previous elections. this is particularly true of the fraudulent elections to the duma. given the restrictive conditions and one-sided benefits, it cannot be ruled out that vladimir putin narrowly won the presidential election. but it was an election without alternative, a victory without opponents, because putin's challengers were not on the ballot paper, but were in the streets protesting his policies. it was expected that putin, with all the means, with all the power he has over the state apparatus and the media, will decide the election in the first round. that's how you win elections, but not the confidence in the future of the country. we must take note of this, but we should refrain from congratulating ourselves. the russian leadership has unfortunately missed the chance to overcome the existing divisions in society by means of honest elections. but russia needs these critical and creative citizens for its development. their exclusion would only lead to further emigration and capital flight. putin has been in power for 12 years. his promise of stability is practically stagnation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the economic and social modernisation promised so often has so far largely failed. the recent smears suggest that he is stuck in his old worldview, his kgb methods and the constraints of his autocratic system. that is why the opposition is held to high expectations. it must now make sure that the street protests do not become an empty ritual, a mere number-crunching. of course, the political change in russia must be wanted and supported by civil society itself, but we, the eu, can support this process by supporting the challenge of the protest movement, its main demand for early duma elections, on the basis of a new electoral law, the unhindered registration of parties and a fair and transparent election campaign. this should accelerate the structure and programming of the opposition and ultimately prove that there is a viable alternative to vladimir putin in russia.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the first draft resolution was very well balanced and was adopted with a calm tone, which is what we have to say in the aftermath of the presidential elections. the russian leadership, by signing the european convention on human rights, has made a commitment of its own which it is not fulfilling. this election was again not fair and not free from fraud. even three hundred million euros of government investment in surveillance technology has not solved what can only be solved politically. these are the sober facts that we as partners are not indifferent to. they also illustrate the contradictions of russian society, which is changing for all to see. we should welcome and support this, because emerging democracies live by the pursuit of development and change and also by protest. russia is back to normal. i therefore consider a number of conclusions which some of my colleagues in this parliament want to impose to be politically incorrect. there can be no compromise on the text. this house must finally decide which line it wants to follow. i took note from the alde meeting yesterday of russia after the elections that some of my colleagues believe that russia is no longer normal. was it ever normal? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. i would like to say a word about this: if you want to think in terms of escalatory spirals, you should now state how far you want to go, and not just say where you want the partnership to stop. for all the justified criticism, for all the differences, partnership for me means above all a balance in the common interest, and at least in my mother tongue, partnership and subordination are not synonymous. anyone who advocates this approach also communicates to me that he does not believe in the power of societies to change and that he has not taken note of the changes in russian society, which are also covered by the reports of the pace and odhr election observers, because here alternatives to putin-led democracy are being sought. all this is ultimately a matter for political discussion. i do not think that the commission is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i do not think it is consistent with the political dignity and self-concept of a house which stands for pluralism in europe for representatives of a section of the russian opposition here in strasbourg to be allowed to uncritically discredit the alternative presidential candidates who, without any clearing of the electoral fraud, received the votes of more than twenty-five million citizens in russia, simply as 'putin's pigs', that is to say, as 'putin's pigs'. contrary to what is known, the same people in this house have been talking for weeks about the possibility of bloodshed by putin and about possible revolutions. i can only say that this is not the clear majority in the house that is wrong in its criticism of the planned elections in russia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am convinced that the path to greater democracy in russia is unstoppable. but i am also convinced that our parliament, our political groups, the parties behind it and the foundations can and must do much more to help russia as good friends and advisers. since the duma elections, there have been a number of demonstrations and the involvement of civil society has increased rapidly. it is not just party politicians who are on the streets there, but a number of citizens who are more and more from the middle class, more and more well-educated people, and people who have furthered their education by traveling. we must intensify our dialogue with them, we must establish more and more contacts with them and ensure that there are more and more people-to-people contacts, also by dealing swiftly with the outstanding questions that still exist on the issue of visa freedom. but we should also intensify the parliamentary dialogue now. i know some people think less dialogue is the right answer to the election. i think that's wrong. we need more talks with colleagues from the state duma to discuss and convince. we can offer our experience. we should make our views clear so that our colleagues can learn from our experience and avoid the mistakes we have made and continue to make. the best way to achieve this is through clear discussions and by avoiding the kind of senior-teacher rhetoric that is sometimes seen in this house. the partnership for modernisation is a good instrument for this. if we all agree that economic and technological modernisation is not enough without modernising law, politics and society, russia, and therefore our common partnership, will not be able to succeed.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! when i hear speeches like the last one, i just have to see that there's obviously a mix-up in the values. if you think that there is no full democracy in britain, but that putin is the example of democracy, then i simply have to see how the right wing is developing a dioptrie that i can no longer understand. i think that we had fake elections in the duma elections, that we had to see that in the duma elections and in the presidential elections, opposition candidates who were critical had no chance to become real candidates because the regulation was such that they were not allowed to run. we are also seeing a new middle class that is taking its cue, that wants freedom, democracy and the rule of law, and in this way is building a modern state based on the rule of law, an economically sound state based on the middle class. i think we should support that. these people are for the future of russia in the interest of russia. now president medvedev has made an offer to the opposition parties outside parliament in a working group to move forward with reforms. we shall be watching closely to see whether, on the initiative of the next president, progressive solutions are agreed and implemented. that is the subject of this resolution. we want to see if the words are being kept, if the words are being translated into action, so that the road to reform is paved. this is also a chance for president putin to have a successful presidency if he allows these reforms. if this does not happen, russia will develop into an authoritarian, dictatorial regime. that is why we would like to see fair treatment of the opposition in the period up to president putin's inauguration. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
question for the commissioner: mr brok, you rightly said that the duma elections were, according to all the information we have, rigged and you expressed the hope that this working group, which president medvedev has convened to draw up a new electoral law and to facilitate the registration of parties, would bear fruit. will you support the amendment tomorrow, the main demand of the opposition, that on the basis of the results of the work of the medvedev group, new early elections to the duma be held?
answer to two questions on the blue card procedure. i do not know this statement, but if it has been made, i would like to declare it nonsense, because sometimes nonsense is spread over all parties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it is important to create the conditions for the rule of law, for parties to be able to register more easily, for this registration not to be manipulated by the authorities in such a way that signatures are not recognised or that a smaller number of signatures is sufficient for registration. freedom of the media is necessary for opposition parties to have a fair chance of standing in an election campaign. these are some of the conditions necessary for further democratic development in russia, and i believe that will then lead to the appropriate conclusions. we should take one step at a time, not prevent the first step by emphasizing the third step.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu's interest in central asia has been growing for some time. kazakhstan is our most important partner in the region, both politically and economically. after the start of negotiations on an enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement, which i very much welcome, after the regrettable events in the shannon region and the parliamentary elections, kazakhstan is now in our special focus. i strongly support a close and open dialogue with kazakhstan to intensify our relations. it is crucial that we recognise kazakhstan's positive developments in the areas of democratisation, human rights and the rule of law, even if they are small steps from our western perspective and we rightly expect further progress. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. in the course of our discussions with non-governmental organisations and representatives of kazakh civil society, we were able to gain a comprehensive picture of the situation. the constructive dialogue between government and non-government representatives at the same table with us parliamentarians in parliament was the first of its kind. the resolution should support this positive development. from this point of view, it would have been useful for me to have had a delay to see what the investigations would reveal, so that we would have clearer conditions for our position, which we do not have at present. that is the position of the epp, and that is my position too!
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. the polish aphorist stanislaw jerzy lec urges us to think before we think, and that is a recommendation which would also do us good in this parliament at times. a few weeks after the resolution on the central asian strategy adopted in this house, which gave the central asian states censorship, the reaction is now to strike events in shannon, kazakhstan, without waiting for the results of the ongoing investigations, which are being carried out with international participation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. even vladimir koslov, the leader of the unregistered opposition party alga, said: "it was a group of other people, the riots are not in the interest of the strikers, because this only provides the reason to take violent action against them". central asia expert arkady dubnow also said: it is possible that parts of the kazakh opposition living abroad are also involved. on the other hand, maintaining tensions in the kazakh capital of astana may well be a good idea for someone. after all, the power elites of kazakhstan are already fighting over the succession of president nursultan nazarbayev. we have had the opportunity to speak to the kazakh opposition in the presence of the kazakh ambassador here in parliament. the un special envoy today said he was impressed by the kazakh government's attention to the events in shanaosen and that it was necessary to uncover the true causes of the unrest. we should take the kazakh authorities at their word and measure them by their actions, but not come to reflex judgments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the brutal violence of boko haram has already been mentioned by some colleagues. they are appalling and their brutality is constantly in the news. i would like to remind you that there have been extreme acts of violence in nigeria in the past. in july 2009, more than 700 people were killed, in january 2010 in plateau state more than 300 people were killed in religious and ethnic violence and more than 10,000 people were displaced. the government set up commissions of inquiry, which investigated and produced a report. but neither in 2009 nor in 2010, and even before 2008, were these investigative reports published and those responsible named. these are serious failures, and that is why i would like to stress the call in our resolution for independent investigations into these human rights violations and for the fair prosecution of the perpetrators, on all sides of the conflict. i would advise against it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think we have to look at two things together. the first is the situation in nigeria, a country which is dealing with the acp, a country with which we have good relations. commissioner, you know better than i do how aid is provided here and that we must take care that the government has a rich country, because of the resources it has, which, as my colleague mr šťastný has said, should also be used to improve social conditions. secondly, we have to see that boko haram is arguing and acting in a way that is also practiced by other islamic groups or states in the persecution of christians. seventy-five percent of all persecution of people on account of religious beliefs is now the persecution of christians. it must be noted that the entire islamic world - including the representatives of the islamic faith, although they have no central institutions - is called upon to finally take action against such acts of violence and to clearly distance themselves from them. i think it's the only way. we have concerns in syria, we have concerns in egypt and in similar areas, and we know the results from iraq, for example. and i think that for that reason it is an important matter that the foreign office wants to appoint a special representative for human rights, and that in particular the departments dealing with the persecution of christians should be represented. this is not a characteristic unique to christians, but we must see that this applies to all religious beliefs, which must be allowed and not persecuted, but we should also be able to say clearly, as a europe based on christianity, that christians must not be persecuted.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. belarus is in a state of emergency. since the fraudulent re-election of president lukashenko, the dictator has used brutal harshness and terror against the opposition. dozens of people whose only crime was to demand democracy and participation were sentenced to long prison terms, and confessions were extracted by torture. the eu has therefore imposed entry bans on the scheme's participants and ordered the freezing of their foreign accounts. a strategy that puts pressure on the system on the one hand and supports civil society on the other. but we should look at the extent to which these measures are actually working and why the belarusian minister of the interior, for example, can travel to lyon for the interpol conference and the sons of the dictator can explore the world as members of the national olympic committee without any hindrance. the banking system is also questionable, as it is a matter for the individual eu countries. since most companies in belarus are state-owned, the eu has fatally become the biggest supporter of the lukashenko system, with a trade surplus of $6 billion last year, and is keeping it alive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the virus. economic sanctions against selected companies and intermediaries would have this effect, because the export of fertilisers, steel and petroleum products is 100% dependent on the west. i do not, however, support a boycott or a postponement of the ice hockey world cup. this symbolic gesture may satisfy some, but it hits the wrong people and would rather serve the dictator's propaganda. we have had this experience with the olympic boycott in moscow and with the beijing boycott. if we were to apply the sporting boycott method consistently, we would also have to ban the european football championship in ukraine.
i have to say, madam president, in terms of its primary purpose, the eu mission navfor-atalanta has been a success so far. the main purpose is to protect the world food programme supply ships that deliver food to somalia. so far, some 674,000 tonnes have been delivered. not a single ton of it was lost. the main objective has thus been achieved. but there are, of course, other purposes that have been mentioned. in this context, i think it is right that we, as the european union, should be there with this mission. the fact is that in this context the partners working with the eu - russia, china, india - are more likely to work with the eu than with nato. this view is not to be shared and we certainly do not share it, but it is a reality. and we should also use this added value, this added value of the eu. i also support the comprehensive approach that the commissioner has mentioned. we have a number of measures on land, some of them very creative. we support projects in places where piracy does not occur, for example in somaliland, in the northwestern part of the country. the commissioner was there. i think it's good that we are being pragmatic and that we are stabilizing the areas that are against piracy. i wish we were able to learn more about the money flows. they've contacted europol and interpol. can you show us any successes so that we can say we have recovered some of that money, so that we can find out how the pirates are financed there?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. climate action requires immediate action, but also a long-term strategy if we are to achieve the goal of stabilizing the earth's atmosphere at 2 degrees celsius. the socialist group supports your roadmap 2050. it is a very important building block for planning certainty and clarity about where the journey is going. all the players, above all the economy, are waiting for this certainty and clarity of planning. the council of environment ministers was blocked by one country on friday and proved incapable of taking action. i ask the commission: what is your strategy for getting poland out of this psychological and political isolation? we need poland! poland is an important country. it is important to note that poland also has enormous opportunities to modernise its economy and use new technologies in its climate strategy. perhaps we need to make clearer what the eu can do and what burden-sharing there is in the eu - this solidarity among the 27 countries, all of whom have a goal, but perhaps different ways of reaching it. commissioner, you should have an answer to that. if we want to reduce co2 by 80 to 95 percent, we need all sectors, not just industry, but of course transport and agriculture. i hope that the proposals put forward here will not water down our report. we also need to have a clear language for climate neutrality in the transport sector and for substantial efforts in the agricultural sector. we encourage you to include shipping in the emissions trading system, alongside aviation. you should show leadership and not give in. the emissions trading system is not working. you have to make a correction. we have explained in the report how this can be done. ultimately, i think this is a new industrial revolution. it is about a competitive european economy, and climate protection is a contribution to europe's competitiveness in the 21st century.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not today's vote on the roadmap for moving to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 is of key importance. the lack of ambition in european climate change policy is jeopardising a sustainable development path for the european economy. dirty technologies, such as nuclear power and ccs, are preventing the energy transition. the eu emissions trading scheme has so far failed as a climate change instrument and undermines european climate change policy. it shows that market-based instruments are not suitable for combating climate change. long-term climate protection means binding targets for renewable energy and for the reduction of greenhouse gases. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. ambitious climate action with a long-term target of 95% greenhouse gas reductions by 2050 compared to 1990 is encouraging innovation and creating new jobs in renewable technologies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. on the road to renewable energy, we will have to make a choice. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it in the future. we're doing both right now. the davies report also calls for further tightening of environmental legislation while at the same time restricting emission rights. i am critical of this double strategy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not undermined by the introduction of new technologies. i am surprised that mr davies, as a liberal, is ignoring these links. if it's him and the liberals, the farms will have to pay double. once for additional environmental requirements: if co2 emissions then decrease, the allowances are simply taken off the market and thus increased in price. this policy is overwhelming european industry. we are helping to protect the environment by displacing the factories, the industry. it cannot be, and that is why the epp will not support the unilateral tightening of the emissions trading system. what we need is more flexibility and national leeway in european environmental legislation, such as the energy efficiency directive. we could then also optimise the european incentive framework, for example by extending the ets to buildings and other sectors of the economy. the important thing is that we reach our savings goals in the end. i believe that we can do this best with a reliable framework. with the economy, not against it!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. chris davies knows that i am a fundamental critic of this plan that we are about to adopt. political plans and with very long-term objectives have always existed. these plans always had one thing in common: they were overtaken by reality. because it's just plain silly to plan for the world of 2050 today. that's an assumption of knowledge. in the meantime, many things will happen to us that we do not have on the agenda today, that we cannot know or predict. the objectives we set ourselves here are, in the final analysis, arbitrary. here we're going to be contrasting annual figures with percentages, which actually have only one constant, which is that they end up with a zero. the climate impact of these is not really objectively justified. we could simply subtract five years from the annual figures and add five percent to the percentages. it would be just as random, but a little more ambitious. why don't we do that? i look forward to -- who among you is still alive in 2050 -- that we might meet as old ladies and gentlemen and then discuss the reality of this plan at an evening event. i have a feeling this is going to be a pretty entertaining event. it is also high time that we realised that european climate policy has failed globally. our pioneering role is not accepted, no one accepts our standards. i am reminded of the inclusion of airlines in the emissions trading scheme. we should be taking a much more measured approach here. we will only succeed in climate policy if the rest of the world does. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are discussing today the transition to a low-carbon economy. many voices have been raised here today that we should continue as we have been. the report by chris davies makes a very important point: if we continue as we are, it will cost us 5% of gdp in the future. 5% of gdp if we continue as we are going! that is why what is in the report is a start. of course, we're only responsible for 12 percent of the emissions! but if one doesn't start, no one will. there will be a struggle for resources, and the less we emit in the future, the less we will consume in terms of raw materials. it also has a radical economic effect if we don't change the taxation, if we don't invest in renewable energy, if we don't make transport less emissive. this is where we started. it's a bumpy road, even internationally, and that's why we need more climate diplomacy at this point. the european external action service is also needed to do more on climate diplomacy. we have decided to include air transport in the emissions trading system. there are international concerns at the moment - i will be very diplomatic. but we're on the right track. and when the americans, the russians and the indians start a similar system, of course we are ready to cooperate with them, of course we will extend our hand. but someone has to make the first move. we did that. it will also make economic sense that we started early. this report is good, and everyone in this room today will have a proper responsibility to make this report a success. we cannot afford to fail today - as we did with the previous report, the eickhout report. that would be a completely destructive signal to the european public and to the world public. i therefore appeal to all colleagues to step back a little from their positions if this report is to be a success today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a competitive, low-carbon economy by 2050 is the stated goal that we all wholeheartedly agree on. we have already set milestones on the way to this goal. there is no reason at all to change this timetable today. this is particularly true of the emissions trading system, which is still in its infancy. we all know how dangerous it is to increase the speed of the aircraft or even to change the navigation when it takes off. we must also recognize and include in this report the measures already in place. we're talking to the whole economy. that is right and necessary. there is absolutely no reason to point the finger at agriculture in this report in particular, as in paragraph 2. everyone has to do their part to reduce co2. agriculture is already a constant focus of european environmental policies. we are in the middle of discussions on the new european agricultural policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the present cap already sets strict requirements for healthy and sustainable production in europe's agriculture. this applies to food as much as to the production of biomass and energy. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not based on the principle of subsidiarity. i ask you to accept that. the proposals of my group also focus on this. i ask you to agree to this. only if we approach each other can we reach a workable compromise and a good result.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to speak about the agreement on the energy efficiency directive. all the political groups support a text which will enable us to save 20% of our energy by 2020. this is also the basis for meeting ambitious climate targets. this text also addresses the ets across the political groups. we want a cautious intervention in the ets, not hasty and not uncontrolled. but the message from parliament is clear: action is needed! the commission has to come up with something. this is also stated in the compromise the epp negotiated with chris davies. i would like to refer to paragraph 94 of the report. unlike the subject as a whole, this formulation of air transport in the davies report is not controversial. there are no amendments to this and i expect it to be adopted. we support the commission here. we call on the commission to implement the legislation on air transport. we should not be cowering because of threats from third countries. this would have devastating effects on other policy areas, such as financial markets and trade. we are right, the ecj has confirmed that right. there's no court in the world that can say we're wrong. if we bow now, the consequences will be devastating. but, commissioner, we want the legislation to be fully implemented! it also says that we must make every effort to negotiate with third countries and that european aviation must not be discriminated against. we want an international solution. and take note of this signal: negotiate yes, but do not squat!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the increasingly violent conflicts over water make the gravity of the situation clear. without water, there is no life. still, 900 million people lack access to clean drinking water, and 2.6 billion people lack adequate sanitation. access to clean water is a fundamental right. this is a matter of responsibility for all. the guiding principle of our water policy is the precautionary and polluter-pays principle. often simple measures are enough to avoid water waste and pollution. the transfer of technology for innovation in water supply and water treatment needs to be promoted. over 90% of the world's industrial and domestic wastewater is discharged into waterways without any explanation. however, domestic waste water can also be considered as a resource. for example, phosphates can be recycled and reused in a resource-efficient manner. clean water and sanitation are key to development. the world water conference in marseille must take us one step further.
member of the commission. − mr president, there are three points here. first, ms rivasi was referring to a request to privatise water services. i would like to clarify that the commission has not made any such request. eu water law is neutral, as it concerns the legal regime of the providers of such services, and this choice is left to member states. mr stadler was referring to problems with implementation of the water framework directive. i think this is a very relevant issue. i also know that very recently the heads of state had a very systematic discussion on the need for us in europe to be much better at implementing and, when the blueprint that i referred to at the beginning comes out, there will also be some ideas on how to improve implementation of environmental legislation in europe. finally, mr pargneaux said it was strange that we all know that water is going to be an increasing problem but is really not addressed in the cap. one could argue that it will be indirectly addressed in pillar 2, but i think that mr pargneaux had a good point, which i am sure parliament will discuss with the relevant commissioners. i can assure you that the point has been taken and will be taken back to mr potočnik, as will the other points that we have heard today.
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission: schmallenberg virus by patrick le hyaric, takis hadjigeorgiou, joão ferreira and nikolaos chountis, on behalf of the gue/ngl group (o-000045/2012 - b7-0103/2012), the oral question to the commission: schmallenberg disease by james nicholson and ashley fox, on behalf of the ecr group, albert deß and esther de lange, on behalf of the ppe group (o-000047/2012 - b7-0104/2012) and the oral question to the commission: schmallenberg disease by george lyon and nathalie griesbeck, on behalf of the alde group (o-000057/2012 - b7-0105/2012).
a writer. the commission has already done so. thank you for the debate today on the animal disease caused by the so-called schmallenberg virus. scientists say that the virus bears a strong resemblance to the akabane virus, which has been known for a long time in animals from africa to japan and australia. akabane virus is not dangerous to humans, so it can be assumed that schmallenberg virus is not dangerous to humans either. in animals, however, the virus is a very real threat and can cause enormous economic damage. commissioner, everything must be done to contain this disease and possibly eradicate it. in order to take effective action, there is an urgent need for a reporting obligation throughout the european union, as has already been agreed with the federal states in germany. the virus is transmitted, as we have just said, by mosquitoes, and it is not easy to protect animals from mosquitoes. effective protection is only possible with a vaccine. i would like to ask the commissioner, on behalf of the epp group, to do everything possible to promote the development of a vaccine to that end, so that it can be available as soon as possible. it is also the commission's task to ensure that this data collection is carried out really quickly, so that the relevant data are available and the necessary measures are taken. it is also the commission's task, as has already been requested, to reinstate the trade restrictions imposed by russia on 20 march. i have reports that in addition to russia, ukraine, egypt, algeria, mexico and the united states have already imposed initial trade restrictions. the sooner action is taken now, the sooner the disease can be contained and eventually eliminated.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. last year a new viral disease was discovered in sheep and cattle, causing deformities and deaths in lambs and calves. it is believed to be transmitted by mosquitoes and appears to have been introduced by them. the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter is a major factor in the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we all agree that we need a scientifically sound monitoring system for new diseases in order to decide on a scientific basis whether or not they are new. but this requires time, and time is precisely what the people on the ground lack. they need help. however, mutual funds such as an animal disease fund require reporting in order to provide financial assistance. when will the commission finally develop a standard strategy for new diseases, clearly defining when new diseases will be able to be monitored, controlled and assisted? we're running out of time. the disease is still spreading. non-european trading partners react by halting exports, so the damage is also spread to non-infected farms. sperm and livestock trade is restricted, although mosquitoes are the vectors and direct infection is unlikely. how will the commission deal with export restraints? introduced diseases will increase due to climate change and the commercial and travel-oriented society. we need a sensible approach to mitigate the consequences. we need answers for those affected, answers that help them and, by extension, all of us.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to thank the commissioner for the opportunity to discuss this important subject with us today. in my country, the federal republic of germany, there are currently 900 farms affected by the schmallenberg virus and it is spreading. of course, there is also a fear in the public debate, first in the field of agriculture - loss of income to total loss - but also in the field of public health. because there is no 100% chance that this virus will not infect humans. the fsa has already announced that it will continue to work closely with the european centre for prevention and control to monitor the public health impact. i think that's very important. there is a monitoring procedure, and the fsa has simulated it once. we have just heard that eight member states have been affected by this disease so far, and we fear that in spring, summer, by flies, etc., this disease will spread further. various scenarios have been suggested. can the commission state in detail what action it is taking to combat the trends identified in the simulation? or are you still in the analysis stage? that is a very important point. it's also important for the public to see that this disease is being contained. i know this is something new and there is no specific means to fight this disease definitively. but what measures is the commission planning to take or has it already taken to prevent it from becoming a plague affecting all 27 member states? so far there have been eight, and we do not want the disease to spread to the 27 member states.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not yes, the figures from yesterday speak for themselves. 944 establishments in germany and a total of eight eu countries are affected. and the european commission is still largely inactive, declaring the disease to be a problem of individual member states. if there is no compulsory reporting of this disease in europe soon, the farmers will be left alone because they will not receive compensation. and if the commission does not act consistently, more countries will also impose an import ban. i therefore find it incomprehensible why the commission still seems to me to be playing down the problem. we need this european notification, but we also need a pooling of scientific resources within the european union to combat this disease and to develop vaccines, and we need to help the sheep farmers. they're extremely affected for the second time since the bluetongue. their existence is in danger, and if we do not compensate them now, in a few years we will have no sheep farms in many regions. i would like to say one more thing: we have to deal with these new diseases. they will get through climate change, and that's why we have to do something about climate change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i very much welcome the fact that we are raising awareness today through this oral question of the animal disease caused by the schmallenberg virus and thereby showing that we take this matter seriously. many farmers are desperate for it. in germany alone, as you have heard, 944 farms are affected by the schmallenberg virus. for these, there are big problems. in my home region of schleswig-holstein, there are many sheep farmers due to the proximity of the coast and the protection of the dikes. and many sheep are infected with this virus. at a time when a large number of lambs are being born, this virus is an existential threat to many farms. the number continues to grow. in schleswig-holstein, sheep farmers suffer from this virus as do cattle farmers. in the last week alone, the number of farms in my region with animals infected with the virus has risen from 106 in the previous week to 116. although the virus poses no danger to humans, the malformations and stillbirths cause great financial loss to the farms. i also want to draw attention to the plight of animals. i think she's unbearable too. we need a vaccine fast. i would like to know how far research has progressed in this area and whether the commission is supporting the member states in their search for a vaccine. perhaps we should also consider whether there is a way to help businesses that have suffered severe financial losses from the virus in other ways. what possibilities does the commission have here and what measures have already been taken? please act quickly and keep us informed of the situation. the farmers are counting on you, but so are we!
the commission has already done so. it is certainly true that we are discussing the schmallenberg virus in parliament today. i would ask that we refrain from panic and excessive actionism. what happened? what happened? we have, as so often, a schmallenberg virus that has only been found in a few animals, certainly a larger number, but the friedrich-loeffler-institut has also found that the animals build up immunity automatically when they come into contact with the pathogen. i would also like to remind you that we talked about swine flu and avian flu years ago, that we took substantial action here and then had to defend ourselves against the accusations of the green members within the committee, whether this was not all exaggerated. so a little more thought in the actions is certainly necessary. i think we should check, and the recording of the disease is certainly something that should be done throughout europe, i think it is necessary. i think we must also examine further the extent to which action is necessary here. but to call for compensation now, i think it's a bit too far-reaching. we have opportunities in the countries. for example, in germany and the netherlands, the animal disease fund, where compensation can be obtained. i would perhaps ask the commission to support the setting up of such a fund in the other countries, then we could solve this much more quickly regionally and not through giant programmes in europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also think it is important that we discuss this issue in the european parliament today, and as always, of course, we have at least three aspects of the problem. the first is the aid to the farmers concerned, which is clearly necessary, because as my colleagues have just said, sheep farming, with its very low profitability, which is extremely important for the landscape in some regions, is of course hit hardest. but i would ask you once again to respect the principle of subsidiarity and to resolve the issues that can be resolved locally, and to do so effectively. i'm much more concerned about the indirect failures. the second point is consumer safety. we need to have a strong consumer education system, because at the meat counter people make decisions based on their gut rather than on scientific knowledge. so, is this virus dangerous to humans or not? the third point is to avoid disproportionate international trade sanctions, and in this connection i simply ask once again for research to be coordinated at european level for analysis and information.
member of the commission. − mr president, first, in reply to mr häusling, the commission is not disregarding the importance of this. ms girling mentioned a number of things that the commission could do such as deal with the trade aspect, compile data and a lot of other things. i think i mentioned all of them as part of what we are actually doing in my first response. i would like to say one thing to ms de lange and others who have been concerned about the 10 countries that have threatened trade implications because of this. as i said, the commission is in dialogue with those 10 countries. to give one example, commissioner dalli has been communicating with the russian authorities, and the commission currently has a delegation in moscow dealing with exactly this. so everyone is taking this seriously. to finish: when new diseases and risks like this come up, what can we do? we can coordinate, exchange data and use our scientific entities and bodies to provide as much knowledge as we can get. one of the places where you can find an update of some of these things is in this guidance document on the web. it can be updated easily when new information is available. it has been agreed with the farmers’ organisations and with the member states that this guidance document will be available on the web, so there you will have the updated information on where we are on this.
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended for a short time)
written declaration no 49 of 2011 setting an eight-hour limit for the transport of animals for slaughter in the european union, submitted by mr jørgensen, mr de lange, mr poc, mr schlyter and mr zanoni, received the signatures of the majority of the members of parliament. it is therefore forwarded to the addressees indicated in accordance with article 123 of the rules of procedure and published in the minutes as the text adopted at this meeting, with the names of the signatories.
written declaration no 50 of 2011 on the introduction of the 'chess in schools' programme in the education systems of the european union, submitted by members binev, attard-montalto, deva, mauro and takkula, received the signatures of the majority of members of parliament. it is therefore forwarded to the addressees indicated in accordance with article 123 of the rules of procedure and published in the minutes as the text adopted at this meeting, with the names of the signatories.
mr lothar bisky has resigned as chairman of the gue group and yesterday the gue group elected a successor. first of all, mr bisky, on behalf of the whole house, i would like to thank you very much for your work as chairman of the gue group, and for your truly outstanding human and collegial performance. i think you have been a very valuable colleague to us in every way as chairman of the group of the european people's party. we are glad that you are staying in parliament, but on behalf of the whole house we thank you for your cooperation. (applause from the centre) the same applies to mrs zimmer. mrs zimmer has been elected the new chairman of the gue group. and to that, mrs zimmer, our warmest congratulations. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm speaking against the motion. this is a very surprising statement from the ppe group. we have considered the proposal very carefully in the environment committee. we have good input from the committee on industry and the committee on agriculture, and we discussed this in detail this morning. the commission, like industry, needs to know what is happening in the field of climate change. i would urge that we vote today.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. reducing greenhouse gas emissions is an important objective of climate protection, but i think it is wrong to concentrate solely on one indicator, namely the reduction of co2 emissions. it just creates a false stimulus. it is also, and above all, a question of conserving and sparing our natural resources. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of developing a new approach to the problem of carbon dioxide emissions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i have been able to abstain on the motion as a whole.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr wilders, his party and his website are disgusting right-wing extremists, and the dutch government tolerates them. and it really bothers me how you two measure things here. the hungarian government is fighting the right-wing extremists and is constantly being put in the wrong corner, even though it is taking vigorous action here. the dutch government is supported by such forces, and it was therefore high time that we also made a clear statement here. i would like to disagree with mrs nicolai on one point. the christian democrats in our group have clearly spoken out against this website, for which i am grateful, but i think it is necessary that this should also be done by the dutch government as a whole, which is unfortunately falling more and more into a eurosceptic course - also as a consequence of this tolerance situation. i hope that the netherlands will soon be back to being a country that can be proud of being the founding country of the eu.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr putin is a thoroughly anti-democratic man, and that is why this resolution could have been much more forceful. i would like to make the following points for the future, which are important. firstly, immediate and complete freedom of demonstration for the opposition; secondly, the release of all opposition members who are still in prison; thirdly, the establishment of a free and independent media, because only then can genuinely free elections take place; fourthly, the establishment of a new registration procedure for genuinely democratic parties and the corresponding plurality of parties, and on the basis of this a repeat of last year's duma elections. only then can an alternative to putin's tyranny be created in russia, a democratic system.
mr president, in the eighth largest country in the world, with a population of 150 million, christians are being brutally persecuted by an extremist group, as the attack on the catholic church and its people has now proved. and if we as the european union do not make it clear that we are the protecting power of christians in the world, this will become more and more widespread. we are for religious freedom in general, we are for interreligious dialogue on a fair basis. but we also say quite clearly, if we do not take care of the christians, who will? i am grateful that the european parliament has clearly taken this course and i would like to see even clearer words and action from lady ashton in this direction.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i had the opportunity last week in rome to study the intensive preparations made by the fao and the pontifical council for justice and peace and others for this world water forum. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. water is not only a source of life, it can also be a source of death, triggering wars or murderous conflicts when it is scarce. and so it is urgent that we ensure that - as mrs băsescu has said - a proper water management is introduced. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up. this is really a public good belonging to all mankind. that is why i voted for the amendment. we must be careful that water does not become a speculative or blackmailing object.
in writing. − the common commercial policy of the european union must take into account the interests of workers in all member states, who are a vital contributor to the prosperity and well-being of europeans. in this context, the recent developments at the wto level are very welcome for all europeans, india, china and the usa and all of south america, and we can only cooperate in partnership in this one world if we find open markets. the future proposal to implement the government procurement agreement must therefore also be geared to the objective of open markets, based on the principle of autonomy.
in writing. − water is the basis of all life on earth and its importance will continue to grow in the future. i am therefore pleased that we are bringing this important issue to the attention of the public at the same time as the world water forum in france. experts predict that future wars will not be fought over oil or land, but over precious water. so to ensure peace in the future, we must learn to use water wisely and sparingly. water is a common property and should be available to all people. that is why it is our duty to treat it as gently as possible.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, the case of solomon w. is emblematic of the tragic experiences of hundreds of sub-saharan refugees in the sinai region. in seeking a better life, many of these vulnerable persons are kidnapped by traffickers in human beings when crossing clandestinely the egyptian border or being smuggled directly from neighbouring countries. the egyptian authorities are facing enormous challenges to ensure the security of their borders as well as of the whole sinai region. as a matter of fact, the sinai is at risk of becoming a safe haven for criminal gangs and terrorist movements; the gas pipeline which crosses sinai towards israel and jordan has also recently been bombed for the 13th time since the ousting of president mubarak a year ago. high representative ashton has followed very closely the issue of the sinai refugees through the delegation in cairo and she has expressed our concerns on numerous occasions to the egyptian ministry of foreign affairs and to the ministry of the interior. very recently, on 14 march, the eu special representative for the horn of africa, mr alexander rondos, raised the issue of solomon w. and of the sinai refugees during his meeting with foreign minister amr in cairo. the egyptian side took good note and promised to follow up on the matter. as you have understood, progress so far has been very limited. we believe that the best way to improve the security of this volatile and strategic region would be through a thorough reform of the security sector, allowing the egyptian authorities to fight traffickers and to control the borders in a more efficient manner while fulfilling their international human rights commitments. the eu stands ready to support egypt in this endeavour, but our egyptian partners have been rather slow to engage on these sensitive matters for the time being. we will continue to urge the egyptian authorities to take the appropriate measures in order to address the problem of human trafficking in the sinai and to ensure that the human rights of migrants and refugees are respected. we have repeatedly invited egypt to improve the quality of the assistance and protection offered to asylum seekers and refugees residing on, or transiting through, its territory. we have also pressed the egyptian authorities to ensure that the principle of non-refoulement is observed for all migrants in need of help. the unhcr should be given full possibility to implement its mandate on the entire territory of egypt, including the sinai region and we hope that with the end of the post-mubarak transitional phase and the appointment of a democratically-elected government, the security and human rights issues in the sinai region will receive greater attention from the new egyptian leadership.
i have to say, madam president, there are huge mountains of boxes out there, and there's a lot of hammering, shouting, mining. i've been in this house for 18 years, and i've never seen such a mess, if i may say so. we act like we're already gone while we're working here. thursday is a full day, not just the morning, but the evening, and i ask that the demolition work be postponed until the end of the sitting. we have guests here, and it looks really bad, like a bad inn, where you put the chairs on the table and turn off the lights while the guests are still eating.
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. our group did not think that this was the most urgent thing to do. the more than 200 rockets fired by the palestinians over israel in recent days would have been a much more pressing issue, as would the problems in many other parts of the world. but we have nevertheless concentrated on this specific issue in this resolution, which was sensible and right, because we believe that we want a close partnership with israel, as mrs de keyser said. i am also in favour of a swift and successful conclusion of an agreement. we also expressly commit ourselves in the resolution to the two-state solution and to the peace-keeping function of this two-state solution. but we also make it clear that what preceded the closure of the stations must be clarified. there are two different versions that contradict each other. we have mentioned them in the resolution, but we want this question to be raised and clarified in a structured dialogue with israel. we are asking the commission and the israeli government to do so, precisely because, as mrs de keyser said, israel is an important partner for us.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. as a member of both the palestinian and israeli delegations, i welcome the fact that parliament is commenting on these unacceptable israeli raids on two television stations in ramallah. ramallah, i would remind you again, is in area a of the west bank, that is to say, in the small area which the palestinians themselves are allowed to administer. that is to say, there is no legal basis in any agreement for such an action, and even less so without the israeli authorities' notification. apart from the fact that this action was directed against freedom of expression and freedom of information, we are dealing here with the illegal destruction of palestinian property by the israeli occupying power, which is defended by israel as a stereotype of a security necessity, but which does not make it any less illegal under international law: the destruction of drinking water wells and energy sources, the almost weekly destruction of agricultural land and olive trees, and not to mention the ongoing demolition of hundreds of palestinian homes, including in jerusalem. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. among other things, we recently read in the "spiegel" that solar plants financed with german tax money are being demolished again.
i have to say, madam president, i have known bahrain for over 30 years and i just want to say that this country has been on the right track and it can get back on the right track. and that despite his exposed position in the lead-up to iran, that must not be forgotten. of course there are abuses by the ruling house and the security apparatus and the saudis who are hiding behind it and would like to integrate bahrain into their state. that's another thing to remember. on the other hand, there is systematic shiite agitation, driven by iran and by extremist leaders in their own country. so both are very dangerous, and our job is not to be one-sided here, but to mediate and help to create a functioning constitutional monarchy with a reasonable balance between shiite and sunni, because otherwise there will be terrible bloodshed. it has already been said that the so-called arab spring is at the moment in most countries a development towards extremism, and we must prevent the legitimate criticism of the attacks in bahrain from being misused by extremists.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i welcome the fact that this parliament has taken up the human rights violations in bahrain. the list maintained by the bahrain center for human rights shows that the number of deaths since 14 february 2011 is much higher than the number stated in the resolution. we'll put you there at sixty-six. the debate is all the more important because a large number of member states have been particularly silent and indecisive about the events in bahrain when they should have been vocal in the end. if you compare the reaction in the member states when the very first deaths in syria took place, the reaction was quite different. and that is the point, in the end, that i hope that at least in this european parliament the standards are the same, no matter what country it is. it is not possible to measure things differently here just because there is an american naval base in bahrain and not a russian one, because american and not russian weapons are being supplied there and because our trade relations are certainly better than with syria. in this respect, the same standards must be observed in bahrain and in all the countries of the arab world when it comes to respect for human rights.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the eu is paying great attention to the situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in bahrain, especially since the major resurgence of unrest in that country, which started in february last year. in recent months we have unfortunately witnessed arbitrary arrests, ill-treatment and sometimes even torture of detainees, trials carried out without the appropriate guarantees, and restrictions of fundamental freedoms. respect for human rights standards still needs to be improved and the national reconciliation process still has to be put on a more solid footing. the eu’s response to this worrying situation has been consistent. high representative catherine ashton issued last year no less than eight statements on bahrain calling for dialogue, respect for human rights and avoidance of violence. she raised this matter several times with the bahraini foreign minister and she met with the king himself in april last year. the foreign affairs council reiterated the same messages in its conclusions in march, april and may. the eeas and the eu delegation in riyadh, which is accredited to bahrain, are engaged in regular visits and dialogue with the bahraini authorities. the eu welcomes the decision taken by the king in june 2011 to set up an independent commission of inquiry to shed full light on the human rights violations during the unrest. the bahraini government is now implementing the recommendations contained in the report that the commission published in november. the eu has expressed its willingness to provide concrete support to the bahraini government in this challenging task, through the provision of assistance and expertise. it will be very important to implement these recommendations fully and rapidly. it also remains essential that a serious dialogue be opened between the authorities and the opposition. the opposition groups have to play their part in making this possible, because in the absence of such a dialogue genuine and lasting national reconciliation will not take place. finally, it is our hope that the sentences given by the so-called ‘national safety courts’, notably to the group of some 20 medical staff and to several human rights defenders, will be revoked. all those individuals must be given a fresh trial before civilian courts with all the guarantees arising from bahrain’s domestic legislation and from the relevant international conventions.
i have to say, madam president, i have just learned that the conference of presidents has decided by a majority against our group to take urgent matters off the agenda for the next plenary session, which will begin on tuesday and run until friday because of the orthodox easter celebrations. i do not think that is right, because there will certainly be many important issues to be discussed in the four weeks until the april plenary. i would like to protest against this decision which is contrary to our own rules and i would ask the other groups to speak to their group chairmen so that this bad decision is reviewed by april.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 15 march 2012.
ladies and gentlemen, i'd like to ask you to rise from your seats. i am not going to go into detail. it is with great consternation that we have learned of the horrendous murders in montauban and toulouse. three children, three soldiers and a teacher were murdered treacherously and cowardly. our thoughts and prayers are with the parents, friends and relatives of those who were murdered. it must be hard for all of us to find words in the face of these cruel crimes. i have rarely in my life, and i think you will as well, seen a more abominable act than this. these are acts that affect us all. of course, they meet the parents, the siblings first. the loss of one's children - we had the sad duty to speak about this in strasbourg only a few weeks ago - is surely the cruelest thing that can happen to a parent in his or her life. losing her like that is even more terrible. we live in a world where it is becoming more and more common for cowardly and cruel murderers to claim the right to decide who lives and who does not. or who use the lives of innocent children as a tool to spread their insane, supposedly political views. that is why we are all affected. and yet, in a situation such as the one we are in, in which the french people find themselves, in which the city of toulouse finds itself, in which the jewish community finds itself, in which the islamic community finds itself, we are all called upon, ladies and gentlemen, to uphold our values in spite of all the anger and all the grief. these are the values of mutual respect and tolerance. these are the values that the cowardly murderers are aiming at. not to respond with anger, but to respond with the determination to go beyond anything that divides us politically, to say: we agree on one thing: respect and tolerance for others, regardless of their colour, religion, sex or political beliefs, is the basis of our civilised society. i believe that we should not only commemorate and express our sorrow, but also express our determination to defend these values in our europe through our sorrow and solidarity with the victims. (parliament adopted the resolution)
it is with great pleasure that we welcome mr ahmet şık, a turkish journalist who has been unjustly detained for over a year, to the gallery of this house. the trial is still going on, but mr. şık is free. the house has repeatedly expressed its concern about the problem of pre-trial detention, particularly in the case of mr şık. i am pleased, mr şık, to welcome you today as a free man in this parliament, which has fought so hard for your release. welcome to the european parliament! (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, i am also pleased to welcome the members of a delegation from the parliament of tanzania. the delegation has taken its place in the gallery. the tanzanian delegation is visiting the european parliament this week as part of a study tour organized by the office for the promotion of parliamentary democracy. welcome to the club. (applause from the centre)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 15 march, pursuant to rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. i would like to propose to the house, following the discussions with the political groups, the following amendments to the final draft agenda: wednesday:the report by mr lambsdorff on the european endowment for democracy afet (a7-0061/2012) will be taken without debate and will be included directly in the voting on thursday. thursday:the legal affairs committee adopted four reports by mr rapkay on the protection of mr de magistris' immunity. these reports will be included directly in the voting.
mr silvestris, if you want a roll-call vote, we would be grateful if your group would ask for it. then we can have a roll call vote. (the agenda is therefore adopted.)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i should also like to thank the rapporteur first. he has put forward a very good draft, and together we have made an excellent report. thank you for your cooperation. the report is so good because it is balanced. it acknowledges the progress serbia has made in recent years and months, but puts its finger in the wound where it is still needed. the many important advances have already been mentioned: cooperation with the un tribunal, rule of law and economic reforms and, albeit hesitantly, a willingness to compromise on the kosovo case. but kosovo is a keyword where the total debt side still clearly outweighs the debt side. the recent agreements on integrated border management are an important step and have paved the way to candidate status. but the agreement has yet to be implemented. the european union has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the negotiations for the establishment of a european union-wide police force. we must send a clear signal to belgrade. agreements must be respected and implemented, campaign or not. this is how serbia will be measured. i think that will soon become very concrete when it comes to the question of opening accession talks. i hope that happens as soon as possible. however, this is subject to the criteria set out by the eu commission. and this is particularly true of relations with kosovo. serbia also faces other challenges, in particular in the fight against corruption, the protection of minorities and judicial reform. the european union has a duty to help the serbs in their struggle for independence, and the serbs must be able to help themselves to the european union. we will be critical of the problems, but we will always be fair, because our common goal is that serbia should become part of the european family.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, on kosovo i can state clearly that i am optimistic about the situation as it has developed since the submission of the 2011 progress report by the commission. the council conclusions of 28 february this year also reflect the very considerable efforts made by both serbia and kosovo in the eu-facilitated dialogue. as you know, last december the council welcomed kosovo’s commitment to the european agenda, including through its sustained efforts in areas such as visas, trade and the judicial system, as well as the establishment of the national council for european integration. the council also welcomed the improved integration of serbs south of the ibar river. at the same time, the council noted the limited progress achieved with regard to the reform agenda in a year marked by elections, and it urged kosovo to take the necessary steps to address the shortcomings identified in the electoral process. kosovo was also encouraged to improve the budgetary situation, in close cooperation with the imf. the council noted the need for major efforts on the part of the authorities, particularly to strengthen public administration reform and consolidate the rule of law. evidence was needed to demonstrate that organised crime and corruption are being tackled and that progress is being made in pursuing judicial reform and protecting freedom of expression. the council also invited kosovo to launch an inclusive and long-term agenda for northern kosovo. in addition to these requirements, the council emphasised the crucial importance of the eu-facilitated belgrade/priština dialogue as a process of equal importance for both serbia and kosovo. the council called on both parties to engage constructively on the full range of issues, from freedom of movement of persons to customs and from the cadastre to the implementation of the integrated management for crossing points, the ibm. this call was certainly heard in both belgrade and priština. progress was made over the subsequent months, and considerable political courage was demonstrated in both capitals. these are very positive developments, which demonstrate the power of the enlargement process to promote reform. equally important is the fact that the eu has responded to these efforts. the visa dialogue was launched in january 2012. furthermore, the commission intends to launch a structured dialogue on the rule of law and a feasibility study for a stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and kosovo. these are important incentives. i think we all agree that kosovo’s future lies within the european union. solid implementation of the agreements reached between belgrade and priština will bring serbia and kosovo further on their path towards the eu. on the other hand, many challenges lie ahead for the leadership in kosovo, not least on the domestic agenda. here the eu is also ready to assist. i very much hope that more resources will be put in place on the ground to support the initiatives from brussels and from the new eusr/head of delegation, who has been in place for only a few weeks.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am grateful for your kind invitation to participate in your discussion on kosovo. i am also grateful for your support for the commission’s work on kosovo, as confirmed by the report we will debate here today, and i am very grateful for the excellent work of your rapporteur, ms lunacek, in preparing this well-balanced report and ensuring broad support for it. i have just returned from kosovo. on tuesday i had the pleasure of attending the very first meeting of kosovo’s council for european integration. the council was set up by kosovo’s president jahjaga in order to establish a forum for discussion and guidance on kosovo’s path to europe. in my speech to the council for european integration, i emphasised that it was essential that the council reflect and be supported by all sides of the political spectrum in kosovo. the council needs to build as broad and inclusive a consensus across society as possible. only with the support and engagement of all political forces and communities will kosovo be able to make the efforts at reform required to move successfully towards europe. european integration requires the support and commitment of kosovo society as a whole. by its very nature, european integration is and needs to be inclusive. honourable members, what can we do to support kosovo on its way towards closer integration? the general affairs council of 28 february confirmed the commission’s intention to launch a feasibility study for a stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo. this marks the beginning of a new stage in the european union’s relationship with kosovo. the council’s endorsement firmly anchors kosovo in the european union’s policy framework for the western balkans. it marks a crucial step towards the establishment of contractual relations with kosovo. the objective of the feasibility study is to provide a comprehensive and in-depth analysis of kosovo’s readiness to negotiate and eventually implement a stabilisation and association agreement, which forms the legal basis of the european union’s relations with the countries of the western balkans and a stepping stone towards membership. the study will focus on the political, economic and legal aspects of kosovo’s readiness for a stabilisation and association agreement. my visit to kosovo yesterday marked the start of our work. the launch of the feasibility study was another, additional key element in the european union’s already ambitious agenda for kosovo. let me mention some of the key elements of this agenda. first, i hope that we will be able to issue the visa liberalisation roadmap for kosovo later in the spring. second, we will shortly resubmit our proposal for a framework agreement allowing kosovo to participate in european union programmes. third, on 30 may, i will launch the structured dialogue on the rule of law. fourth, we will support kosovo’s bid for membership of the european bank for reconstruction and development, once kosovo chooses to submit its application. fifth, we are ready to support an inclusive and long-term agenda for the north of kosovo. let me conclude by reaffirming the european union’s commitment to kosovo. the last few weeks have shown that these are not just empty words but are backed up by concrete action. the commission is fully engaged with kosovo. 2012 should be a year of opportunity, and i trust i can count on parliament’s support to turn this opportunity into reality.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not this year marks the centenary of the conquest of kosovo by royal serbian troops in the first balkan war. what happened then is documented in reports by the carnegie foundation and the austrian social democrat leo freundlich. it was followed by 86 years of repression and, finally, the attempted genocide by the milošević regime. for 12 years now, the kosovars have had the chance to build a european democratic state. they have great problems, but they have also done tremendous things. it is our task today to recognise this and to support them on their way. to be clear, i am in favour of serbia's membership of the european union! i was in serbia on sunday for that. but i am asking for justice for kosovo. serbia has candidate status, while kosovo is still not recognised by five eu countries. that has to change. in kosovo, minority rights are guaranteed, and seats in parliament are reserved on the basis of the ahtisaari plan and the kosovar constitution. after the serbian elections, there is a danger that the albanians in the preševo valley will not even have a single member of the serbian parliament. the serbs in kosovo have a deputy prime minister and a deputy speaker of parliament. i therefore really believe that we must exercise restraint and rationality here and set the same clear conditions for both sides on the road to european union. there are nine agreements between pristina and belgrade. of these nine agreements, the most important have not yet been signed and two are halfway implemented. the others didn't. we want to see action, not just promises and words. we want to see the deeds before the serbian elections and not to see them being re-capped afterwards. and we clearly do not want the division of kosovo, nor a new escalation of the status issue, but a european development of a young european democracy!
question for the commissioner: the commission is not i would ask mr provera if he is aware that mr marty of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe has not been able to present any evidence to the foreign affairs committee of our parliament to support his allegation of organ trafficking. of course, this needs to be investigated. but there's no proof, and i just want to know if mr. provera knows that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the belgrade-pristina talks had been a first success here in brussels. i would say that it takes courage! the courage of prime minister thaçi and president tadić. we should recognize this courage because it was a first step, a prerequisite for a positive development. it is now up to us to show the people of kosovo that we mean business. that is why we support commissioner malmström in her commitment to visa liberalisation, and we support you, commissioner füle, in the feasibility study for the conclusion of the stability and association agreement. you can count on our undying solidarity if you start working here. but we should also say something here: this has been true in the past and this will be true in the future: both sides must know that they can only move closer to the eu together or in parallel. no one's gonna make it at the expense of the other. we're not going to be a part of that.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr van orden, you know that i am a strong opponent of turkish accession to the eu, and you once replied to me as you have now: if turkey joins the eu, it will be a very different europe. what do you mean, "i'm not"? what then of the eu?
madam president, i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs oomen-ruijten, on her good work. many problems still remain unsolved in turkey – press freedom, minority rights (especially those of transgender people and homosexuals), the environment and the kurdish question, to mention just a few – and also in cyprus, where a sustainable settlement needs to be reached and the isolation of the northern part brought to an end. solving these issues will be very beneficial for turkey and its citizens. the accession process is an important incentive for change and reform in turkey, as it is for other enlargement countries as well. however, this will only be an incentive as long as we are clear in our commitment to welcome turkey as soon as it fulfils the copenhagen criteria, just as we have done with other countries. our most important tool for change and reform is the accession negotiations. it is incomprehensible why we deprive ourselves of this tool by not opening the chapters on justice and fundamental rights as well as on home affairs, in which a lot of the problems i just mentioned – and a lot of the concerns raised in this house – are included. we should open them as soon as possible. we should be sincere in our wish to help turkey solve those problems. therefore, chapters 23 and 24 should be opened as soon as possible so that we can welcome turkey to the eu as soon as the criteria are fulfilled.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by saying that the sections in mrs oomen-ruijten's report dealing with the subject of justice and constitutional reform have been very successful in my view. i want to congratulate her on that. however, i would like to point out that the issue of the situation of the kurds in turkey is, in my view, far too short. there are not only - as has been pointed out on several occasions - a few hundred imprisoned journalists, but there are several thousand imprisoned kurdish people, in particular kurdish politicians who belong to the bdp. some of them are elected members of parliament. i think that this is not the way to resolve the conflict between the turkish government and the kurds. it would be appropriate for the report to be more explicit on this subject. we have also tabled amendments with some members for tomorrow. i would welcome a majority for these amendments. i don't think it's gonna help to close your eyes at this point. the eu needs to be clearer on this!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. we social democrats have always made it clear that we are committed to the prospect of turkey's accession. we are still in that position. unfortunately, we also have to state that we do not like the current policy of erdoğan and his government. it is true that many reforms have been carried out and democratization processes have been advanced; the economy is booming. but on the other hand, there are worrying developments: the european union has also been involved in the negotiations on the new agreement on the free movement of persons. we are also concerned about the threat by the turkish prime minister to freeze relations with the eu during the cypriot presidency. this is totally unacceptable. the process of reform and democratisation must nevertheless continue and be continued. it is also clear that turkey is not a candidate country but a partner country with which the eu is negotiating accession on the basis of its own unanimous decisions. maybe some of you haven't noticed. and some of you who speak of values: i'm afraid to see these values even in the beginning. we must keep our promises. i think it is a very good report, but unfortunately some of the speeches here are of very poor quality. this is a disgrace.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank mrs oomen-ruijten for this report. it shows us how important turkey is to the eu, not only economically but also politically, as a link between the regions of central asia, arabia and africa. despite all the progress turkey has made in recent years, there is much to catch up with. key words: kurdish minorities, imprisoned journalists. that's been made very clear here. we must therefore make every effort to find solutions to the problems which still exist in turkey together with the turkish government and turkish society and to support turkey in its reforms. i am quite shocked by the way in which some of my colleagues here are calling into question the union's basic rights: the right to freedom of religion, the right to freedom of expression. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the positive agenda for turkey should be presented as soon as possible and developed as far as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr vajgl did not quote the treaty correctly. the main criterion for membership is that a country is european and meets the criteria. turkey is not a european state. i am in favour of a federalist, strong europe. this will not happen with turkey as a full member. that is why we must find other forms of integration. i am also in favour of an honest policy towards turkey. as one of your predecessors, mr füle, once said: 'what are you worried about, mr posselt? turkey will never become a member anyway. this was someone who had been publicly speaking for it all along. the turks are feeling this dishonesty. we want a clear partnership, but not full membership. turkey will also be stabilized. everything else is destabilizing, both for turkey and the eu.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. montenegro is clearly a european country. a country which is the oldest modern state in the balkans, with a great slavic but also albanian culture, a meeting place between christians and muslims. minorities are traditionally very well protected. that is to say, despite the many problems that still exist, i believe that montenegro is on a very good path which we should support massively. i therefore welcome the excellent report by charles tannock and i believe that a montenegrin commissioner and a montenegrin member of parliament would also be an enrichment for this european union. the country could become something like the luxembourg of the balkans.
mr president, i would also like to congratulate very much the rapporteur, my colleague rui, on this excellent report, even though it took a long time. i think it is high time that we finally passed this. resettlement – as we all know – is the last hope for many people in this world who can never return to their homes; people who are traumatised and suffering from the effects of war and other things. other countries in the world, such as the united states, already resettle quite substantial numbers, at least when compared with eu member states which do not resettle very many people. i hope that the resettlement programme will change this. finally, we – as the eu – are encouraging member states to take the step, but that still means that they have to take it themselves. i would urge the council to encourage member states to take up this initiative and really resettle substantial numbers of people. we have the ‘save me’ campaign at a local level. many communities in the european union have said ‘yes, we want to have people here in our community.’ so please, council, do part of the job and resettle some.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking derek vaughan as our main reporter and my co-rapporteurs. we have worked very closely together and exchanged information very intensively and tried to find reasonable solutions together to take a first step towards estimates. i think it is worth mentioning that the increase in the european parliament's budget is already below the rate of inflation and that we want to continue to work intensively on a systematic review of parliament's expenditure until autumn in order to find further potential for savings. in this context, we also want to make it very clear to the public that we are aware that the european parliament needs reasonable equipment to be able to work well, but that where we see that there are savings opportunities, we also want to take advantage of them. i think that this certainly includes the fact that where we can intervene in the field of buildings, we must be careful with the money. in this context, it should be noted, however, that we have already identified initial savings potentials and that we have already been able to make a significant reduction, especially in the area of overpriced rents. as regards the merger to a single location, i would suggest that we should also calculate the cost of merger and the consequence of merger to a single location, and not just the fictitious costs arising from the travel required by the different locations. this might be necessary for a sensible analysis, because there are officials who do not have to travel at all, since they have nothing to do with parliament directly and its work, so that a merger might not result in any advantage at all. it is simply a matter of carefully and impartially analyzing it. i would like to thank the members for their support. i think we're making good estimates.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are dealing with a transitional budget which is already a little lacking in ambition. it is a budget that is based on execution, and that could be a mistake given the challenges here. i miss transparency of costs, especially with regard to the kad building in luxembourg. mr vaughan, i did not like the fact that the figures have now disappeared completely from your report. after the vote in the budget committee, there were still figures in it about what the kad building should cost. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i do not think it is right that we do not even say what this great challenge means for parliament in euro and cent for the next few years. we have another construction site open, and that is the three parallel pension funds whose financing is pending and which are currently running a deficit of over 350 million euros in total. this deficit is growing. there are no plans or forecasts as to how we are going to handle this budget. i think we would be well advised to take really bold decisions for this parliament's budget, that we should above all fill in these structural gaps that we have provided, just as the taxpayers really expect. we must be careful that we do not continue to make decisions that will greatly impede our freedom of design for years and decades to come by means of annual consequential costs.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the commission is not prepared to accept this. my dear colleagues! the development of the european corporate governance framework is to be welcomed. it is usually the practice in our legal affairs committee that in the case of own-initiative reports, i.e. non-legislative proposals, we involve all the political groups by way of compromise. it didn't work this time, and that's a good thing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for example, we believe that the 'contribute or justify' principle is a useful tool in corporate governance. any deviation from the code of conduct shall be duly justified and the alternative corporate governance measure shall be further described and explained. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. it is not possible to put listed companies, some of which are small, on a par with unlisted companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, and then to demand that any well-founded departure from the relevant code be sanctioned. this is socialism. the diversity of enterprise cultures also means that german or austrian participation cannot simply be imposed on other member states. even if this might prevent some unnecessary strikes, such as those which are now taking place more frequently in southern europe. let me now turn to the women's quota. we in alde have tabled an amendment to this effect, with a very wide-ranging proposal on the representation of women on supervisory boards. we are not entirely in agreement here in our group either, as we have just heard from speakers from other groups. i hope, however, that there will be broad agreement. in future, i would like the commission to take a little more account of the dual structure we have in europe and not just focus on the monistic system with the board of directors.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. if i understand you correctly, commissioner, the statement you made today is that the commission is fighting for the continuation of the food programme for the most deprived people in the european union. it will do all it can to put forward concrete ideas in the foreseeable future: a) where exactly the programme will be located and b) how funding will be provided. i think that is urgently needed and i think that we have a collective responsibility to make sure that this food programme actually becomes a reality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am thinking of greece, spain and other countries where exactly what we are doing as the european union is mainly at the expense of the poorest of the poor. we'll put up a sign. but unfortunately, it's not anymore. i think it is therefore urgent that we continue to put the fight against poverty at the top of our agenda, at the top of our own agenda. we haven't been able to get that signal yet. but i think that is the crucial point if we are to make further progress and if we are to win the confidence of the citizens of our european union that we are really building a social and solidarity-based union. in that sense, you have our support. we ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, are also called upon to do something to ensure that the governments which have so far blocked the way must abandon this attitude. this is also a piece of self-commitment for us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are really in agreement on this point across the political groups, and we will also be able to convince the countries which have so far opposed the programme. it is our task, of course, in solidarity with the 18 million people who depend on it, to continue this programme. but it must be put on a new foundation, that is clear to everyone here. the surpluses of the european agricultural policy, as mr lyon has already pointed out, are no longer there. we must therefore find a new basis as soon as possible, a new distribution, including the judgments of the courts. i believe that we must strengthen the regional initiatives, both of those who hand out food and of those who distribute food. we need to get the tablets into a supply network. and we have to provide security. we cannot, as we did last time, save a fund for two years. and now we've been talking for two years and we still don't know where it's going. those who depend on aid are in dire need of security, not just for seasonal periods, but for a long-term programme.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank the president-in-office for his reply. we are delighted that you have the opportunity to address us on such an important matter as the annual report. we hope to see you more often. the eib is to play a very important role in the new multiannual programmes. we hope that the eib will continue to work hard on the points you have just promised us, namely the question of increasing transparency. we have repeatedly shown that we know far too little about the costs which the eib charges the eu for the management of financial instruments. we therefore expressly ask that our questions and the points raised in mrs ivanova's report be answered. we have noticed in the committee on budgetary control a growing interest among our colleagues in the eib. we see that many colleagues want a strong eib. but we also want an eib that gives us more information, beyond the colourful pictures and beautiful brochures of figures and facts, so that we have a real insight into how the money is being managed on the ground. you must never forget that you are a relatively small institution. the eu is a relatively large organisation. the eu has more people on the ground than you do. that means that the question of how you can do things better than the eu is on the table. we're also asking for a follow-up. i would point out that the expansion of the eib's capital base cannot in any way be achieved by taking over the structural funds that have been set aside, as i have just heard a german colleague of yours suggest. we believe that the eib is an important instrument to complement the eu and its important activities. that is why we want an efficient eib, but not a substitute for eu activities.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. first of all, i would like to welcome the president of the eib, mr werner hoyer, and congratulate him on his commitment and his persuasive approach. we must now, after monetary stabilisation, focus fully on real economic growth. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. in 2010, the eib provided €10 billion to 115 000 smes. nevertheless, there is a credit crunch in smes, particularly in the crisis countries and in the periphery. we here in the european parliament expect the eib to do everything possible to give more support to small and mediumsized enterprises. we would also like to know more about the importance of guarantees for smes and the possibilities of risk-sharing facilities. we also believe it is important that the eib plays a role in infrastructure financing in the eu project bonds. in summary, we are in favour of putting infrastructure, technology and innovation at the heart of the eib's strategy for blue growth.
mr president, dear olli rehn, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr werner hoyer on his brilliant and excellent start to his new office. mr hoyer, these are not easy times for the european union. we need economic and political expertise in this economic and financial crisis. bring both. the european parliament is pleased to have you at the helm of the eib. i would also like to thank the outgoing vice-president, mr matthias kollatz-ahnen, who has done a great deal. for example, in connection with the establishment of the european energy efficiency fund. the contribution of your bank, dear werner hoyer, is crucial to overcoming the crisis. we all know it. you proved it, too. for example, in overcoming the crisis in the automobile sector. the scrapping premium, which was mainly paid by your bank, has enabled us to do something good for the environment, but also something good for the economy. now there are new challenges. the subject of project bonds has been raised several times. we're constantly talking about innovative financial instruments that we're looking to your bank for. but we need clear rules; we expect clear rules from your bank for all the member states! we wish you the best in your endeavour to achieve the triple-a rating for the bank. we would like to see the eu become a shareholder, and that would perhaps be a step in the right direction. good luck with your work.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, the commission welcomes the political agreement reached on emir, but would like the minutes to mention its legal objections to one of the provisions of the text. the commission considers that article 67 (3) should be deleted. the commission considers that article 290 should be interpreted as meaning that it is autonomous in the preparation and adoption of delegated acts. the standard recitals on expert opinions contained in the memoranda of understanding agreed between the three institutions reflect this interpretation. it is therefore unacceptable and contrary to article 290 to go beyond the recital in the preamble to the memorandum of understanding and to introduce an obligation to consult experts in a material provision.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the chairman of the committee will be taking a position on this point of law shortly. the council and parliament rejected the commission's request. there is therefore a consensus in both legislative bodies that the request is not justified. but let me make a few comments on the project. we are passing this derivatives regulation, one of the cornerstones of financial market regulation. three and a half years after lehman, we're going to make sure that otc derivative contracts are centrally settled, backed by equity and reported. in 2011, the volume was 708 trillion us dollars, twelve times the world's gdp of all seven billion people. the new regulation will finally give the supervisory authorities an insight into this large and opaque market. the risk of financial instruments is reduced. we have created strict requirements, including regulations for third country institutions, for central counterparties, which in future will have to be intermediaries in every transaction. i should like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues, including the commission, and commissioner barnier. i regret that the rules of procedure do not allow us to have a full debate on such an important vote. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. because since july 2011, when the debate was held here in this parliament, the outcome has been negotiated in trilogue, and we have not had the opportunity to discuss it here. the rules of procedure must be changed here! (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, my group has tabled the original amendment. we regret that it is not possible to mention the newspaper zaman here, because it was the only newspaper to which the attacks in cologne, paris, london, rotterdam and zurich were directed. we shall nevertheless be voting for mr obiol's amendment as a group, to show that freedom of the press is a central objective for us.
i have to say, madam president, in the voting lists my report has been marked as an own-initiative report. but it is a recommendation to the council from a regulatory point of view. that's a different character. we should not have voted on the report at all, because the rules of procedure say that it is adopted if there are no amendments from the political groups. i ask that the documents be corrected if necessary to correct this.
i have to say, madam president, i do not understand the rejoicing of the friends in brussels over article 2 any more than i understand the rejoicing of my colleague záborská, because we have already got a seat. it is literally in the treaty that the seat of the european parliament is in strasbourg. we must only implement it accordingly, as president schulz has now also stated in a grateful initiative which we should support. i want to make one thing very clear: if we had avoided this nonsensical mini-plenary session today - we could have done so without amending the treaty - and had voted on all this at the normal plenary session in strasbourg, we would have taken the first step towards saving money. but those who have prevented this are the very people who have talked about saving money. that's why this is all hypocrisy and propaganda and nothing else.
i have to say, madam president, previously, the postponement of sports competitions was called "symbol politics". but their abstention in a brutal dictatorship that kills people indiscriminately is also symbolism, and it is bad symbolism. the holding of the olympic games in national socialist germany was bad symbolism. the beijing olympics, they said, would promote democracy and the rule of law. the regime, on the contrary, embellished itself with the games. that was bad symbolism. that is why i am in favour of good symbolism and of postponing the games.
i have to say, madam president, of course, i am in favour of clear compliance with the criteria, particularly with regard to minority rights and the rule of law. i also appeal to serbia to sign and implement the agreements with kosovo at last. i would like to use this declaration of vote to express my fundamental and massive sympathy for the serbian people. i was in belgrade on sunday with the serbian orthodox patriarch, the catholic archbishop, the congress of the pan-european union. the people of this country are in the midst of a european upheaval, and we must and will do everything we can to support this upheaval. we must be clear that we should never throw a people into the same pot with a dictator who has abused them as milosevic did. the serbian people are a freedom-loving, great european people and it will be an enrichment to have them in our community.
in writing. - consumers and passengers are often the same. i therefore strongly welcome the call for the reinforcement of compensation and assistance for delay and cancellation, and the rights of travellers with reduced mobility. i am very much in favour of price transparency, as already set out in my report, but also of the creation of simplified dispute resolution procedures. air passengers and airlines must also be able to enforce their rights effectively!
in writing. - i am very grateful to mrs valean and in particular to mr philippe boulland for the good report. citizenship of the union is accompanied by a whole range of rights and benefits. but in order to exercise their rights, european citizens must also be aware of them. this requires mutual communication, making citizens aware of their rights and opportunities. on the other hand, we also need feedback where there are problems. this process will not only strengthen the exercise of union rights, but hopefully also confidence in the positive achievements of the eu.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 29 march 2012.
ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to welcome today 12 croatian observers to their first plenary session in the european parliament. (parliament adopted the resolution) i would like to thank the president-in-office for his reply. today you are taking your seats in this chamber for the first time. from today you will also be attending the meetings of the committees and the meetings of the political groups. they will take part in the debates there. this will help you to prepare for your country's pending accession to the european union. they will then be preparing to represent the interests of a full member of the european union and the citizens of this country. the european parliament has already ratified the treaty of accession, as you all know. we hope that croatia will become the 28th member state of the european union on 1 july 2013. (applause from the centre) this will be a historic day for croatia. i believe that it will also be a historic day for the european union and a historic day for the western balkans as a whole. the fact that we have new colleagues from a country which is joining the eu, working with us here today, first as observers and later as full members, is also a signal that the european union, despite the crisis we have to discuss every day and even today, has lost none of its fascination as an idea of cooperation between states and peoples across borders. there are still many who envy us this process of integration. and there are nations that want to join this community of nations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. this is also expressed symbolically by the presence of the new observers from croatia. i welcome you once again. (applause from the centre)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on monday 12 march 2012 in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the epp group calls for statements by the council and the commission on the legal certainty of european investment outside the european union to be included on the agenda. the declarations will be followed by a round of speeches by the political groups.
mr swoboda, i understood that you wanted to speak in favour of the motion. (parliament adopted the resolution) the council and commission statements on legal certainty for european investment outside the european union will be on the agenda for wednesday afternoon. the deadlines for tabling motions for resolutions are: wednesday, 12 noon; thursday, 12 noon, for amendments and joint motions for resolutions; thursday, 1 p.m., for amendments to joint motions for resolutions. the vote will take place on friday 20 april 2012.
i am surprised, of course, mr salafranca. i have been informed that your group wants to have its own proper agenda item. we have just given a detailed explanation of this, and it has just been decided. in that respect, i am surprised by your additional request. the high representative will certainly be unable to take account of this in her remarks which she will make shortly. the s&d group is calling for the report by mrs lulling on the taxation of energy products and electricity to be postponed.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i support mr swoboda's request to withdraw this report from the agenda. it is in fact so immature on some points that it needs further debate. as it is written at the moment, it is quite clear that diesel would be considerably more expensive. our motorists and our industry really do not need this economic signal. i therefore think it is right to continue the debate on this report and to bring forward the parts which are not controversial in the next reading of this parliament.
mrs lulling, we could have understood you in letzeburgish. (parliament rejected the request) the motion for a resolution tabled by the gue group pursuant to rule 90 (6) of the rules of procedure on the pnr agreement with the united states will be placed on the agenda immediately before the vote on mrs in't veld's report. the report by mr kaczmarek on the management of external aid by the commission's delegations sets a deadline for the rapporteur or 76 members to table amendments and alternative motions for resolutions, which is 12 noon on wednesday 18 april. (the agenda is therefore adopted.)
the next item is the report by mr richard howitt, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on human rights in the world and the european union's policy in this area.
i have to say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to thank mr howitt for his excellent work. secondly, we often have a problem of how to make the human rights we largely agree on really operational. i am therefore pleased that there is clearly an intention to appoint a human rights officer in the foreign service and to set up a special section for religious freedom here as well. because we have to see that this is one of the big issues in a preventive human rights policy. if we look at the way things are going in egypt at the moment, how the christian minorities there are in tremendous fear - they say 1 million christians are sitting on the suitcases - if we look at what is happening with the constitutional process in egypt, and that there are perhaps 15 million copts who after centuries of a modus vivendi with islam are now living in a completely new situation, then we see big, dramatic developments ahead of us that we have to be active in today, which could lead to migration on a large scale. this aspect should also be considered, and we should not be too embarrassed to say that persecution of christians is also a difficult point. but it is also important that trade agreements be reviewed. i am grateful that the association agreement with ukraine has not yet been signed either. as long as the opposition is in prison, as long as a seriously ill opposition leader is pressured to be questioned, and the use of painkillers is only allowed if she agrees to be further questioned - that is, it is used as an instrument of torture, as has now been established by medical examinations - then it must be said that there is a limit to all practical and strategic considerations, that despite all these considerations we do not forget our principles.
i have to say, madam president, lady ashton is right: one of the hallmarks of this house is that it has done systematic human rights work since the first direct elections in 1979. we want the same profile of the council and the commission. that is your responsibility, lady ashton. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the persecution of christians: of course you are right, dear colleague de keyser. we also support freedom of conscience and freedom of religion for muslims and agnostics. but christians are being persecuted in a special way throughout the world, and europe, as a predominantly christian continent, must see itself in a special way as the protector of christians throughout the world. it is our duty to do so, so that we do not neglect anyone else. i cannot accept it when you say that something must be done for the homosexuals - i am for that too - but we must not mention the christians. the christian people are our very special target group in human rights policy. secondly, we need to have a common standard for all, not just criticise small countries for human rights violations and leave out big countries like china and russia. we must apply the same strict standards to the large as to the small, even if this affects some economic interests. and the third and final point: it is crucial that human rights are not abused ideologically. i am for the human rights of all people and all groups. but to abuse human rights in order to impose certain socio-political ideas is a threat to human rights and unworthy of the human rights work of this house. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we are talking today about human rights in the world, outside the eu, and there is a particular problem of the persecution of christians. but of course, we also have to stand up for muslims and others around the world. the repression of muslims in serbia, a candidate country to the european union, in the novi pazar sand dune, for example, is a huge problem, as are many other problems we have. of course, the dignity of the human being is inviolable. this is true of everyone, regardless of his religion or opinion.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to ask my colleague, mrs papadopoulou, whether she will join us in ensuring that the cyprus presidency of the council, which we are very much looking forward to, calls more clearly on turkey to respect human rights and minority rights. parliament has spoken clearly. lady ashton, we need the same clear language on the part of the council and the commission towards turkey. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the present human rights report is a very good, comprehensive document, on which we will hopefully vote this week by a large majority. i would now like to speak about the differences of opinion we have had and have had in parliament on the demands that have been made to detect, educate and deal with human rights violations, such as kidnappings or the establishment of secret prisons in europe. if we don't, we're going to be very untrustworthy. we must address and work on the question of co-responsibility, indeed the complicity of individual member states. we have held a full hearing on this matter in the human rights committee last week. i therefore ask all those who are still undecided to vote in favour of these demands so that we can do so and have the courage to develop a policy to prevent such crimes in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, my impression is that we are all in agreement here on the political assessment of the coup in mali. we welcome the fact that the development is going in the right direction, at least as far as the capital is concerned. the capital and its surroundings are only a small part of mali. the problem of the occupation and this unilateral declaration of independence has not been solved. i am very pleased that we as the eu have committed ourselves to what we do best - namely, humanitarian aid - and that this will certainly be put into practice very soon. i think we should also use the time to ensure that ecowas can play its role. we must of course also coordinate this with the african union. we have already provided assistance in other cases where the african union has acted as an institution. the problem is that we find very limited statehood in these countries, from western sahara to mauritania, mali, niger, chad, sudan, but also in southern algeria and southern libya. there's not a lot of presence of government agencies, and the result is that there's a vacuum where terrorist organizations can flourish. we must also ensure that the export of small arms and light weapons, which is fuelling instability in africa, is stopped. it is not the weapons of mass destruction but these light weapons that are destabilizing many countries.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the situation in syria is still terrible and unacceptable. of course, the most important thing is to keep up the pressure, to offer observers helicopters and airplanes, and – as ms de keyser said – to support operationalisation, because so far we have not seen the results that are really needed. we need to support the opposition both politically and logistically, and we cannot just leave it to others to support them selectively. i think that there is a risk that we will not see a building up of common ground, but i think that this could be our role. on the humanitarian side, we need to make it clear that the rights of refugees need to be guaranteed. shooting at refugees from any side is unacceptable. having said that, it is also our duty to help and support refugees in the countries in which they arrive. we can and must do much more there. but let me point out one really important issue: we need to act ourselves in order to end the bloodshed in syria. we need to be serious about our own arms embargo, and there are two incidents that i want to mention. on 10 january 2012, the cypriot authorities allowed a russian ship carrying more than 59 tonnes of weapons destined for assad to dock and refuel, despite clear evidence of its dangerous cargo. this is outrageous. cyprus cannot buy a financial bail-out from russia at the expense of the syrian opposition. on 13 april 2012, a german ship sailing under the flag of antigua and barbuda was stopped on its way to syria. the ship has now apparently changed its course, but – as of today – its exact whereabouts are unknown. this is unacceptable. the un and its member states have a duty to ensure that the arms embargo is respected. i have already sent you a priority written question on this, asking you to investigate the role of cyprus in the aforementioned incident. so far, i have not heard back from you. as a matter of urgency, we therefore ask you in an open letter to investigate these incidents and also finally to develop a real monitoring and oversight mechanism of our embargo systems. i will now personally deliver this letter to you, and i look forward to your answer. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, you know that in the arms embargo as adopted with amendments it also says that there is no allowance whatsoever for a transfer of arms. it depends, of course, how exactly you define transfer or transit. but what happened was a refuelling, and it went through the ports. you can of course say it was the russians, but going through cyprus, and all i am asking is for an investigation to be carried out in order to find out exactly the details and the facts. that is what we need – an investigation – and in the end we will see what the reality is – what the precise facts are. it is up to us, as the european union, to carry out such an investigation if we are to be credible in this region.
blue-card answer. – mr president, we have heard that steps are now being taken, but what i am saying is that at the time, it was known that the ship was in the port and yet it was not stopped. that is what i am criticising politically. how could you let this ship carrying 59 tonnes of weapons go to assad, knowing how he will use them? yes, perhaps something is now being done. we do not know the precise nature of this. i have not had confirmation on that, but i think it is up to the european union to have that conversation with the cypriot government. if in the end it turns out that this was the case, so much the better. but i want to have that discussion. i want to have that investigation. we cannot just be silent about this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not sure i understand. it is a mourning and a shame what the people in syria have to suffer. kofi annan did what he could as a mediator. but is plan b enough? i'm not going to. because until the international community, especially china and russia, make it clear to assad that he must go because there can be no lasting peace with him and his murderous clique, assad will continue to kill his own people until he has smothered any resistance in the bud. we must be aware of this! and anyone who still believes that it is possible to negotiate with assad and his minions is sadly mistaken. the turkish president erdoğan is absolutely right when he calls for more support for the refugees in the border region, including the establishment of a corridor for aid, which - and we know this very well - will probably be enforced only by the threat of arms or even force. nobody here wants an escalation or even a war. but how long will we, the world community, stand by and watch this murder? we need a plan b, because the six-point plan isn't going to work. but i'm still not seeing that plan b.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i had the opportunity to visit burma, or myanmar as it is now called, with several colleagues at the end of february. i felt it was almost a small miracle when president thein sein, who had been a member of a military junta, convinced us with a fair degree of credibility of his desire for reform. for us, the critical test came earlier this month when the by-elections took place. it was really impressive to see how the hitherto secret opposition leader aung san suu kyi actually won an overwhelming victory, even though she has been occasionally hampered in the election campaign. but we must be clear about one thing: your party, the new league for democracy, is still a very small party. it's only got a little over 40 seats at the moment. that is why the way it develops in the coming weeks, months and years will be crucial. the decisive milestone will be the 2015 elections. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the elections are free and fair, and that the elections are held in a democratic manner. until then, the reform process must continue swiftly. it is crucial that the current powers actually do, that they do, where they have already begun to offer something. they must release the remaining political prisoners, as mr belet has already said. they must offer the ethnic groups with whom they live in conflict a ceasefire and peace. they must offer their citizens full democratic rights, such as freedom of speech and of the press, and also on the internet, in schools and universities. they must ensure a free and independent press, an independent judiciary, and they must begin to build a systematic social market economy. we can and must help them, including the private sector. the extent to which burma implements reforms to bring about greater democracy and freedom for its citizens, the west can also reduce or even lift sanctions. it is in the interest of all of us that burma should break free from the grip of china and overcome the mass poverty of its citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i too had the opportunity to visit the country and accompany the delegation to burma. i would like to speak today about the challenges of human rights policy. i think it is very good that the eu is supporting the un in bangkok and that it is supporting the national human rights commission that is in burma to become really independent and to refine their methods. that is positive, but it will not be enough. the follow-up to the ceasefire agreements is particularly difficult, since they must lead to peace processes involving 16 different groups in a huge area. i think it's very important for the eu to act here, to see that the people who are living there or will return as internally displaced persons in the country or as refugees have a right to education, work, housing, health. these are areas that are extremely underdeveloped. the other question i've been asking myself is, will the military, who are not among the reformers, but are very influential, who -- if you look at the constitution -- have political power, just let go of that power after the 2015 elections, because they also -- i learned that there too -- have economic power and a lot of resources, like timber and jewelry, under their control. i therefore ask that when considering which sanctions are to be lifted, we should look carefully at them and not just quickly lift those which would also favour the non-reformists in the military.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not madam vice president! i am not going to go into detail. yes, with aung san suu kyi, one of the world's most iconic political figures is returning to the process of shaping her country. the overwhelming support she has now received in her election as a member of parliament clearly identifies her as a bearer of hope for her nation. but i would like to point out that the parliament she was elected to has no power to steer the future of the country in any other direction than the military wants it to. and the generals have put in place a constitution that guarantees control of the parliament in the future. it would therefore be an important signal of the seriousness of president thein sein's desire for change if he did not try to force the newly elected members of parliament to swear to protect this obsolete constitution in order to be able to take up their mandate. i would like to acknowledge that there have been a number of positive changes in the last two years. however, there is still a long way to go, and i agree with all my colleagues. the spotlight on suu kyi must not blind us to the fate of other political prisoners, to the continuing military operations against parts of our own population, to the plight of refugees and to the enrichment of a small elite in a country that is still bitterly poor. is there real change coming? or is there a risk of relapse? my group supports aung san suu kyi's call for the eu sanctions to be suspended but not lifted definitively. we would open up opportunities for their country to overcome poverty and encourage the military to continue on the path to democracy. we would also show that the european parliament is vigilant and that a return to dictatorships would have consequences.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank lady ashton specifically for her forward-looking programme and for her willingness to open her own office in rangoon or the new capital. we were with san suu kyi, the president, many members of the government, as an asean delegation, and we were able to convince ourselves that it was the president who initiated the reform process, not the sanctions. that's why we have to support his path. that's why we must support the opposition leader's path. the release of prisoners is important and right and must continue. the constitutional reform must not end with the by-elections. there is a wealth of work to be done, but we also know that such a reform process will not be accomplished overnight. he needs time. even where it was much easier, in the former communist-ruled dictatorship of the gdr, which was taken over by the federal republic of germany at reunification, it took years and decades. we must support this process. burma is one of the richest countries in the world, but a small clique of military men have exploited this country. today, the population is one of the poorest in the world. this is not least because the sanctions - especially in the financial sector - have allowed the military leadership to transfer to the state budget at the old conversion rate of 1.6 billion in oil, gas and commodity revenues, while the real rate is 1.800 to the us dollar, and less than 1% of the revenues have gone to the population and the rest to the military. we need to get this thing started. if we support this process, if we support the fight against poverty, the education gap, the development of infrastructure, if we gradually lift the sanctions or lift them for a certain period, then it will be possible to actively support burma's path towards democracy. i wish them and us all the best. the asean delegation will be critical but positive in its support of this process.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. my dear mrs ashton! the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: your contribution has shown me that the colleagues who recently visited myanmar with me and mr langen as part of an asean delegation have a slightly different view. it is no longer possible to say that there is still a junta regime. there are democratic tendencies there, which we have seen and felt firsthand. and i think that everyone who has witnessed this democratic upsurge on the ground is impressed, relieved and also excited. i think that is particularly true when we look at the debate we have just had and the developments in syria, mali or egypt. what can the eu do to help this process continue in myanmar? because sympathy alone is not enough. we must continue to support development aid projects. we should also encourage the asean countries, especially the neighbouring country of thailand, to continue to help as they have done for a long time. but we also have to lift the sanctions. a newspaper recently wrote: myanmar is a gold mine: raw materials, gas and oil in huge dimensions everything is now available. they're expecting a six percent increase. we must also ensure - not alone, but the eu also has a duty - that this development and this wealth of a country that is still very poor in some respects does not end up in the coffers of big capital in america, europe and china, but in the hands of the people themselves. only then will we have a solid, peaceful and democratic, long-term construction of a country.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for this short but nevertheless very inspiring discussion on the black sea synergy and strategy. i am a firm believer that together, the black sea synergy – including our extensive range of cross-border cooperation – the european union’s integrated maritime strategy and the european union’s danube strategy can build a coherent approach towards the black sea. continuing along the same line as the last speaker, i could add that my colleague maria damanaki has started a process to ensure that all black sea coastal countries are actively and equally involved in shaping a common maritime agenda for the basin they share and that they cooperate further, including towards sustainable fisheries management. a stakeholder conference on maritime affairs and fisheries in the black sea will take place in bucharest in november this year. this joined-up approach can increase the possibilities for cooperation where there is a common interest between the european union and its black sea partners in tackling the challenges facing the region, such as transport, environment, maritime and fisheries policy and education. we hope that this approach will also build increased levels of trust and confidence between the countries around the black sea. the european union needs to review its interest in the region, including its strategic, political and economic dimensions, and to further discuss how best they can be achieved. in this endeavour we count on the support of the european parliament and look forward to future recommendations. regarding the support, let me assure parliament that we remain committed to the european union’s strategy for the black sea region – but at the right time. in the meantime we are working hard on the many elements i have mentioned. listening to some of you i had the feeling that issues such as the security of energy, regional cooperation and democratisation were considered to be non-existent because the black sea strategy is not there. that is not true: we are working hard on these issues. i made a point about the eastern partnership and developing the kind of policy where we are indeed building the european union within that region. the interesting point of our debates in this institution – but also with the council members – is that there are a number of people calling for the strategy, the framework and the institutional framework and asking when those people will be invited by me to present some concrete ideas in addition to what we are doing – how we would like to see this strategy, the pillars, the structure. to tell the truth, there we are short of good and substantive ideas. i claim that the time we take to approach this issue seriously has not been lost. in the meantime we will work on the eastern partnership; we will strengthen the relationships with our partners in the region; we will increase our support for cross-border cooperation and we will make sure that now, after the lisbon treaty, the european union will be playing a more effective role in regional cooperation.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the joint debate on the report by anneli jäätteenmäki, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the negotiations on the eu-azerbaijan association agreement [2011(2316(ini) ] (a7-0071/2012) and the report by tomasz piotr poręba, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the negotiations on the eu-armenia association agreement [2011/2315(ini) (a7-0079/2012).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not going to tell you. i am glad that negotiations are being opened with azerbaijan and armenia. i am glad that both countries are of strategic importance and that energy policy is not the only reason. they are also of high strategic importance for other reasons. i believe that we should help them to develop a sensible economic policy, to do more for the rule of law and democracy, because this is the crucial basis for a better life for people, for economic and social development and also for peace. the minsk group's achievements in all their elements, including the right of self-determination, are of great importance in this respect. i think that both sides must act constructively on these issues to ensure that this is the case. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. and the european union could have a balanced relationship by creating a balance between the countries, by having the ability to talk to both sides, and in this way it could crown the neighbourhood policy with a success, a solution to this 'frozen' conflict.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, let me make three remarks, the first of which is a general one. the negotiations on association agreements with eastern partnership countries are making good progress. a few weeks ago, the first association agreement in the region – the one with ukraine – was initialled. four other negotiation processes are well under way, and we have recently decided to launch the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement component with three countries. we stand ready to consider taking a similar decision on azerbaijan as soon as it joins the world trade organisation, and we are indeed ready to assist in any way we can. secondly, i agree with you that the european union has a number of core interests in armenia and azerbaijan, as well as in the region at large. i also agree with those of you who made the point that this is not about the competition between those two countries, nor is it about the debate on who is – or who is not – more important. all partners – large or small – are important to me and to my colleagues, and should be important to the european union. these interests relate in particular to security and stability. democratic reforms, energy and investments – those are the core interests we have in that region. i believe that the association agreements, once in force, will be one of our most effective and valuable tools in promoting a number of core european union values, as well as in promoting economic integration and enhancing the mobility of citizens. thirdly, i am glad to see that the european parliament has also played an active role in closely monitoring the situation in the south caucasus, and, in particular, i am glad to see the progress that has been made in the negotiation of the association agreements. in recent months, you have adopted reports on the negotiations with moldova and georgia, and today on the negotiations with two additional countries. all included valuable recommendations and reflect the strong interest of the european parliament in the implementation of the decisions of the prague and warsaw eastern partnership summits. finally, let me assure you that i am committed to engagement. i am committed to progress that is beneficial to the people on the ground. the vacuum is what i will continue to fight.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 19 april, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions under rule 150 of the rules of procedure.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too thank the rapporteur and, like my predecessors, i welcome this regulation which we are voting on today. the european single market also brings many benefits for workers. but unfortunately, loopholes in the law on cross-border mobility have often been exploited. an example of this - and it has been mentioned by some previous speakers - is air transport. the routes were deliberately designed so that aircrew were often insured in the member state where social security was cheapest for the airline. this has distorted competition and is wage and social dumping, which is always done at the expense of the workers. that is why we, as european social democrats, have been campaigning for aircrew to be covered by social security and to pay their taxes where they are stationed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations.
in writing. i congratulate mr milan cabrnoch on his excellent report, which was unanimously adopted by the committee on employment and social affairs, with one abstention. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in the eu internal market, crossborder mobility is increasing, but national legislation is not yet keeping pace. the social security systems must be better coordinated! the report has already provided clarifications on the law on posting and on unemployment insurance. a breakthrough has been made for flight attendants, which is particularly important to me as a member of the house from frankfurt. my amendments were adopted, which make the home base the legal basis and thus the sole criterion for the application of social law. an airline whose flight attendants are based in germany must apply the local social law and may not change social security contributions or undermine conditions for the establishment of works councils. this is to close loopholes which could be used to circumvent higher social standards. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the social market economy includes adequate social standards. the price competition must not be carried out at the expense of the crew, who bear a high responsibility for the quality and safety of a flight. the cabrnoch report is therefore also in the interest of passengers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask a question based on a concrete example: the large construction site in berlin-brandenburg, the airport, has a system whereby each worker can only enter the site with an individual id card, so that it is possible to ensure that the posting of workers directive and the corresponding german legislation are actually complied with. the operator allowed 300 of the 6 000 workers to enter the construction site without these rules. the result is that these 300 workers are the ones whose wages are being dumped. that means those 300 didn't get their pay. they didn't get paid for their work! the example shows that the system of limiting the controls of the member states which you have in your proposal leads to the exact opposite, namely social dumping. my question is: why do you not want to give the member states the freedom to carry out the checks on construction sites independently and thoroughly? why do you want to limit them?
i'm not going to tell you. i was not satisfied with your answer. in article 9 of your proposal you have listed the measures that member states may take. that means you're going beyond the original regulation. the original regulation left it to the member states to carry out the checks as well and as efficiently as possible. the moment you list them, you limit the controls. and then the same thing happens that i told you about in berlin. this means that many workers in europe are losing their wages. you can't be responsible for that! the question i have to ask is: why are you interfering with the member states' powers of control in your article 9?
your majesty, on behalf of all the members of the european parliament, i welcome you to strasbourg. it is certainly a great honour for us that you are visiting the european parliament for the third time today. it's a sign of your friendship and trust. your majesty, a little over a year ago, the arab spring began in a hopeful way. the desire for democracy, social justice, the rule of law and freedom of expression has proved to be a universal desire on more than one occasion. you, your majesty, have chosen, unlike any other wise man, to heed the call of the jordanian people. you have put your country on the path of political and economic reform. we, the european representatives, want to be friends and partners with the jordanian people in this phase of transformation. we want to support you in both profound economic reform and genuine political opening. in your address to the jordanian people on 12 june 2011, you called for the holding of parliamentary elections, with the participation of representative and active parties, which would result in a government based on parliamentary majority. we welcome your clear commitment to the principles of parliamentary democracy and the rule of law. it will be a bulwark against despair, against disappointment, against extremism and against violence. naturally, your speech has raised great expectations among the citizens of your country. as friends and partners, we will support you in turning words into deeds and in fulfilling the promise of reform. for europe, jordan is a country with which we feel deeply connected by friendship. your personal commitment, particularly in recent weeks, to mediating between israelis and palestinians, to bringing both sides back to the negotiating table, has confirmed to us that we see in you an ally in the struggle for diplomacy and democracy, for peace and freedom. your majesty, we look forward to your speech. (applause from the centre)
your majesty, thank you for your speech, thank you for your words. i think the applause of the members of this house has shown that there is a great deal of agreement between what you have presented to us as your line and what the european parliament sees in the context of cooperation not only between jordan and the european parliament but also in terms of the role that your country can play in the whole region and which we believe is crucial. this is also reflected in your words, particularly when you once again referred to your role as mediator between israel and palestine. thank you for coming. we appreciate your words. i would like to reiterate what was also reflected in the applause: we are very much counting on you and your country to develop a peaceful, economically sustainable, democratic and socially just development throughout the region as the basis for cooperation between europe and the middle east. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i too voted for the report. the proposal aims to update regulations 882/2004 and 987/2009 at regular intervals to ensure adequate coordination of national social security systems at eu level. the main reason for this constant updating is also the acceptance of eu citizenship by our citizens. one sign of this is the increase in mobility. the citizens of the european union perceive these as places of work and residence, and it is no longer unusual for people to change their place of residence and work between member states. i think solving these problems is a positive challenge. that is what this report is trying to do. and i also want to emphasize that this will not be the last update of the report.
in writing. − i welcome the development and adaptations brought about by this legal text, because it is in the european internal market's own interest to improve the crossborder mobility of workers. the commission has also proposed that the rules on the posting of workers should be simplified and clarified so that they are not too cumbersome and that the rules on the posting of workers are not too cumbersome. it is also good that selfemployed people are better protected against unemployment when working across borders.
in writing. - in yesterday's plenary vote on the annual report on the situation of human rights in the world 2010, i voted for the full paragraphs 93 and 101, respectively, and therefore against the epp position. i am very concerned that women in crisis regions should be given general access to public health care, medical education and appropriate educational programmes. unfortunately, rape of women in violent conflict is often used as a weapon against the entire population. i am personally, like many of my colleagues in the epp, opposed to abortion on principle. in this report, however, we have not voted in principle on access to health services, but have discussed in a differentiated way the possibility of abortion after rape in war and conflict situations. i consider the dignity of women to be the overriding objective which i wish to achieve by my voting behaviour.
the next item is the statement by the president of the commission on 'measures to cope with the economic crisis, particularly in the eurozone'.
president of the european commission. − mr president, honourable members, during our previous debates we agreed that the financial and economic crisis can only be overcome if we combine financial stability and fiscal consolidation with measures that generate growth and jobs. the economic situation in europe does not allow for any complacency, and we must continue to take the necessary steps not just to ensure stability but to build sustainable growth and job creation. i am therefore grateful for the opportunity to formally present to you today – immediately after their adoption by the commission – two concrete initiatives which address issues which we have discussed at length and where we are in agreement that significant measures need to be taken. first, as part of the effort to tackle the single biggest social challenge which we face, the commission yesterday adopted an employment package. i have previously reported to this house on some of the targeted measures we are taking, such as support for small and medium-sized enterprises, the youth employment initiative and the commission action teams, which are working in member states facing a more acute situation in terms of youth unemployment. the communication adopted by the commission today takes an even broader, structural perspective. creating jobs across europe and meeting the europe 2020 employment target requires the concerted efforts of all actors. the communication therefore puts forward a range of actions at all levels. these include proposals to maximise the job-creating effects of the european union budgetary instruments and policy guidance on supporting job creation, especially in areas with great potential such as the green economy, health care and the ict sector. these are just a number of labour market reforms. at the heart of the communication is also a desire to remove obstacles to a genuine internal european labour market. creating such a market will require action from national governments but also – and i will insist on this – the full involvement of the social partners at european and national level. while the communication can take us a long way towards reinforcing the conditions for job creation, implementation on the ground is very much in the hands of the member states. i would urge the member states to move forward quickly and take the necessary steps at national level to help foster such conditions. the second communication we have just adopted is about growth for greece. again we are all in agreement on the need both to ensure that greece delivers on its commitments and to support greece and its people. the great efforts made by the greek authorities and the greek people in recent months in taking the measures necessary to secure the second programme open the way for this communication. the set of priority actions it proposes ranges from promoting youth employment to tax reform, from investing in education to smart regulation. these actions, if properly implemented, should quickly unblock growth, create jobs and mitigate the social impact of the crisis. beyond this, with the determination on the side of all the greeks and the full support of the european union, we can transform greece for the better. i would like to tell the greek people that we shall succeed together. there have been many calls for greater solidarity, for a kind of marshall plan for greece. let us recall that the assistance provided under the marshall plan amounted to around 2.1% of the gdp of the recipients. the total package of assistance to greece, if we consider the funds, grants from the structural funds, the loans and the write-off of private debt, is equivalent to 177% of greek gdp. yes, almost twice the growth greece can generate in one year. this is a very visible symbol of the solidarity which lies at the heart of the union. this shows that we are acting and making an enormous effort to help greece stand on its own feet. we will continue to do so. honourable members, we have learned from the past. we cannot have growth mainly fuelled by debt or imbalanced growth where one sector expands to the detriment of others. growth has to be built on the foundation of competitiveness. it should be socially inclusive and environmentally sustainable. let me give some examples of how we are moving the growth agenda forward in europe. firstly, the single market: further releasing the full potential of the single market. this is probably the largest engine for growth in the european union. it gives european business unfettered access to other companies and half a billion consumers and allows them to develop the scale to compete globally. getting the most out of a properly-functioning single market is indeed economic policy par excellence. this is why the commission has been working for the past two years to put an enhanced single market at the service of the europe 2020 objectives. so it is incomprehensible that member states are still not fully implementing the growth-friendly legislation we already have in place. full implementation of the service directive will produce immediate results and boost the european economy by 1.5%. the single market infringement rate in europe is still too high. again, if member states are ready to move, this can deliver results fast. the commission will present a range of ideas for improving single market governance and filling the implementation gap ahead of the june european council. of course, we also need to continue our work to further enhance the single market, and indeed to complete the single market. the commission, as you know, has presented the single market act, and i again urge member states and this house to play a constructive role in ensuring that the laws are adopted and come into force quickly. this is the only way for our smes and for our consumers to enjoy the full benefit of the single market. i would like to confirm to you that later this year the commission will put forward the single market act ii to further advance our efforts to unleash the full job and growth potential of the single market. at the same time we are working hard on achieving the digital single market. secondly, there is – and it is important to be reminded of this – the international dimension of growth. our external policies need to focus on access to those markets in the world that are growing faster. we now have a free trade agreement with korea which stands to bring us eur 18 billion in additional trade, and similar agreements are being negotiated with a number of strategic partners, including india. but let us not stop there. the united states is our largest economic partner. our trade relations are the most extensive in the world, with a value of almost eur 450 billion in 2011, and we have invested over eur 1 trillion in each other’s economies. any further gains, including by reducing non-tariff barriers, will be significant for both sides. we are exploring ways in which to broaden and deepen these ties. in the global economy, the size of your market and the strength of your currency will determine your ability to compete, your capacity to shape the global economy and also your future prosperity. there is no strong economy without a strong currency. there cannot be a strong europe without a strong euro. it is therefore no surprise that those who oppose a strong europe also do whatever they can to undermine the euro. our europe 2020 strategy has a breadth of vision and a depth of substance which goes far beyond any one narrow perspective or single course of action. it also has the flexibility to adapt and throw up new ideas and, indeed, be the basis for a new european initiative for growth. in this respect, investment is key. investment at european level is vital, especially at a time when there is little fiscal space at national level. of course the multiannual financial framework is one of the main tools for delivering the europe 2020 strategy. it is a tool for investment, growth and job creation across the whole european union, from our capitals to our most deprived regions. so let us make it clear that we are for investment and for growth. that is why we need the mff, and that is why we need in some cases to frontload some of the investments. by investing in infrastructure, networks and research on a european scale, the european union channels resources that help to complete our internal market, increase our efficiency and support the sustainability of our economy. i believe that, to boost growth, some of the investments must be frontloaded. this is why the commission has proposed pilot project bonds, which the european council agreed in principle in march and which i would like to see on the ground as soon as possible. it is also why today i would like to recall that, as i have already mentioned in this house – on 28 september 2011, in the state of the union address, to be precise – i am in favour – and the commission is in favour – of an increase in the capital of the european investment bank. moreover, with our proposals for a financial transaction tax to contribute to the budget, we are also making clear that this budget is not only a budget for investment but for solidarity. it is also a question of fairness, and fairness is important for the support of the reforms that are needed in europe. our strategy must ensure a fair spread of the benefits and burdens which reform will bring. it must be inclusive. the current crisis has thrown into sharp relief the question of social cohesion. the commission and i do not believe that the european social model is dead. we believe that it is an essential part of our social market economy. at the same time, the crisis we face is not just a fiscal debt crisis, it is also a crisis of competitiveness. it is an economic crisis. in order to sustain our social model, we need not just to pursue fiscal consolidation but also to regain our competitiveness, which is key to sustaining our social market economy. let me also tell you very frankly that i do not understand how it is possible that, at this especially difficult moment for europe – while we have in some countries and many regions a real social emergency and an increase in social difficulties and, in some cases, in poverty – some governments in europe are now calling for cuts in european programmes such as the globalisation adjustment fund and support for the very poorest in our societies. as i have said before, discipline must be accompanied by convergence and responsibility matched by solidarity. i can see that we are not doing enough in terms of solidarity at european level. − monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs les députés, nous devons montrer notre détermination face à ceux dont l'objectif n'est pas toujours l'intérêt de l'union européenne et de l'euro lorsqu'ils critiquent notre stratégie de sortie de crise. nous devons montrer notre confiance en ceux qui portent l'essentiel des efforts alors que nous réformons nos économies et mettons de l'ordre dans nos finances publiques. ces réformes sont importantes. ces efforts sont essentiels. il s'agit de tourner la page sur des pratiques qui ont été très fructueuses pour quelques-uns mais très coûteuses pour tant d'autres, notamment les plus vulnérables dans nos sociétés. nous ne devons pas céder à la tentation de relancer nos économies sur la base d'un stimulus budgétaire qui créerait une fausse impression de croissance durable. ce serait un retour aux erreurs du passé avec leur lot de conséquences que nous subissons depuis des années. nous devons conclure la réforme du secteur financier et, à cet égard, la commission a déjà présenté des propositions pour éloigner le spectre de la spéculation et de la création de nouveaux risques, afin que ce secteur retrouve pleinement sa vocation fondamentale qui est de servir l'économie réelle et de couvrir les risques économiques existants. pour renouer durablement avec la croissance et créer des emplois, nous devons maintenir le cap que nous nous sommes fixé. nous ne devons épargner aucun effort dans la mise en œuvre des éléments de la feuille de route d'octobre dernier qui est notre stratégie de sortie de crise. un des piliers de la feuille de route concernée – rappelons-le – est le renforcement des pare-feu pour la zone euro. nous avons maintenant un accord qui renforcera les mécanismes mis en place pour soutenir les états membres en difficulté financière et qui entreprennent des réformes qui sont tout aussi indispensables que difficiles. je vous rappelle que le mécanisme européen de stabilité disposera d'un callable capital (capital appelable) de 620 milliards d'euros, supérieur à n'importe quelle autre institution financière internationale. sa capacité de 500 milliards d'euros est presque équivalente à celle du fonds monétaire international, lequel s'occupe du monde entier. d'ailleurs, rappelons aussi – parce que certains ont tendance à l'oublier – que les états membres de l'union européenne sont de loin les principaux contributeurs au fonds monétaire international. mais, là encore, il ne faut pas être complaisant. la commission et moi-même restons convaincus que, pour assurer une véritable discipline budgétaire et une convergence sur la zone euro, il faudra une mutualisation de la dette publique. par ailleurs, la mise en œuvre du travail sur le semestre européen se poursuit. cette année on aura pour la première fois une vision intégrée de la situation des états membres, notamment avec l'inclusion du mécanisme pour la correction des déséquilibres macroéconomiques. les états membres sont en train de soumettre leurs programmes nationaux de réforme et la mise à jour de leur programme de stabilité ou de convergence. en mai, la commission présentera ses recommandations par pays (country specific recommendations) fondées sur son analyse de ces programmes. je peux vous assurer qu'il s'agira d'un travail sérieux de la part de la commission qui s'appuiera sur une approche véritablement intégrée. maintenant, grâce à vous également, nous disposons d'instruments que nous n'avions pas dans le passé pour ce genre d'exercice. la commission n'hésitera pas à mettre les états membres devant leurs responsabilités pour assurer les réformes pour la compétitivité et une croissance inclusive et soutenable. il est clair que la situation reste difficile. il est clair que les autorités nationales et nos concitoyens font des efforts considérables. mais nous avons quelques exemples positifs montrant que ces efforts commencent à porter leurs fruits. par exemple, la lettonie a prouvé qu'il était possible de mettre en œuvre un programme très exigeant de consolidation budgétaire et de renouer avec la croissance. nous constatons aussi une première relance des exportations en irlande et au portugal. il y a donc, effectivement, de grandes difficultés mais il y a aussi certains progrès. il faut nous appuyer sur ces progrès. notre travail ne sera pas facile. mon message n'a jamais été complaisant. je ne vous ai jamais dit que la crise était derrière nous. notre travail conjoint doit se poursuivre avec acharnement et sérieux, cohérence, soutenabilité, persistance et détermination. nous savons que c'est un travail de longue haleine sans solution magique, un travail pour garantir l'avenir de notre économie sociale de marché, un travail pour garantir le rôle de l'europe dans le monde et pour répondre aux besoins et souhaits de nos citoyens. telle est l'europe que nous voulons. telle est l'europe pour laquelle nous luttons. (applaudissements)
question for the commissioner: the commission is not mr daul, you are right. i've been listening to you. what you are proposing, namely to provide for a growth test for all expenditure in parallel with the subsidiarity test, is to narrow the objectives to growth. i would like to know how you reconcile this with the claim of a christian-democratic group which, after all, has goals beyond growth.
we'll put it in the record that georges marchais was your friend. i think that's news in this house.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not despite mr draghi's refusal, i would like to say again that i was very pleased to have him here. i thought it was a very good idea for the conference of presidents to be held because i think it is overdue that we should be discussing directly vis-à-vis each other whether the european central bank's policies are in line with the european common crisis strategy. we have praised the ecb on several occasions in recent years for having, with its actions, saved not only the euro, but in some situations probably the whole of the european union from worse. but have we been politically careful enough about what the european central bank has done? has the council made good use of the time it has bought? a trillion euros have flowed into european banks under draghi. what was to happen to this money? this money should be used for the real economy, and it should be used to buy government bonds in the crisis countries. i have found that only a small part of it has been done. why would you do that? i have found that the time that the ecb has bought so that we can make better policy in europe has not only gone unused, but has been used counterproductively. the whole theatre surrounding the european fiscal pact, which was once again magnificently staged at the last summit, has led to us not making proper use of the time we have bought, the time we have bought with a trillion euros. in view of the dramatic reports from southern europe - we are no longer talking about the small greece and the small portugal, but we are talking about large countries, large economies such as spain and italy - i believe that the reports from there will no longer allow us to continue on this one-sided, fanatical austerity course. i welcome the programme you and commissioner andor have now presented, but before i praise you further, i should like to say once again that some of the demands we have been mantra-laden about over the last year have not been met. i agree with mr verhofstadt's assessment. the esm needs to grow. we do not have sufficient financial resources in the esm. efsf or esm need a banking license. we must be able to intervene in the markets in a different way and we must not continue on this austerity course. it cannot be that if public debt is not the triggering moment of the crisis, austerity alone is the solution. on the programme you have presented today, we have long been convinced that we have an anti-recession policy, that we need to stimulate sustainable growth. i do not know whether you can do that, mr barroso. i do not know what i can trust the european commission to do at this point. i would be very interested, for example, to know what timetables you are actually following so that i can assess for my group whether it is really still in time in greece, italy, spain, portugal and other countries in crisis.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not gentlemen, it should be common knowledge that the economy does not produce children, does not raise them and cannot enable them to live in a pristine environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we as a group will examine very carefully whether what you have put forward this morning is in fact a change of priorities. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. the first thing to do was to reorganize public finances, i.e. to reduce debt and to keep the markets calm. i would like to say to mr daul, who is unfortunately not here today, that i would agree with georges marchais. i did not understand his answer, but i would disagree with him. the measures that have been taken have been wrong. it was not right to focus exclusively on the economic recovery and to ignore completely what is happening to people. it was not right to put the stability of the euro above everything else and to say that we do not care what happens to people. it must be the other way around. first of all, it is about people, then we can continue to talk about the stabilization of the euro. the speculative attacks on spain have brought the interest rates on spanish government bonds to over 6% and above, and thus also close to the interest rates at which other countries such as greece, portugal and even ireland have benefited from the assistance of the rescue fund. the austerity policies imposed on member states by the eu, the ecb and the imf, with drastic cuts in public spending of all kinds, from reducing wages and pensions to raising vat and much more, have put the burden on citizens and have not prevented the renewed spiral. rigorose's cuts in government spending are exacerbating the downturn, driving up the debt ratio of states, and that must be our shared understanding. if mr draghi recently said 'the european social model is over', then i would be glad if you, mr barroso, would say 'no, we in the commission do not think so'. i also expect you to go to greece, to send your people to greece, portugal and ireland and to record exactly what is happening there. what happens to the people who are currently struggling to survive? what are we doing together to finally break the suicide spiral that has just begun in the most indebted countries? we can't just stand by and watch. we do not benefit from social programmes which will eventually take effect when other measures have been taken. we must act now! what is the status of your 2020 poverty reduction strategy? what has become of the european poverty platform? she was put aside. that was before the crisis. but now, in the midst of the crisis, people need help, support and action from the european union. they don't need empty promises. we need concrete ideas of what to do now. if you do, you will have the support of my group. i would like to ask you to support all those who, within the commission as well, have clearly recognised the signs of the times and want to change things. but please don't just go on like this and say it's gonna be okay. it's not gonna happen if it keeps going like this! i ask you to put forward a concrete project, a programme, on how we can now really help the people in the affected countries. do something about it. we will have to do it in our countries so that the funds for the esf in 2013 or 2014-2020 or for the other programmes are not blocked or cut. the member states must take their responsibilities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. mr president of the commission, i agree with your statement that the heavily indebted countries can only get out of their predicament if growth and austerity are combined. some of the things you propose, such as infrastructure projects financed by the eib, can indeed improve competitiveness and thus contribute to growth. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. such additional financial injections would, at the end of the day, create a bonfire at the end of which we would have nothing but even higher debt, even higher unemployment and even higher inflation. we saw this in germany in the 1970s when helmut schmidt tried to do just that. we don't have a cyclical problem, we have a structural weakness. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. unfortunately, i see too little of this in the countries concerned. we must complete the internal market, including the services sector, we must open up closed markets, we must make the labour market more flexible and we must cut red tape. all of this can be done without any extra money in hand, and it would still lead to growth.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i sometimes wonder what you, who sit here so persistently, take away from such discussions with us. mr barroso is gone, i cannot ask him any more. the council is not here, so there's no need to ask. but i ask you, who are responsible for different areas in the commission: what do you take away from this discussion with the european parliament on a very serious matter which is now determining the welfare of our people in the member states? i'll tell you what i'm taking with me: i have a problem. whenever your services write to you that we are not moving forward because growth is falling, that employment is in a bad way, you get something written about employment and how to increase it with relatively non-binding measures. i've read all this a hundred times. in the last 12 years, i've read what's in here a hundred times. the people who actually run the pen, commissioner rehn, are in your departments. and they believe something else. they believe that we must drive the countries of southern europe into an adjustment recession. these are the hard facts of the stability and growth pact, these are the hard facts of the fiscal pact, and these are the hard facts of the wrong policy of conditionality. until you resolve this contradiction and actually write a page of concrete measures on how to get investment back up, people will not understand you. i don't understand you either! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not first of all, i would like to say to the honourable member that the countries she has mentioned are only supposedly not having any problems. read the data on the netherlands. then you'll see that growth is going down there, too. when the germans read the statistics, they know very well that they are very much dependent on it. the fact that it's also making progress in the south is a temporary phenomenon. it is hardly to be expected that germany will be able to maintain its exports in the long term without a functioning eurozone. so yes, we must get to a situation where demand in southern europe is also being boosted. we must create new jobs, make sensible investment projects, and do everything we can to ensure that we do not organise a decline for the next 10 or 20 years.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the current state of public finances and the economy in europe leaves no room for a fairy tale tax policy. the situation in the council is simply that there is little progress on tax policy proposals. why would you do that? because some countries are against further tax cooperation. they benefit from aggressive tax planning, they are tax havens themselves. the treaties clearly stipulate unanimity in tax matters. this is why the eu commission has repeatedly failed to deliver on its proposals in the past. they are watered down, there is no progress, as with the interest rate directive, and in the case of recent proposals nothing ambitious has been proposed in anticipation of compliance. i therefore ask you, mr šemeta - i know your job is not easy in this respect - to change your strategy, put forward strong measures and then commit to increased cooperation to end the deadlock in the council!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the presidency of the council has told us that it will be working on 15 may to ensure that there is a european mandate for the commission to negotiate. i like that. that's right! we can then measure how far the european commission is getting in its negotiations with switzerland and others. but it is also true that colleagues say that we should rely on enhanced cooperation where it can help us. ask the german and french governments why they haven't done this long ago. why they always make big words at home, but don't take the initiative. that's something. and also answer publicly the question why the us is obviously much more successful in its bilateral efforts and can exert much more successful pressure, for example on switzerland, than the german federal government, instead of just saying it's okay what it does. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr kovács, of course you can express your personal opinion. but if you are here as rapporteur for the committee on industry, you have to represent the decision of the committee on industry and not your personal opinion if you do not have a unanimous result. mr president, i would ask you to ensure that the rapporteurs of the committees respect this internal regulation. otherwise, the fact that they are given speaking time for rapporteurs outside the group's speaking time cannot be justified.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we should stop pretending that we can save the world every time we meet in strasbourg. and again we have a proposal on the table, and again we save the world, the climate, the resources and what have we, although we have done this elsewhere. it's unreasonable to do the same thing over and over again. i therefore say very clearly: it makes no sense - the commissioner has said it - to impose an additional tax on air transport where we have a functioning and hopefully soon international emissions trading system. it is not worth including shipping, which has ideal alternatives, in the tax. it is not worthwhile to make a compromise between energy density and co2 emissions. excuse me if i'm a little bit of an engineer and say that higher energy density means less co2 emissions per mile. it is just as bad to punish this context twice. that 's why i say: the commission proposal is not well-developed. the majority vote against the epp in the economic affairs committee makes something that is not well understood even worse. there is not the slightest chance of unanimity in the council of ministers. that is why we in the european parliament should be honest and say: we reject the report. we reject the proposal. it is uneducated, it is useless, and there is no better way to save the world than through taxation.
question for the commissioner: i just wanted to ask mr lambert if he would consider making members of this house - from whatever country, from whatever political group - feel that their political work is based on honest motives and refraining from making defamatory and degrading remarks in the future.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the basic orientation of the commission proposal and the econ report on the energy tax directive would allow a uniform treatment of all energy sources by 2023 through a technically neutral approach, with a minimum tax rate for all traded fuels and electricity related to co2 and energy content. at the same time, incentives would be created to use lower-emission energy sources for the transition to a low-carbon economy. the proposal for a directive would provide three major tax incentives: first, to reduce co2 emissions; second, to save energy; and third, to promote a shift towards more energy-efficient fuels and greener energy production. the alignment of diesel fuel with petrol taxation could put pressure on the automobile industry to develop more energy-efficient engines. in britain, the taxation is already high. the eu's objective of a minimum taxation level is to create a level playing field for all.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what do düsseldorf and dortmund, herten and essen, arnsberg and würselen have in common? the spd meps from north rhine-westphalia live there. in north rhine-westphalia, people hear from mrs kraft that the spd wants to protect and promote industry, the industrial site. at the same time, these members from dortmund, düsseldorf, essen and other places will be voting here for a massive increase in the price of diesel fuel. germany and europe are world leaders in this energy-efficient and environmentally friendly drive technology. the consequences of this increase in prices are clear: rising prices, falling domestic demand, and a threat to technological leadership and industrial location. if this is social democratic industrial policy, then good night north rhine-westphalia, good night germany, good night europe. it doesn't make economic or ecological sense. if we accept the rising price of petrol, which is already at a record level, we will be hampering the growth of domestic demand, which is what the social democrats are constantly calling for. it doesn't make any sense ecologically either. we all know that diesel cars travel more miles on less fuel than petrol cars. i therefore call on the social democrats to consider tomorrow the consequences of their vote for the people, for the consumers, for the motorists in germany and europe. it is high time that the spd commits itself to a success-oriented economic policy - not just on election posters, but in concrete political action.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my dear colleagues! you will have noticed from mr lambsdorff's speech that this is not a debate on the substance of the matter, but on the election campaign in germany. i can only say that for a party which is on the political defensive, such a discussion with many false arguments may be a way of regaining the upper hand. but it doesn't matter what the facts are. in germany the situation is such that the government, which is led by mr lambsdorff's party, is already charging a tax on diesel which is above the future minimum tax rate. we have a minimum tax rate in germany of 33 cents at the moment, which would be raised to 41 cents, but already now the german government is charging 47 cents. so, immediately, nothing would change at all. so it is wrong to say that the price of diesel fuel will go up to astronomical levels tomorrow. the second point is proportionality, ladies and gentlemen. we social democrats have always said that there is no such thing as an unconditional principle of proportionality. that is why we have tabled amendment no 15, because that is exactly what we said. we cannot let the taxation of diesel engines ruin it. we social democrats have put this forward, the econ committee has decided this. but what happens now? it is clear that the reason why the liberal and conservative colleagues are so distrustful of their own governments is that the determination of the absolute tax rate is still a matter for the national governments. the mistrust is so great that they say: if that happens, then our governments, which we carry, will raise the diesel tax. i can therefore understand why people say that this distrust should lead to a rejection of this proportionality. and if you have such a high level of mistrust, then i think it is right to reject proportionality. and one last thing: if all of a sudden everyone is a diesel-friendly person, then i wonder why these governments are not moving to change the tax on co2 in motor vehicles, and thus clearly create an advantage for the low-consumption diesel engine. they can do it now, without europe. get on with it!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr langen has already mentioned the arguments on the merits. what has happened in the debate and what is happening in the german media is, frankly, unfair. the central point is that this directive leaves the member states to a large extent free to determine the level of taxation of diesel and petrol. it essentially establishes a ratio. only the tax havens and the tank tax havens will have to raise their taxes effectively. germany is free to increase or not the rate of taxation on diesel. i am sorry to say, mr lambsdorff, that you are a friend of europe, as i am. but to ignore the fact that germany itself sets the rules is a shame for europeans and ultimately creates a europe-concern in germany, instead of contributing to a factual clarification of what is actually on the ballot.
question for the commissioner: mr seeber, a question: are you not aware that we social democrats put forward a proposal in econ in which we pointed out precisely this problem namely that industrial policy problems could arise here and the co2 reduction strategy for cars is being called into question and that this proposal was also adopted in econ?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to draw attention to the fact that the european commission lacks the thread. we have adopted measures in 2008 and 2011 with strict requirements for cars and for small trucks. we have thereby promoted diesel technology, which can produce much more fuel-efficient engines and has made progress. we have asked for the engine to be economized. now it's being counteracted. the question is not whether this is below or above in germany, but whether it is to be artificially raised, but this leads to new distortions of competition. we are the leader in diesel technology. it is not a question of the automobile industry association, nor of nuclear energy in russia, but of whether we are on the one hand imposing on the economy we represent here, which will lead to tangible successes, significant energy saving measures, and on the other hand taking them away. that is a contradictory policy. the european commission is responsible for this, and i hope that we will reject this policy on this point tomorrow, commissioner, by a clear majority. the council of ministers is rejecting it anyway, as all such attempts have failed for the last twenty years. this attempt will also fail, and i wish the commission the same, because it is contradictory and lacks a clear concept.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 19 april 2012, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the report by danuta maria hübner, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 as regards certain provisions on risk-sharing instruments for member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability (com (2011) 0655 c7-0350/2011 2011/0283 cod) (a7-0067/2012).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the risk-sharing instruments proposed by the commission are welcomed by us greens. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we believe that investment in the real economy is also the sure way out of the crisis in greece. we would have liked to have agreed to such a financial instrument. however, the way the amendments to the regulation are being made does not guarantee that these investments will be of a high quality, since they do not ensure sustainable development or stable jobs. in the end, the changes in the regulation simply mean that the existing motorways are being built on. we want to see that such wrong planning is now reconsidered and that the investments, the risks of which are borne by all citizens, are really sustainable investments. that is why we cannot agree to this proposal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. the present proposal on risk-sharing instruments will certainly not prevent a state bankruptcy where it should occur. but doing something is still better than doing nothing. exceptional situations sometimes require extraordinary measures. the budgetary and debt crisis in some countries has created such an exceptional situation that important projects and measures under cohesion and structural policies can no longer be implemented because the banking sector is failing as a financier and private investors are no longer available. i see an exceptional measure in the present proposal to create risk-sharing instruments for the refinancing of projects in the field of structural policy. cohesion and structural policy funds available to countries wishing to use these sharing instruments may be used to provide financial cover for projects already under way. i am very grateful to the rapporteur, danuta hübner, for having contributed greatly to the clarification of the commission's proposal and for having once again clearly indicated when and how these instruments should be used. i also believe that these risk-sharing instruments should be based on the present situation and should not prejudice the future funding period.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 19 april 2012, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
in writing. greece needs targeted investment to get back on its feet in the economy, infrastructure and renewable energy. the european cohesion policy has the means to do this. but to implement our projects, we need the funds of private investors. however, these are currently not receiving the bank loans they need because banks generally consider investments in greece to be too risky. i therefore think it is right to use part of the funds we have already allocated to greece to cover such loans. the banks can be sure of getting their money back later, the investors can get their loans and thus participate in eu projects, which will create several thousand jobs in greece. the report also has the advantage of being very efficient in the use of scarce funds: by using the funds only to hedge risks, we can generate more investment than if the money were put directly into projects. finally, the report makes the following clear: the european union is standing behind greece, and private investors can count on it too!
president of the council. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. i thank you very much for the opportunity to speak here on the occasion of the european parliament's consideration of this important matter and this important question. i would like to focus on some of the more general considerations which i believe the draft agreement raises. i will leave the more technical aspects of the agreement to commissioner malmström. as you know, the issue of the exchange of pnr data between the eu and the us has been on the transatlantic agenda for many years. at the same time, we have continuously gained new insights into the importance of the use of pnr data for the prevention and fight against serious cross-border crime. in my view, there can be no doubt that pnr data is a very important tool for law enforcement authorities in their response to serious crime. we have a number of concrete examples of this. however, this does not mean that we should not make demands on the authorities who want to use pnr data. the protection of the privacy of our citizens should always be a major consideration in the prevention and fight against serious crime. this is true, of course, whether it is the authorities of the eu or those of third countries with which we have close cooperation in the fight against crime. the draft agreement in question contains a number of new and improved safeguards - safeguards which the us authorities have undertaken to respect when processing pnr data. the agreement is not 100% perfect, but the us authorities have gone to great lengths to accommodate us in a number of key areas. the agreement is therefore, in my view, the best possible outcome under the circumstances. let us also bear in mind that the agreement we are discussing here today does not mark the end of the transatlantic dialogue on the use of pnr data. i would like to conclude by expressing my great appreciation for the readiness of the european parliament to fight for the interests of the european citizens on many occasions. few cases illustrate this more clearly than the agreement we are now voting on. there can be no doubt that the improved text of the agreement before us today is the result of the european parliament's very strong desire for renegotiation. that is why i would urge you to support the conclusion of the agreement. in this way, you will not only ensure that european citizens and airlines obtain better protection of their rights and interests, but you will also help to send a clear signal that the european union is capable of achieving tangible results after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. at the same time, we will be able to show the world that the eu institutions are united in solving difficult problems.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission recommends that parliament give its consent to the new agreement for three reasons. firstly, because – as the minister said – the law enforcement authorities need pnr to address the security threats that the us is facing. secondly, because this agreement is a major improvement to the existing agreement that is now running and which you asked me to renegotiate. thirdly, because it is difficult to see any alternatives which would better serve the interests of eu passengers and air carriers. with regard to the necessity of pnr data, the commission has presented evidence to members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) on several occasions. it shows that pnr data is important in fighting terrorism and a major tool in fighting drug and people trafficking. for example, pnr has played a pivotal role in cracking some recent cases of terrorism – the mumbai plotter david headley, the new york city subway plotter, the times square plotter – and we have all read about the atrocities that could have been perpetrated in these cases. secondly, this is a major improvement to the existing agreement from 2007. it is a clear step forward from the draft agreement that the commission presented to the libe committee in may, where we asked your advice. in that regard we did a good collective job in pushing the us to make further concessions. this is a good example of how the new lisbon treaty works: the three institutions working together with very clear signals from the european parliament and the council so that the commission could be very clear in its negotiations with the americans. this good collective work brought more clarity, stronger reciprocity and a better protection of passengers’ rights to privacy, without undermining the effect of the pnr system and security on both sides of the atlantic. it also reflects the concerns that you expressed in your resolution two years ago and respects fundamental rights and the principle of proportionality. let me outline some details of this agreement. the agreement, unlike the current one, is one single legally-binding text written in ‘proper treaty language’. it strengthens reciprocity and security on the eu side by obliging the us to share leads derived from pnr data with the law enforcement authorities in the eu. it sets strict limits on the purposes for which pnr data may be used. this is a concern for many members, as i am aware, and i also heard the objections by the rapporteur. i would therefore like to read out the declaration on behalf of the commission:‘the commission considers that the agreement sets forth a precise description of purpose and scope, clarifying the purposes for which pnr will be collected and used. the definition of terms and the detailed description of the uses of pnr in article 4 ensure that the purpose limitation of the agreement is in line with relevant eu laws on the protection of personal data and privacy. the purposes for which pnr can be collected and used are limited to the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and certain transnational crimes.’ the agreement provides, in article 4 (1), the first detailed definition of the terms ‘terrorist offences’ and ‘transnational crimes’. article 4 (2) of the agreement allows for the potential use of pnr on a case- by-case basis for the protection of vital interests of any individual, or if ordered by a court. these uses are, both by their nature and in view of the experiences we had in the joint reviews, very exceptional. in article 4 (3) the agreement clarifies how pnr may become relevant when passengers travel to or from the us. in this regard the agreement merely clarifies that pnr may, in accordance with its scope and purpose, be processed to identify persons who require further examination. this does not constitute a further purpose for the processing of pnr data. article 4 (4) explains that the agreement is without prejudice to domestic law enforcement, judicial powers or proceedings, where other violations of the law of indications are therefore detected in the course of the use and processing of pnr. this provision aims to clarify that domestic powers are not affected by the agreement in cases where other offences are detected in the course of using pnr. this clarification does not affect or extend the purposes for the use of pnr. in the context of the joint review and evaluation mechanism set out in article 23 of the agreement, and without prejudice to other matters that might be raised in this mechanism, the commission will seek detailed information and pay particular attention to the respect of the provisions of article 4 of the agreement. more specifically, the commission will review respect of the uses of pnr under article 41 of the agreement and request information on any cases in which pnr has been used, either for the protection of vital interests of any individual or, where ordered by a court, under article 4 (2) of the agreement. the commission commits to keeping parliament fully informed of these and other aspects and to presenting a full report to parliament and to the council, as foreseen by article 23 (3), without delay at the end of the first joint review and of other subsequent reviews. if, following the joint review, parliament states in a resolution that there are serious deficiencies in the application of the agreement and calls for the suspension or the termination of the agreement, the commission commits to considering parliament’s political request with the utmost attention while deciding on whether to make a proposal, in full respect of the procedures and competences defined by article 218 of the treaty. having examined the scope, let me return to some other points. the agreement reduces the retention period for which pnr data may be stored by us authorities from 15 to 10 years for serious transnational crimes. only for terrorist offences would the data be used for 15 years as under the existing agreement and – an important new element – pnr data will be depersonalised six months after it is sent by the carriers, making those data elements which can be linked to an individual passenger invisible. there are also important safeguards on data provisions. in order to prevent illegal profiling, in particular, the agreement prohibits automated decisions affecting passengers. a human being must always take the final decision. new rules on data security are included to prevent data being lost or disclosed to the public. the agreement clarifies and strengthens passengers’ right to access, correct and, where relevant, delete the pnr data stored in the us databases. it also contains a detailed provision on administrative and judicial redress under us law. the rules on sharing onward transfers of pnr data have been tightened. this can happen only on a case-by-case basis, not in bulk, and only for the specific purposes of the agreement itself. the agreement is very clear on the method by which pnr data can be transferred: all air carriers must transfer data by the ‘push’ method within two years. the aviation industry has assured the commission that air carriers are prepared to make the necessary investment in that timeframe. ‘pulling’ of data by the us authorities will not be entirely prohibited, but the conditions governing this are precisely defined and limited to exceptional cases. in the current agreement, ‘push’ is not the norm. now it becomes the norm. ‘pulling’ is very exceptional and its use will be logged and, of course, checked thoroughly by the commission. finally, there are provisions to ensure that the agreement is correctly applied. several bodies from within and outside the us department of homeland security will have independent oversight over it. we will have regular joint reviews and a full evaluation after four years. in order to make this effective, there will be records and logs of processing of pnr data. there are also clear rules on the resolution of disputes between the eu and the us and on suspension and termination of the agreement. i recognise that many members still have questions and think this is a difficult decision. i fully respect that and am ready to respond to all your questions. this is an international agreement. like all international agreements, it is not 100% perfect. we have to give and take. the commission has presented to parliament and the libe committee a draft agreement from may. there you gave clear instructions on where to make changes. we went back to the us and achieved a lot of those changes: on purpose limitation, scope, retention periods and other points. we now have an agreement that fully respects eu law. this brings me to my final point, on the absence of better alternatives. further negotiations with the us are not a real option – so what will happen if you vote it down today? what will the consequences be? it would be damaging for the transatlantic relationship because this data will be collected anyway and we would lose a very important chance to influence us policy on the use of that data. secondly, we would leave the air carriers in a very difficult situation because they will be required to transfer the data, but there would be no legal basis in the eu for this transfer. so this would leave us in legal limbo, with potential lawsuits by passengers and a very difficult situation. finally, and most importantly, we would fail to protect the interests of the more than 48 million passengers flying from the eu to the us every year. in the absence of the agreement, there would be no binding international rules to protect the passengers’ privacy. one cannot exclude the possibility that there will be bilateral agreements with the us between our member states, but i do not believe that the member states could bilaterally obtain a level of protection of passengers’ rights that goes beyond what we have achieved today. for all these reasons, i ask you to endorse the new agreement today.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her very dedicated and exemplary work. i can share, support or have supported some of the criticisms sophie has made in the field. but there always comes a point when you have to take responsibility. i therefore take it for the epp, and myself, that we must now deal with the realities and cannot retreat to ideological or theoretical positions. the fact is, the u.s. has been collecting this pnr data for ten years, and there hasn't been a single complaint. the fact is that we all don't want traffic to stop, even if we have a negative attitude. you'd just done that. the fact is that we do not want air traffic between europe and the united states to come to a standstill. it's also a fact that the united states has a right to know who's coming into their country. i also think that the legal services have all said orally that this agreement is better than the alternatives. that's why you have to take responsibility here. we're elected to do this, too. responsibility for the citizens who would otherwise be left alone and with fewer rights and protections. the commission has also taken the view that the commission should be given the responsibility for airlines which would otherwise be left in absolute legal uncertainty. the commission has also taken responsibility for the eu as a contractual partner in data protection and security issues, but also responsibility for a balance between security and data protection. that is why we are all in favour of agreeing to this agreement, even though it is not perfect. if we want to protect citizens better and if we want to give them better data protection, we also accept this responsibility and agree to this agreement. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (2) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. firstly, we always want to have a legal basis. of course, it's an unfortunate situation at the moment that this isn't going the way we would like it to go with canada. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. of course, this too requires a proper foundation. so it is perfectly right that we need a foundation. we will do our best to do so. we are not even locking ourselves up against legal grounds in this case. we have to wait and see what the negotiations with canada will ultimately produce. we are waiting for that, and that is why we will then also work to ensure that this becomes the appropriate basis and includes a corresponding legal basis.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the european court of human rights, just a few metres from here, delivered a landmark judgment about the relationship between law enforcement interests and the human right to family and private life some three years ago. in marper v. the united kingdom, the court of first instance clarified that the unwarranted collection of personal data in government databases without clear evidence of necessity and without the narrowest boundaries is unlawful. two years ago, just a few kilometres from here, the german federal constitutional court ruled on the retention of telecommunications data and concluded that an obligation on private companies to store personal data for no reason, even for a few months, can only be justified in the most exceptional circumstances. the european parliament has refused to vote on an agreement which clearly does not meet these criteria. in a resolution we made it clear that a retention of data for up to 15 years is not proportionate. we have also made it clear that the use of such mass data, stored for no purpose, can only be done within very narrow limits, such as in the case of terrorism and organised crime. we have also made it clear that we cannot allow any kind of profiling of information. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. it is not just individual data that are accessed, but all of them are processed. this is the principle behind this measure: a grid search that automatically matches all the information from all travelers to the united states with hazard profiles. we must be quite frank about this: this is a clear breach of european law. i have to ask the conservatives and social democrats in the european parliament: are you not ashamed? aren't you ashamed of your obvious violation of the law? and do you really think that the members of the us congress would be as committed to fighting for the sovereignty of our laws? this is absurd! the question is not whether the united states can decide for itself what measures it will take or not, but whether we as europeans will give it legitimacy or not. i have to be honest, we can't legitimize that. the european parliament, after 10 years of debate, will be disappointed to see this agreement, which still contains the same provisions, approved by a large number of citizens. i can therefore only advise you to save the honour of parliament by voting 'no'. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. thank you for asking. of course, the fight against terrorism and organised crime is a necessary objective and, in my view, an important measure which we must pursue as the european union and also together with the united states as a close partner . there's no question about that. the question is, can this be achieved by mass-analysing data from many unsuspecting individuals? or is it not rather that we need more cooperation in suspicious investigations, cooperation between police authorities in suspicious situations? we are going in the wrong direction: spending more and more money on analysis centres, on data centres, where more and more unsuspecting people are analysed, while on the other hand cutting funding to police officers on the ground who are working on suspicious investigations. it can't be. and we must discuss this more fully in the european parliament.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not ladies and gentlemen, the gue/ngl group will vote against this agreement because it undermines a fundamental right of eu citizens, namely the right to the protection of personal data. mrs malmström, i can only shake my head at what you have said. they are chasing an imaginary security which does not exist and which will not exist with this agreement and no other agreement of this kind. it is not just a matter of a few travel data of european citizens, but that in combination with other databases that have already existed, profiling is possible, of course, and thus the monitoring of citizens. we reject this agreement because there is no sufficient evidence - including what you have called, mrs malmström - of the benefits of this agreement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data on the european union's citizens are not used for illegal purposes. we reject it because the use of this data goes far beyond the purpose you have mentioned - the fight against terrorism and serious organised crossborder crime. there is an opening clause in article 4 which we will have to discuss. there's an opening clause that expands the scope considerably. it is impossible to agree to this agreement because the processing and transfer of pnr data, including to third countries, is being transferred to an authority, the department of homeland security, which is totally beyond parliamentary control, which cannot ensure transparency, an authority in which the secret services are handing over the keys to the door. we reject the agreement because the retention period for data is contrary to any notion of adequacy and proportionality, and even sensitive data can be kept for 30 days and possibly longer. this is a scandal! it is absolutely impossible for us as a group to agree to it, because there is no serious legal challenge. it is ridiculous what is found there under appeal! there is only a limited right to information and there is no right to appeal even under a regular data protection law. that's not possible. the appeal is hereby declared inadmissible. and i would say to mr voss, and to the members who are here to vote in favour, that if we care about our own eu treaties, we must reject this agreement. this, mr voss, has something to do with responsibility, namely responsibility for the citizens of the eu.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not could the honourable member please specify his statement? what does he mean by islam being a hotbed of terrorist attacks?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we should all admit to each other that we are all struggling with how to keep data protection for our european citizens. we should also take seriously what mr watson has emphasized in his short speech, namely that the fight against terrorism is a matter of common concern to us, and that the people who witnessed the terror in toulouse must also play a role in this house. both arguments need to be weighed. the epp group is clear that the united states of america is our partner in this fight against terrorism, which is a global challenge. we see the united states as a partner and want to work together with them. i believe that we are playing this role-play - the americans are the bad guys, the data collectors, and we europeans profit from the analysis results, which they provide to the european authorities - and we do not want to play along. we want to live up to our responsibilities together, and that means that we europeans must act. each state has the sovereign right to regulate how one enters its territory and what data is required for this. just as we are discussing it with canada and australia, we are now discussing it with the united states. the current treaty provides for greater legal certainty. and all those who vote against the treaty will have less legal certainty. that is the alternative that is being put before us today. i would like to thank the commissioner specifically for making it clear that europe is stronger together, that we can achieve more as the european union than 27 states negotiating individually. the epp is committed to partnership with the americans and so i can take a look into the future. that is why i also ask the americans to remain in these negotiations, to take seriously the european offer that we develop global standards for data exchange and data protection. if we europeans and americans can fix it together in a framework agreement, then there is a chance that we can create global standards. this would be a real added value for our european citizens. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. my dear colleague, every investigator who works in the fight against terrorism will tell you that in an investigation, it is never a single set of data that will be decisive, but the overall picture that you make. it's the question of how terrorism is financed. it's the question of who a terrorist has telephone contact with. that's why we're discussing the data storage. it is also a question of the profile of the movement of a terrorist or a potential threat. the big picture is. i never said that just one data set will lead to a result. but i said that on the one hand we have the privacy interests of the citizens, and on the other hand we have to weigh here just as much what power or what data we have to give to the investigators so that they can do their job, which is to prevent terrorist attacks in the future. that's something to consider. this is something that must be respected by those who today deny that they have access to certain data. that's all i said. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
question for the commissioner: i respect your opinion, mr weber. but if i consider that you say that we must of course conclude such agreements with third countries, i wonder how you will respond to the requests from saudi arabia - and soon also from china - who may ask in a similar way, if the americans get this information, why don't we get it too? why do we not also get it legitimized by the european parliament? how do you react to the fact that these countries may also want to see further measures legitimized by the european parliament? we are not going to be able to do that. does it matter whether it is compatible with european law or not?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i would like to thank mr albrecht. when i talk to investigators, they tell me that we could not have solved a lot of terrorist plots in europe if we had not had the partnership with the united states. that's what investigators tell me. that is why i say that the united states of america is a partner of europe in the common fight against terrorism. if i believe the united states is a fair partner, i'll be happy to sit down with them and negotiate a treaty. this is not a free pass for all the countries of the world. if you're suggesting that we equate the united states with china as a partner, that's your position, but not mine. i see a partner in the united states. i believe that this treaty, which we have before us, will empower the commission to look to the americans in the future to see what they are doing with this data and whether the rules of the game that we have agreed on are being implemented. i want a strong europe. but i also accept the united states as a fair partner who wants to fight terrorism with us. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. unlawful? this question can be assessed politically. you disagree with me. if we look at the treaty, we have an organisation which has the right of initiative in negotiating a treaty, which has the means to evaluate that too, and that is the commission. the commission's legal service has declared that the contract is in order. that is the legal situation. if others disagree, if colleagues, member states, governments in europe disagree, then they are completely free to go to the ecj and have it look into this. this is our legal system. i have no problem with that at all. but to suggest that one is speaking against the law, even though the commission's legal service says that is all right, is going too far. i would rather ask myself how you would react if we rejected the proposal today, because you want to explain to the citizens that we are in principle in a free-trade area, and that the united states of america is negotiating directly with the airlines and possibly with the states. how can you make it clear to the citizens that there are no rules of the game in this data exchange issue? that is the question that is on the table today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we as liberals do not take it easy when we have to make a decision on this issue. for us, it's a process of deliberation, and we follow reason and argument, not dogma. we are the only group in this house to reserve this right. we are aware that legal certainty, legal clarity and also the question of clarity of the wording are crucial, so what is in this agreement and what will be the decisive points for us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the wording is not clearly defined. we are known as a group for putting freedom first, individual freedom. security is always the servant of freedom. it's never the other way around. a key element of this context is responsibility. our responsibility is to protect the interests of our citizens and to bring about a balance. we believe that this agreement does not do that, and i think that by rejecting it we are making it clear that we will defend ourselves against the erosion of freedom and responsibility.
question for the commissioner: i have one more question to put to you, mrs foster, because you said that the passenger data, the pnr data, is quite basic information, so there is not much information. are you aware that with the api information, basically, some of the basic information is already being transmitted automatically? all flight information is automatically transmitted worldwide to determine who is on which aircraft. are you aware that the pnr information even includes what i buy with my boarding pass at the airport, that my credit card information is included, that it contains a lot of information about my flight behaviour and that the analysis includes more information?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union has been working on the issue for some time, and it is not just the european union that is concerned. but terrorism alone is no longer sufficient to justify this data collection to the public. that is why we are talking about serious crime, organized crime and we are debating today about human trafficking - millions of data sets with only a few successes to be named. but data protection has improved, says ms malmström, referring in particular to the fact that some data will be stored for only 10 years. data protection starts earlier, however, with the specific purpose or limitation of the data to be collected. but what happens to the text of the agreement which is to be voted on today? millions of records of mostly innocent citizens, reviewed over and over again for almost any purpose for at least 10 years, with varying criteria. other crimes, however, carry a three-year prison sentence the federal government says on its website: travelers to the usa must bear in mind that for offences for which there is not even a trial, a multi-year prison sentence can be expected in the usa. the penalties must be cross-border. according to the text, it's enough if the suspect has the intention to cross the border. we all want that when we travel to the united states, because we already have our return ticket in our pocket. in addition, any court may request such data. better privacy policy? in view of the wide scope of the application, the possibility of data being transferred to other authorities and to third countries is more than a concern. it is also regrettable that the proposed evaluation has not yet included the participation of data protection officers. i do not want to talk about the fact that in the united states people are repeatedly arrested on suspicion of terrorism and are imprisoned for several years without being formally charged. sometimes it happens to innocent people. terrorism must be fought. but this text goes a step too far. we are putting all citizens under general suspicion, we are handing them over to the us justice system instead of protecting our values and the rights of our citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. no, no one should be ashamed of their decision today. but i am deeply concerned about the direction we would take with a decision on this agreement and i am therefore against this agreement from the bottom of my heart.
question for the commissioner: rui, what alternative do you see if we don't have this agreement? then we have a data collection in the united states that is uncontrolled, and we most likely have the freedom of the citizen to stand in a queue. that is why i do not understand these arguments, how can one say that the citizen is suddenly worse off here. he'll have trouble when he travels to the united states. it is also only for travellers to the united states, and it is supposed to be a simplification for the citizens and not a degradation of these trips.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner malmström, i have great respect for your efforts to improve the agreement. but i think the agreement in its present form is not good enough. in fact, i could now follow up on my predecessor. of course, you want to know who someone is and what they want when they come into your house. but you don't want to store data for a long time that other people can access. commissioner, you said, for example, that after six months the data would be de-identified. that's right, you're right. but you just said that's not gonna happen for six months. we have to take into account many concerns. it was also said that the data would be collected anyway. that is not a reason for me to sign this agreement. there have been no complaints so far, mr voss said. that's no reason to sign the agreement. we're not in such a hurry. in negotiations with the united states, many things do not happen at the same level. i know about the air transport agreement with the united states. we agreed to it, even though it was unequal, because it brought us economically forward. but in this case, i think i can agree with renate weber: better no law than a bad one!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. risk communication tools can improve private sector participation in financing major projects in crisis-affected eu countries to safeguard jobs and growth. this means that member states request that part of their allocation of eu regional aid be transferred to the commission and then used for risk sharing. the allocation of cohesion fund resources and the medium-term financial planning are not affected. i think this is a good thing and i see this as an opportunity. i would just like to ask that we and the commission ensure that a risk-sharing instrument does not become a risk-shifting instrument. this means that we must ensure that the private sector's involvement is based on a solid foundation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the passenger information agreement because, quite simply, an agreement on data protection and legal certainty is better than no agreement at all. the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the data are not used for other purposes than those for which they were intended. the vote against the agreement leaves citizens and airlines alike in a fog of legal uncertainty. it would be a complete mistake to think that without the agreement no data would be transmitted. we can only set the framework for data protection standards, and that would have been much lower without the agreement. that is why, as i have said, i voted in favour of the agreement in good conscience.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to say, in my honour, that something must have gone wrong here, because i had tried to register this declaration of vote electronically. i think this one was lost. i don't know why. i'll make it very brief in the next. i agree with my colleague kelly on this point by 50%, but i voted in favour of this report simply because i wanted to help to open up the debate. we want a single market, we want people to be able to move freely, and we want businesses to be able to move freely. this is not just about the tax rates in percentage terms, but also about the tax base and the basis for calculation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is adapted to the needs of the individual member states. i think that we have already started the debate on this point, and i think that this is a very important story.
in writing. − i have agreed to this voluntary agreement as it represents a first step towards a sustainable and valuable timber industry in this african country. wood and its products are the number one economic and commercial factor in central africa. this makes logistical and agricultural support all the more important in order to ensure a high level of conservation, reforestation, logging plans, etc. the eu is the right partner for these actions.
in writing. - i have agreed to this dossier, but i will be watching closely the further development of the matter. it is questionable whether anything meaningful can be derived from the resulting data graveyards other than costs. the current agreement significantly improves data protection for our eu citizens compared to the status quo, but it is far from optimal. the 'agreement' is a difficult concept anyway, because the united states does not let itself be talked into its national security or its sense of security. the easiest solution is not to travel to the united states.
in writing. - let me be clear: tax harmonization in the eu on fuels is desirable and important. think of the unfortunate tanker tourism. but the very useful debate was overshadowed by the introduction of the so-called principle of proportionality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the excessive use of fossil fuels. the commission's plans would lead to a drastic increase in the price of diesel fuels, putting the more environmentally friendly diesel engines at a disadvantage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action on its own. i am very pleased that the european parliament, on the initiative of the epp, has now abolished this principle of proportionality. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. the report was amended to ensure that the tax on diesel was not increased. this is a fundamental factor in order not to hinder the further development of diesel technology and to give commuters a chance at their jobs. the socialists have now agreed after a long debate, which i very much welcome. this is a clear signal to the council and the commission from parliament. i am glad to be in the majority of those who are in favour.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the future of the european court of human rights is being debated and decided this week in brighton. there is no doubt that some of the reforms planned will strengthen the european human rights system. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter. the progress outlined in the draft 'brighton declarations' cannot, however, conceal the fact that the uk is seeking to use its presidency of the council of europe to massively weaken the influence of the court. if, as planned, national courts are given greater discretion in interpreting the european convention on human rights, this threatens to soften the case law. within europe, different human rights standards could prevail. in addition, the planned reforms seem to be aimed at reducing the possibilities for citizens to bring individual complaints to the european courts. the member states are therefore called upon to oppose this attempt to weaken the human rights system as a whole. the european union has also committed itself to join the echr under the lisbon treaty. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the negotiations.
question for the commissioner: mr casini, would you agree that when the eu joins the court of human rights, it must also work to equip the court in strasbourg better? we know that the judges are completely overworked and are less well equipped than the judges in luxembourg. the eu should - and i ask you if you agree - ensure that they have the same working conditions, the same standards, the same equipment, because then we can also hope for good judgments. would you be in favour of parliament and the eu supporting better equipment for the court of justice in strasbourg?
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. when the last amendment to the biometric passport regulation was made in 2009, it called for a review after three years and for four studies to be submitted, and our group supported this. the commission has repeatedly raised serious concerns on the grounds of data protection and the overestimation of the use of biometric data in passports. the belief in perfect identification, the overestimation of this means and the consequent underestimation of other links in the security chain are really problematic. the handling of biometric data is still subject to this great error, namely the assumption that it is unchangeable and most trustworthy. that's not what this is about. this data, too, is subject to change over the course of life. they look different in children than in old age. therefore, reliable and serious studies and conclusions are necessary. the counterfeiters are still diligent. we have now seen this. as events in britain and elsewhere have repeatedly shown, the chips are not safe from abuse. they are happily cracked and can cause permanent damage to those affected. standards within the eu also vary widely. the error rate is very high, as in france and the netherlands. the question must be asked again and again: what use is there for biometric data when documents are forged and put into circulation? so if one link in the chain is fake and the source documents are inconsistent, then biometrics might not be of much use. the chaos computer club in germany took only a few minutes to demonstrate a forgery. to do this, the chaos computer club needed the lid of a plastic bottle, a second hand glue, a digital camera, and some wood glue, and in a matter of minutes, they had cracked the chip! so much for supposed safety. we expect the commission to present the studies and, of course, the results and the consequences that follow.
author. − madam president, i very much agree with the criticism that my colleagues have already expressed and i want to ask the same question about what stage this evaluation has reached, and whether it can solve the questions that we have raised and answer our concerns, such as the issues of ‘breeder’ documents and the falsified documents and biometric passports in france and elsewhere, because this is really undermining any usefulness of biometric passports. furthermore, biometric passports also have fundamental rights implications. it has just been ruled under french constitutional law that parts of the french biometric passport law are unconstitutional because law enforcement agencies and state authorities have access to fingerprints. fingerprints are seen as very sensitive data because you can leave them without intending to do so. that of course calls into question whether this will be applicable in the member states. we have also seen elsewhere in the eu that law enforcement agencies and authorities are trying to get access to fingerprints even when all these questions have been solved, there will still be the issue of whether it is really necessary and useful to collect all the biometric data of people who travel, and for what purpose we are collecting those data. we will have to see whether the costs of such biometric gathering will actually be compatible with any use that we get out of them, and whether the costs are appropriate and comparable with their usefulness. i do not think under any circumstances that we should collect more and more biometric data and expand the use of biometric data before those concerns are clarified and before the commission can prove that they are actually verifiable and that there are no huge problems and errors in collecting the data, as we heard with regard to children, older people, etc.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on:- request for an oral reply to the council on the delimitation of less-favoured areas in the context of the cap reform (o-000070/2012 b7-0110/2012) - request for an oral reply to the council on the delimitation of less-favoured areas in the context of the cap reform (o-000071/2012 b7-0111/2012) [2012/2606 (((rsp) ].
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not my dear council! i am not going to go into detail. it is most surprising that we should be asked to decide on the future of the common agricultural policy, but are deprived of the necessary decision-making criteria. there is no reason why we should not redraw the boundaries of the lessfavoured areas. it is also acceptable to try to limit this to fewer criteria than before. but if we limit ourselves to eight criteria, which are composed of climate and geology, we cannot take away the possibility for members of parliament to check whether these criteria are suitable at all. we need maps of the redistribution of the lessfavoured areas to check whether redistribution according to the eight criteria makes any sense at all. the fact that the maps are not available now, however, clearly raises doubts as to whether it is desirable to allow the european parliament to take part in the decision-making process. as a farmer, i have serious doubts as to whether such a division of land can be properly determined on the basis of these simple criteria. finally, there are other criteria which may also create disadvantage, such as lack of infrastructure, access to the labour market and general historical company structures. furthermore, different combinations of different criteria can lead to very different results. it is high time that the commission's proposals were evaluated objectively so that they could be improved if necessary. otherwise i will join with those who want to exclude the lessfavoured areas from the current debate on agricultural reform.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european council as for the impact maps, i could say: if it weren't so serious, the play would be slowly becoming a cabaret. they are really saying in all seriousness that there are member states which report maps to the commission, but at the same time they say in the council that this is not for publication and not for transmission to the european parliament. you can't understand that! i have always believed that the sum of the member states constituted the european council. is there a two-part process here, where the commission gets maps which are then kept secret? i just can't figure it out. i think that a confidence-building measure would be for us to at least have the maps of the member states which are available to the commission. this is the best-kept secret in the european union, getting these impact maps first. they're trading like hotcakes, like very expensive stocks. this can't be true. i think the disadvantage of the commission's proposal is that it is not just about the physical character of the soil, but also about the soil's capacity to produce. and we must not push unification in the european union to the extreme. the conditions in the european union are far too different for that. i therefore urge that we discuss the lessfavoured areas once again in a calm and objective manner, without any time constraints. that means that we should not do this in the context of the agricultural reform, but in a separate report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's not about who's right. i am simply concerned about the farmers concerned and their families and their incomes. and we should take the time we need to discuss this problem properly and decide. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
question for the commissioner: mr president, i would like to ask you, mr president-in-office, whether you agree with me that the system of criteria which the commission has now established for the promotion of lessfavoured areas is a system which is upsetting to the whole of the undertaking? you yourself - if i read this correctly - were a young farmer in mecklenburg and worked in the crisis area and gained your first experience. only grazing land, 20 ground points, and a situation that these are really disadvantaged areas. i would therefore like to ask you: how do you actually see the impact, especially on our farmers in the less-favoured areas?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. maybe the reason the maps are such a secret is that things could easily come out that you can't really explain with common sense, with professional practice. for example, i recently had a group of visitors from the eifel region: the same conditions, the same agricultural expectations, the same soil values, and suddenly half the region is no longer disadvantaged. it is not possible to explain this, and it is not possible to conduct european policy in this way. i think that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i simply ask for transparency and honesty.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this is a disregard for parliament by the member states and we should not allow ourselves to be deceived. it's time we responded accordingly. we're being asked to make a decision about something we don't even know the implications of. this is a strange game. i find the situation in germany particularly strange. we do not get maps from the german government, but they are given to us by the german farmers' association. there must be something wrong. we shouldn't let anyone else do that to us. i believe that we need uniform criteria in europe. i have serious doubts whether the biophysical criteria alone will suffice. we need socioeconomic criteria to be able to measure everything fairly. it's gonna take more work. it is not possible to simply put a map of europe on the map and judge all the regions equally. that is why i am calling for a very serious debate to be held next week in the committee on agriculture and for this to be made public and transparent and not be held behind closed doors. we shouldn't be allowed to do that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the issue of compensation which we are dealing with today is a very important issue for our farmers in the affected areas. i would also like to say this: compensation is a success story in european agricultural policy. they have helped to maintain the agricultural land in these areas, to preserve the cultural landscape in its biodiversity and to preserve the jobs of the people in these areas. it has given people perspectives in these areas. the commission's approach to this sensitive subject, and the council's approach, is all the more incomprehensible to me. if we look at these eight biophysical criteria, we see that we get new inequities that are much worse than the current system, in which there are some delineation problems. we'd have a system that's unlikely to cause much trouble. it has been leaked from germany that 2.8 million hectares would be lost and 1.2 million hectares would be added. when i talk to farmers from these areas, they are surprised that they are suddenly in a disadvantaged area. we are hearing from france that a region there is to become a disadvantaged area where farmers have the highest average income. it doesn't all add up! i ask the council whether it is prepared to work with parliament in the spirit of the lisbon treaty so that we can come up with better proposals. i think that we as a parliament should provide the council and the commission with some copies of the treaty of lisbon so that they can finally understand that this treaty exists. apparently, many people haven't noticed. i would like to make one further suggestion, since the whole thing is already quite ready for a farce, as my colleague peter jahr has said: we should declare the area where the commission and the council meet as a disadvantaged area because they withhold more than 66% of the information.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. very good advice! the commission is not as well represented today as i would have liked out of respect for parliament. as a member of parliament from a region which is massively affected by the planned changes, namely the eifel, i have followed the debate closely and now i have to ask myself whether the unfortunately inadequate attempt to standardize the criteria for disadvantaged areas really meets the needs of this region, especially since the information necessary for a sensible and responsible decision is not available here. i am particularly concerned about whether an adequate impact assessment has been carried out. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore ask the commission to reconsider this important aspect with the necessary time, detached from the overall package of cap reform and, above all, after presenting the necessary documents and a careful analysis of the impact on the criteria.
a writer. the commission has already done so. there is a very great uncertainty among consumers when they go into the store and see a product that is locally produced. nobody knows what that means. is it really locally sourced, or is the yogurt that is declared as locally sourced perhaps made with milk that was once driven a thousand kilometres? is this what we want as consumers? it is time we understood what is really behind the term 'local-generated'. many citizens would like to know. not because they want to be food nationalistic, but because they take climate and environmental protection seriously and say, these natural products that i buy today don't have to come from far away, if they can be made right at my doorstep, and i would like to prefer them. these are the things that matter. we want clarity so that the mature citizen can also make mature decisions. what does it mean to be able to make a mature decision? that means getting the information you need to make that decision. these are things we need to sort out. in fact, the european commission has begun to think about it. i would be very grateful, commissioner, if we could know when we can expect the european commission to take action. when will we be able to put forward legislative proposals to give citizens an answer to these pressing questions? it's not about stopping products from coming in from other countries. i always look forward to the delicious products from spain that i can buy in germany, because they cannot be made in germany. but there are also products that are made locally. it is about making sure that the public knows where the product comes from, what the quality of the product is, and that there is not always a guess at the mystery behind it: how do we interpret this? what does this seal of approval i see here mean? does it really matter? does it really mean anything? we want to have this legal certainty for our citizens.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission is following with great interest the discussions and developments concerning local products or locally produced products in the member states. at the level of the european institutions, the discussion on local products and local agri-food systems has been opened up in various forums: in the parliament, in the council, and in the context of the 'quality package' and the reform of the cap. in its opinion of january this year on local agri-food systems, the committee of the regions calls for a new european instrument specifically designed to select and promote local agri-food products. the commission services have therefore launched several initiatives, including consultations with member states and stakeholders to better understand the issues of short supply chains, a study on short supply chains which is in preparation, the creation of an expert group within the sacg to advise the commission on short supply chains and local products. the commission also launched the 'quality package' and undertook to analyse this issue. the work has begun. if necessary, and if the participation of the european union is justified, we could put forward a proposal. the commission will also organise a conference on 20 april on 'local agriculture and short circuits' which should provide more answers to the questions that producers and consumers have about local products. as you say, mrs gebhardt and mrs corraza, there is no definition of the terms 'locally produced' or 'local products' at the level of the european union. as a result, it is not possible to answer consumer questions about the distance, quality, production method, ingredients and origin of the products. where appropriate, it is for the member states to define these terms. in accordance with european legislation on food information to consumers, clear and correct information must be provided by producers and traders to avoid misleading consumers. in addition to the initiatives i have mentioned, the results of which will be taken into account, the commission services are continuing to analyse the issues of short circuits and local products. the aim is to determine the merits of additional action at european level to meet consumer information needs. as regards the risks to the functioning of the internal market, any action by the member states must be in accordance with the provisions of the treaty, in particular, of course, those relating to the free movement of goods and services.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not - i'm not sure. i am not going to go into detail. i am very grateful to mrs corazza bildt and the other member for raising this issue. there are certain uncertainties. but a hundred years ago, it was almost entirely local production and marketing in the surrounding area. today we have a completely different situation. i have an interesting report from the federal ministry of agriculture in germany which refers to exactly what the commissioner has just said: that it is already possible to address regional windows, regional origins, at national level. it says , and i quote , the federal minister for agriculture, ilse aigner, is planning to launch a regional food labelling scheme in germany at a summit of the federal states in april. she says: i will now present a first concept for a new regional window on food packaging. the aim is to ensure that regional products are clearly and transparently labelled. firstly, the labelling should be voluntary and the origin of the product and the main ingredients transparent. it's also interesting what a survey has found. 79% of consumers are willing to spend more money on regional food, but only 17% feel confident about the origin of regional food. so here's the big problem. according to a survey, 83% of those surveyed in germany are already paying attention to the region from which food comes. but then comes an interesting statement: according to the minister, the introduction of the regional window does not require a new national legal basis or a notification by the eu commission. this means that the member states already have the margin of manoeuvre to act accordingly. nevertheless, the commission is called upon to provide greater clarity in this respect.
question no 69, by mr de gucht (h-l 387/85) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia today we are talking about the slogan: local farming, short supply routes, and i have a question for my colleagues: in the past it was common for our butchers to slaughter the animals themselves in the village and to market them themselves. we have developed a european hygiene regulation which now rules out this. in this context, should we not also look at regulations which prevent us from doing what we want to do?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. thank you very much, mr peter jahr, for your question. the commission has to consider whether we should not adopt other criteria. i was a member of the committee a few years ago, and i had to fight to keep a bavarian slaughterhouse in good condition. what did the commission official say over there? it's not a problem if it's closed. the nearest slaughterhouse is 40 miles away in austria. we cannot promote regional products with this kind of thinking. there is a need for a broad rethinking so that regional products can also be offered. we must therefore rethink some of the rules in the commission which help to make this no longer possible.
i have to say, madam president, i should like to begin by thanking the asylum support office, which is now beginning to provide serious and effective assistance in greece, particularly in the area which many colleagues have just called for, namely the establishment of reasonable accommodation for asylum seekers. the greek parliament has just decided that additional accommodation should be built to european standards, which is supported or should be supported by the european union, and ultimately also through the asylum support office. i think it is necessary and important that we do not simply describe the atrocities or the difficulties, but that we say exactly what we want to do, and that we do not demand that greece, in a catastrophic internal situation, should be perfectly regulated overnight, but that we also approach the country and its possibilities with a realistic scale. i think it is also sensible that a number of countries have suspended the return of refugees and will continue to do so in the future. secondly, i think it is very important to increase cooperation with turkey considerably. the commissioner has said that we are working to extend this. i think that the confusion between visa policy and return policy is extremely problematic. however, perhaps when it comes to visa policy, we could not just go for the larger picture, but really focus on students and similar issues, business people. perhaps this would also be a solution for those countries which may still be experiencing difficulties in this area. secondly, we should also agree on police cooperation in the case of return, because this is about fighting criminal traffickers who operate on the backs of poor refugees, and not about the conflicts we have with turkey over the substance of the matter. and i believe and hope that turkey is prepared to cooperate with the police on these issues. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i believe that we must also work in cooperation with the asylum support office and the greek authorities to identify more quickly those who have come to greece and who may indeed be transferred to other countries of the european union, because firstly they can never return to their home country and secondly they may also bring with them potential and qualifications that can be useful and useful for everyone. but the main thing is also to help the greeks to be able to register and identify more quickly in order to speed up the aid process, and to return to their home countries those who are not qualified or entitled to stay in greece or the european union because they have a chance of staying in their own countries.
madam president, indeed the problem in greece is a european issue too, which has to be solved at european level, for instance by reforming dublin ii and also by investing money in a greek asylum system. then again, the money can only be spent at the greek level, and there we see a lot of shortcomings which are also manifested in the implementation report on the greek national action plan. we can see that only 11 people have been recruited for the new asylum service out of 700 planned vacancies. in addition, it is only open on saturday mornings. that does not really help a lot. and the conditions in detention centres have only improved because there are now fewer people. but why should people who are looking for asylum be detained in any case? overall there are still lots of problems, and indeed it does not help if now in the election campaign migrants are being used as bait in elections and unhelpful remarks are being made. we should really try to help migrants together, to give them a decent chance for a life here in the european union, and not leave it up to the greeks alone. everybody has to do their share in this.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. iter is a long-term research project. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the idea that technology should be a thing of the past made me a little nervous. the reason why this is so is that the research of the last 30 years has not been so easy, because 30 years ago we did not have the capacity of computers and calculators that we have today, which we would have needed both in materials research and in dealing with high temperatures. this is why it has only been possible in recent years to make great strides in the development of iter research. if we are going to undertake major projects, it is necessary that they be set up financially from the outset. this is a learning process which we really need to do in a variety of ways within the european union in terms of projects. when we start projects, they must be accompanied from the outset by professional project management, precise and realistic - not just politically beautiful - cost calculation, precise controlling and professional tendering procedures, as well as project monitoring and monitoring, which will give us an overview of the actual costs in the short and medium term. this research project is a long-term one, it is not short-term, and for this reason i think it is necessary that we - after having looked at cadarache myself and having had other impressions than you, mrs durant - not only stick to this project, but also know the prospects for the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not going to tell you. i am not going to go into detail. the climate is changing. women are affected, and women can do something about it. and ridiculous is the debate only when we make speeches like those made by mr griffin. the report we have is important. we know that scientists and experts are looking for causes and solutions, and of course, opinions often differ. in all the different interpretations, we are certain of one thing: if we continue to consume so many raw materials worldwide, then the resources of this world will soon be exhausted. energy conservation is necessary in any case. climate change is not just affecting our environment. food and water shortages will increase economic anxiety, and social problems will follow. the report by the committee on women and climate change calls for greater involvement of women in this issue. because half the people are women. 70% of the world's poorest people and 80% of refugees and displaced people are women. it is important to involve women more in the fight against climate change through education and training. women play a very important role in the management of resources in the private sector. they control the base, they decide how and what is heated or cooled. and when you consider that half of the energy in our homes is being wasted inefficiently, there's also a huge potential for saving co2. women also lay the foundation for the wise use of our resources in the family and in the rearing of our children. their experience must be used, including in senior positions. if we want to change the world, we have to change it with women. the report identifies important links and approaches. but it should focus on the important issue of women and climate change, and not water itself down by taking on all the fundamental issues, like the debate on quotas or reproduction issues.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, congratulations to you, colleague gerbrandy. it is a very good report indeed, and it sets out guidelines for how we should behave in future in the legislative process and also in major reforms. the test of our ability will be when we discuss the agricultural reform together, as has already been made clear in many speeches today. we have the opportunity to really do something for biodiversity and to show other partners that we are serious about this. in 2001, the heads of state or government discussed the need to preserve biodiversity. we missed the target. that is why the window of opportunity is closing and we are called upon to act. but this is not just a matter of putting this strategy into the background, but the whole thing must be given real shape and concrete form in the fisheries reform and the agricultural reform.
i have to say, madam president, biodiversity, the biological diversity, is the basis of our life. we inherited this place. and from this comes our great responsibility to pass this heritage on to the next generation as intact as possible. it is not just about conserving biodiversity, but also about sustainable use. a successful conservation policy can only work in conjunction with agriculture. there are animals and plants which can only live in cultivated areas, such as the apollo butterfly: it can only live in a well-managed vineyard on the cliffs; in the wild it dies. the security of a high-quality, varied food supply and biodiversity: that is our goal. the present common agricultural policy already sets strict requirements for healthy, varied and sustainable production, always guided by the precautionary principle. we are in the middle of the discussions, and i agree with the chairman of the committee, mr groote, that the discussions must be about the cap, and we should not be pre-empting things here today.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all i agree with all those who believe that, basically, the major problem with taking care of biodiversity is insufficient awareness. i think that if we were to be frank and compare how many people today understand – even among us politicians – the importance of climate change versus biodiversity, we would be astonished at how many are aware of the success of the durban conference and how few are aware of the success of the nagoya conference – and by the way the nagoya conference was much more successful: it produced concrete agreements in the biodiversity area. so we all have work to do, when it comes both to europe and to the international environment. one of the things which will happen this year after rio will be a conference in hyderabad, which will also focus largely on resource-mobilisation and the things which were not entirely settled in nagoya. i would also urge you in the european parliament to help recognise this important issue, which needs to be addressed in the member states. on 14 may, a ministerial-level conference will be held at which we will try to ensure that this issue can be properly addressed. i think when we discuss the future there are basically three major core issues which we cannot ignore: one of course is climate change; another is biodiversity, and the third is the question of resources. when we talk about issues – and this is a typical one – i think that the longer-term view, the visions and the strategies are particularly important. as mr eckhart said, the importance of those decisions is that we do not make mistakes today, because if we do, we should not dream about the future. we need those decisions so that we do not take the wrong decisions today. one of the things that many of you underlined, when it comes to coordination among policies, is that if you asked today – to take a clear example – somebody who is an environmentalist: ‘what is the long-term interest in fishing?’, he would say: ‘sustainable fishing’. ask a fisherman what his long-term interest in fishing is, and he will also say sustainable fishing. so they agree perfectly. when it comes to the short term they would immediately disagree. one would ask for more fishing and another one would ask for less fishing. so i think it is very important that we keep an eye on those long-term agendas, and that we base them very much on the scientific knowledge that we should all create and develop. the fourth thing which i would like to mention is in the context of the common agricultural policy, because many of you have mentioned that. the protection of biodiversity is very much in the farmers’ interest – and by the way, again from the longer-term point of view, they know that perfectly well – and what we are suggesting in the proposals of the common agricultural policy is basically that they should deliver some kind of public good. in the case of other eu policies (for example water policy), they have to respect them, otherwise they will be punished by paying penalties later on because of non-compliance. we wish to pay them in advance so that they do not pollute or hamper biodiversity. that is the essence of the new common agricultural policy. working together: that is how we understand the mainstreaming or integration of policies. i should like to tell you some bare facts on soil biodiversity. it is widely recognised by scientists that about one quarter of biological diversity on the planet is hosted by soils. so the european commission, in its recent report on the implementation of the soil thematic strategy five years after its adoption, said that soil degradation continues in the european union, and soil biodiversity is not spared. these are the bare facts, and we in the commission believe that the best way would be to adopt comprehensive legislation to protect the soils. two slightly more specific comments. it is not the case that it is the eu which is determining natura 2000. natura 2000 is determined on the scientific criteria which we have all agreed together, and it is the member states themselves which then define the areas on the basis of those criteria. we then jointly check if they are correctly applying the criteria which we have jointly agreed upon. that is the procedure. by the way, i come from a country which has 36% of its territory protected under natura 2000, so if anyone does not believe that this has real potential for the future, i would invite you to visit my country in the future. the last thing that i should mention is connected to the last speaker’s comment. part of our strategy for the future is a strategy for invasive species; we recognise that. this is one of the six strategic issues that we want to address, and this year you can expect a proposal from the commission to address that issue. to conclude. the other day we were guests in denmark, where we met a farmer who was extremely successful. he told us that he was doing everything in cooperation with nature and respecting nature, and he said: ‘if you ministers want to remember just one message coming from farms today, remember that biodiversity and nature have had millions of years of experience of how to deal with the questions which we humans are struggling with, and we are stupid enough to destroy it and stupid enough not to use it’.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the report by mrs jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the review of the 6th environment action programme and the setting of priorities for the 7th environment action programme: improving the quality of life through environmental protection (2011/2194 (ini)) (a7-0048/2012).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament wants a seventh environmental action programme of the european union. it would be incomprehensible if we stopped our efforts to improve the quality of the environment and health in europe with the sixth action programme, which expires in june this year. the 7th action programme must not be a copy of the 6th. we are much further along and the challenges are much greater. we need a new approach in the 7th action programme, a horizontal approach to all other policies. we have systemic risks. the commissioner has just mentioned that climate change, the loss of biodiversity, the scarcity of resources - these are all challenges which cannot be tackled by conventional environmental policy alone. we need all the other portfolios, all the other policies in the eu, in particular energy and transport policy, agricultural and fisheries policy, cohesion policy, but also economic and financial policy in particular. i would like to stress this point. this is the hard part: how do we get the finance ministers, how do we get the economics ministers in their respective fields to treat greening as a guiding principle? parliament has drawn up 80 paragraphs proposing the content and procedures of a 7th environment action programme, and these include calls for the elimination of environmentally harmful subsidies. after the greening of tax policy, we must internalize the external costs into prices. the polluter pays principle must be enforced step by step. and in macroeconomic governance we also need to monitor sustainability in the european semester. there are many other ideas that we've developed. the ecological footprint of europe as a whole is far too large. if all seven billion people today and nine billion people by the middle of the century were to consume as much energy and as many resources as we do in europe, then we would not need just one planet, we would need two planets. we know that we have planetary limits on the availability of resources. therefore, the consumption of resources must be drastically reduced. the 7th action programme must open the door to a green economy, to a policy of resource efficiency. we should pay particular attention to the urban environment. more and more people live in urban areas, and there is an opportunity to set an example of how resource management and resource efficiency can be designed. green cities are the goal in europe. there are already many good examples, best practices, which need to be generalized. the protection of the environment is of course also a matter of protecting human health. the integration of environmental and health protection in the 7th action programme must be clearly communicated to the public as a message, and then there will be a response and acceptance. we have some shortcomings here. the air pollution is still too high. the noise pollution is enormous. noise is a forgotten aspect of environmental policy. he's totally underrated. we still have many toxic chemicals that are leaking into the environment and affecting health. and we have the new challenges with nanomaterials and other new materials that need to be studied in depth. the best laws, the best programs, they're useless if we don't enforce them. the 7th environment action programme really needs to close the enforcement gap. finally, i believe that europe must send a message to the world that we need sustainable management. otherwise, mankind will not survive on planet earth.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not going to tell you. ladies and gentlemen, in general, environmental action programmes are intended to set important medium and long-term objectives in the field of european environmental policy. the evaluation of the 6th environment programme, however, has shown that the programme has fallen short of expectations, despite being the first environmental action programme to be jointly drawn up by the council and the european parliament under the co-decision procedure. it sets priorities for climate change, biodiversity, natural resources, waste, health and food quality. we must recognize that the objectives could not be achieved, certainly also because they were not properly implemented in the countries. but have we not also paved the way for this development? because if i look at the preamble to the report, i find, for example, a communication entitled 'europe 2020: a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth'. i find the roadmap - it will be presented shortly - for a green europe, i find the roadmap for a resource-efficient europe. and that's how you can continue. i can't do all of them here, because i'm running out of time. the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european environment agency (eea) and the european environment agency (eea). instead of creating new indicators, which are bureaucratically expensive to check but do not provide us with any useful information, we must take account of developments in society as a whole in our decisions. only then can they be properly implemented. i disagree with the rapporteur who said that the environmental action programme should be horizontal. no, it has to be above, it has to be not horizontal, but sectoral. it has to be above, and then something can come underneath it and not many things next to each other. it's not harmonious, and it didn't work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it will be important that the 7th environment action programme also reflects the resource efficiency we are discussing here and that the plenary hopefully votes as we have voted in committee. the rio+20 conference will hopefully be a big hit. i am quite positive after the consultations with the environment ministers this week. we should then also design the 7th action programme accordingly and take account of what will hopefully be decided in rio, namely the international dimension. sustainable business: a holistic approach must be found, for example in the automobile industry. from production to disposal, the car must be considered. we need a legal framework for this, and the 7th environment action programme is a good place to put it and to apply it in the legislation that is being revised.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would first of all like to thank the members for their support and clarify that for me there was never any question of having or not having the 7th environmental action programme. i was always in favour of it, but there were some things which were – according to the legislation – simply vital. one of these was that we do a full report of the existing 6th environmental action programme and that we learn the lessons, which in a way is logical. even if there will be some time between the 6th and the 7th environmental action programmes, i can assure you that we are listening to you carefully and are implementing many of the things that you have underlined. for example, even though this year you will have a very comprehensive water proposal on the table, we will also be addressing the question of phosphorous and other issues. many of the questions concerning biodiversity that we had discussed previously – resource efficiency and so on – have been dealt with over the last two years, so we are really trying to be active. but at the same time, we very much understand that we need a longer-term and coherent framework on which we can all agree and cooperate. secondly, i would like to say that we are much closer to a common understanding of the shape and substance of the 7th environmental action programme after this week. at the beginning of the week we discussed it in informal council in denmark, and today we are discussing it here. my conclusion is that the views are converging and the common understanding of what the programme should actually include, what it should address and how it should be shaped, is emerging. the public consultation is also still open. it will go on until may, and we are expecting to receive input from that. i would like to sum up in one sentence the dilemma which sometimes exists between green growth and so-called brown growth. we would really not be discussing green growth if everything were alright and if brown growth were not problematic. brown growth in itself is limited in terms of growth capacity, and many businesses today are starting to understand that and to shift their activities. if we do not take into consideration some of the limited resources that we share today on the planet, like water, land, oceans and ecosystems, we will simply hit the walls of development ourselves. that is why the green economy is inevitable. it is simply logical. to give you just one example: if we continue with business as usual, then in the year 2030 – which is not so far from now – we will need 40% more water than we actually have on earth. the situation is simply not going to go away. that is something which cannot happen and cannot work. of course, some of you mentioned indicators and gdp. i fully agree. there is a well-known saying: what you do not measure, you do not take into consideration when you are creating your policies and your decisions. i think we need them quite urgently. to conclude, i think the situation we have today is quite different from the situation of ten years ago, when we were discussing and adopting the 6th environmental action programme. much more legislation is in place, but – on the other hand – we understand much better some of the challenges that have emerged as a result of knowledge. some things that are much more obvious today than they were a decade ago inform our decision on what we will have to incorporate into the 7th environmental action programme. it is obvious that climate, biodiversity and resources will still have to be our main focus, but we should not replicate – double or triple – the messages. i think we should simply focus on creating a synthesis, a longer-term view and visions. i have heard from many of you that we should pay attention to urban issues, health, chemicals, the air and a strong international dimension. i basically agree. that is no problem at all, but i would underline that our main focus should be on two major things. one is implementation of the things that are already completed or which concern legislation where we are really lagging behind. nothing will improve if the things we agree are not implemented. parliament – as a legislative body – should be very much interested in ensuring that the things to which you agree and give your blessing are implemented in practice. i will certainly follow up on that. the second point is integration, which some of you call coherence. i think it is of the utmost importance that all our policies take into consideration the fact that we are living in a very interconnected and interdependent world. the next financial mff financial proposal will need to focus on and give proper attention to the questions we are discussing today. i would like to thank you again, and especially the rapporteur, mr jo leinen. i think we are on course for some good results.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the debate showed that there is a consensus in the european parliament for a 7th environment action programme, and i thank all the shadow rapporteurs who helped to build this consensus. i also thank commissioner potočnik, who took the initiative in the commission because not everyone wanted a prima vista 7th environmental action programme. i have to say, there was resistance. and we can now see, after the debate in the council of ministers for the environment, after the debate in the european parliament, how useful and also how necessary a 7th environment action programme can be to produce a synthesis of all the objectives which we have set out so far in the various strategies and road maps. this synthesis, this message that europe's ecological footprint must be reduced, and the measures needed to do so, are the main messages of this 7th environment action programme. i would like to say again that we must also put demands to the finance ministers and the economic ministers. i hope that the report will not be weakened by the vote later. we need to call for greening tax policy, for greening economic policy, because environmental policy alone will not achieve sustainability. that has been said many times in speeches here. the environmental strategy must also be reflected in the financial strategy. and we will be debating the medium-term financial plan until 2020. the commission has proposed to set aside 20% of the total of billions for climate protection for sustainability. i'd say that's the minimum. and i hope that parliament can negotiate more. it is not possible that 80% of the funds are used to damage the environment and only 20% of the funds are used to help protect the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i hope that the council will take them up. then we go into the codecision procedure, and then it becomes very concrete. and we're gonna help you build that into a challenging program.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the higher education system remains the responsibility of the member states and, in germany, of the länder, but we need common principles and networks. the tőkés report addresses important issues: lifelong learning, higher education and training, cultural diversity, protection of minorities, religious values, ethical values, training in european issues. i appreciate that. the university of wroclaw, your home town, mr president, is exemplary in this respect because it offers polish, german and silesian literature across borders in several language areas. this is the european higher education policy we want, not an americanization of our higher education system.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we see in mali, but also in the conflict between sudan and south sudan that is going on at the moment, how fragile the borders in africa are, because they are artificial and colonial. however, i agree: we need territorial integrity, democracy, the rule of law and no change of borders. but if we want this, we have to be creative. and just as we have developed a roma policy in europe, thanks to the initiative of viktor orbán and hungary, we need a tuareg policy in north africa for people who simply exist across borders. we need regions, we need cross-border neighbourhood policies to connect culturally related peoples without questioning the integrity of states. the african union has a huge responsibility here, but we also have a supporting role to play.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too believe that we must support the democratization process in burma by gradually - i stress gradually - lifting sanctions. it is true that there are sanctions that only affect the civilian population, and these must be removed as soon as possible. the positive development must also be supported. on the other hand, we must see that sanctions are not bad in themselves. the present situation would not have been possible without certain sanctions and the sakharov prize for burma, which this parliament awarded at the time. we must make one thing very clear: it is not just the civilian population. there are also companies that, in the worst period of dictatorship, have made their business with raw materials. this has undermined our burma policy. that is why we need to strike a balance between economic rationality and cooperation on the one hand and a clear human rights policy on the other.
in writing. − higher education is at the heart of the european union's strategy for growth and innovation. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new programme, which will be launched in the autumn of this year. at the same time, universities must open up their structures to a more permeable higher education system in europe. in this context, dual training also plays an important role. all educational institutions must ultimately contribute equally to the creation of european qualifications.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on friday 20 april 2012.
ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to welcome members and senior staff of the constituent assembly of the republic of tunisia who have taken their seats in the gallery. welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to the house of commons. (applause from the centre) the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. you are the representatives of a great hope for your country and for europe. welcome to the european parliament. (applause from the centre) i welcome a delegation from the european school uccle to the visitors' gallery. they are students who have worked very hard on a school project in zambia. welcome, my dear ladies and gentlemen, dear students! welcome to the european parliament!
i am not going to go into detail. we are following with great concern the recent developments in bahrain. contrary to the announcement to introduce reforms and opening up the country, pressure on human rights activists has been increased in recent days. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to remind the kingdom of its commitment to respect human rights. bahrain has ratified international human rights conventions that are legally and morally binding. we call for an immediate national dialogue with the representatives of all the political forces in the country, as advocated by the baysuni inquiry commission. the situation in egypt remains very tense. it is unacceptable that more than a year after the fall of the dictator mubarak, human rights activists, journalists, bloggers and writers continue to suffer harassment and intimidation. the ongoing trial of our sakharov prize winner asmaa mahfouz is just one of many examples. we in parliament will always stand with those who, whether in our neighbouring countries or in other regions of the world, are fighting for an open, pluralist and tolerant society. i have also been asked to mention specifically the case of dr wenceslao mansogo in equatorial guinea.
we mourn today the loss of a valued member of our house. we mourn the loss of our colleague miguel de sacadura cabral portas, who died on 24 april at the age of just 53. portas' colleague was an economist by training. after that, he followed his calling to become a journalist. a profession which he has pursued for many years with great dedication and, as we all know, with passion. miguel was first elected to the european parliament in 2004. miguel was arrested by the salazar regime's secret police as a 15-year-old boy for his participation in a student demonstration in lisbon. he participated in the carnation revolution, which eventually led to the overthrow of the dictatorship in portugal. throughout his life, this man was a passionate left-wing activist and a fervent defender of democracy. i have come to know my colleague miguel portas as a convinced european who fought with all his heart for social justice and democracy. although we did not always share his convictions, as many others did, we all experienced the constructive and positive human behaviour he displayed even in controversial discussions. he was a man who spoke his mind openly, a truly fair colleague who never hid behind any procedural questions but was always willing to seek the decision, to seek it with a democratic majority and in the end, even if he lost, to accept it. he was a man of his word. i think for all of us in this house, his sense of humor will live on. miguel was one of our colleagues who was also able to laugh at himself, and his laughter will remain in our memory. our thoughts are with his family and friends at this difficult time, who will also be hosting a memorial service for him at the house tomorrow, to which i cordially invite you. we have certainly lost a distinguished member of our house to a treacherous disease, which he fought valiantly against, but which finally defeated him. we have lost a great member of this house. i'd appreciate it if you'd stand up in his honor. (parliament adopted the resolution)
the next item is the president's statement on the future of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. a little over 60 years ago, a quiet revolution began that was to change our world. on the rubble of world war ii, the foundation stone was laid for a project that has achieved the most remarkable success in human history: enemies joined hands for reconciliation and became friends; a famine-stricken region became the world's most prosperous single market; people are breaking free from dictatorships and turning their states into democracies. we built the most advanced social model and the best health care system in the world. together we have created a european social model that allows us to live together a little better every day: a model that combines democracy and peace, freedom and solidarity in a way that is unique in the world. we should be proud of what we have achieved. and to defend it in the consciousness that we know where we come from. more than 60 years ago, men and women who had lived through the devastation of two world wars took the pledge to 'never again war'. the images of bloody battlefields had not yet faded, the destroyed houses had not yet been rebuilt, when these men and women came up with an astonishing and, given the circumstances under which they lived, almost surreal idea. to prevent a catastrophe of the scale of world war ii from recurring, they proposed a quiet revolution: not to build walls, but to tear down what divides; not to overcome the arch-enemy once and for all, but to stretch out his hand to raise him up; not condemn the perpetrators forever, but to integrate them into the community and forgive them; the european union has a duty to help the people of europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we must not go it alone, but together, towards the future. for the good of all. that was the goal of these men and women. the european coal and steel community was born, as its father robert schuman called it, exactly 62 years ago, as 'solidarity in action'. this solidarity in action is based on the recognition that if we want to survive in europe, in the truest sense of the word, we must live and act together. the recognition that our interests are no longer separate from those of our neighbours, the recognition that we are weak alone but strong together - this recognition has created a model that is unique in human history: a model that has given us peace, freedom, democracy, equality, prosperity and solidarity for six decades. the courage of the founding fathers and mothers, drawing on the experience of the lowest point of civilization reached by europe, to give an answer, the courage to give the answer that says: we can only do it together, so we must do it together. to give this courage today, in the face of economic decline and rising unemployment, with the institutional structure of the european union and a decades-long history of success behind us, would be much easier to fall for than it was for our fathers and mothers, our grandfathers and grandmothers, who found it difficult to come to the realization that we must act together. ladies and gentlemen, our ancestors built europe and lived in ruins, our ancestors built europe and lived in hunger, our ancestors built europe and were war wounded, widows or returned from decades of captivity or were victims of terror and torture. and yet they had the courage to say, "we're in this together", despite their history of such cruelty. why does the retreat to the national seem more tempting than our common presence? why are the centrifugal forces of the current crisis driving us apart instead of binding us closer together? two of the greatest achievements of european integration are now being called into question again: the euro and freedom of movement. what does europe represent more than the freedom to work, live and travel without frontiers? for the erasmus generation, this is a natural right, a right they exercise every day: to move around in a space free of barriers and passport controls. and we're going to let them take that away from us? the european union is not a free trade area. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals. not retreat beyond national borders, but solidarity, joint action to better protect the eu's external borders and the common governance of the schengen area at eu level - that is what is needed to solve our problems that surely exist! let me say something about the euro: the euro should bring together the peoples of europe; the european parliament has been a symbol of national selfishness on all sides, and it is even a symbol of division. a return to national single currencies would be fatal and the political and economic losses would be dramatic. we are not going to pay in german marks, dutch guilders, french francs, belgian francs, luxembourg francs, italian lira, spanish pesetas. is it not clear to everyone in this house that no single currency would be able to survive in intercontinental monetary competition? instead of being a global player with a world reserve currency, we will then fall back to a petty state, accompanied by a loss of political and economic significance, the cost of which will be borne by the small people of the european union. we must move forward together, ladies and gentlemen. we have been calling for budgetary discipline in this house for a long time! but this house has also been calling for a growth pact for a long time! we know that nation states, acting alone, are being swallowed up by the whirlwind of global financial markets. only together can we counteract the economic decline of europe and the growing unemployment! we have long called for balanced budgets in the european parliament. yes, they are necessary! i would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is my deeply personal conviction that balanced budgets are also necessary for the sake of generational justice. i cannot accept for myself that my standard of living today is financed in such a way that my children and their children have to pay the bill for my current standard of living. it's not fair! (applause from the centre) that is why we need budgetary discipline, that is indisputable. but this parliament also says: we need initiatives to stimulate growth, alongside savings! we have long called for a new source of revenue, the financial transaction tax, which has found a majority in this house across all group boundaries as seldom any other project has before. we want to curb tax evasion! and, ladies and gentlemen, let me add that in the crisis situations we are living in, the true patriots are those who help their countries, not those who take the capital out of the countries and do not participate in solidarity. if we take seriously the idea of a european growth initiative - and the heads of government take it seriously, we know there will be a special summit on 23 may - then we must also make clear how the growth initiative is to work. and we will have to say what resources are to be made available for this. ladies and gentlemen, that is why the european parliament has made a clear commitment to the eu budget on schuman day. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. (applause from the centre) the eu budget is an investment budget designed to boost economic growth and create jobs. whoever employs the thieves here is robbing us of our common future. no one needs a growth pact more than the young people of this continent. the european union must not be left to the mercy of the world's financial institutions. the young people, aged 18 to 30, whom i met in spain last week - all academics, some with three academic degrees, all unemployed - these young people are not responsible for the crisis, but they are paying a disproportionately high price for the rescue of states and banks. the question i was asked by a young man and a young woman in madrid was: yes, we accept that you spend 750 billion to stabilize our economic system, but when will you have a million for us? already today, one in four europeans under 25 is unemployed, and in some countries one in two. investing in continuing training and improving training opportunities is money well spent. this is what robert schuman meant, solidarity in action. if the eu's active action prevents europe from sliding into recession, if it succeeds in preserving jobs and creating new ones, then that is solidarity in action. europe is strong when it is united and united. we must understand this if we are to save europe from becoming irrelevant. we want to strengthen european democracy. we want more transparent decision-making processes and the choice between clear political alternatives. that's what people expect from us, by the way. we want to commit ourselves to solidarity, to put national egos in the way. the balance between poor and rich, large and small member states has always been for the benefit of all. we want to remember that we are a community of values. our values are the core of our identity. we want and we should have a responsibility as europeans for the world. one year after the arab spring, we want to be partners with our neighbours in their transformation. i keep hearing people say, 'we're not going to get this, this more europe.' i don't think he is. the intense interest in the elections in france and greece last weekend - particularly because of the european debate - shows that what is happening in europe is perceived as european domestic politics. it shows how much people are aware that we are interdependent, that failure in one country brings problems to all other countries. it shows that people are aware that solutions can only be found together. the european union, even in its present form, is the most successful political and social experiment in history. from the beginnings of the process of unification with the schuman plan in 1950, to the foundation of the common market in the treaties of rome in 1958, to today's community of 27 - soon 28 - states and 500 million citizens, the european project has undergone a breathtaking development. portugal, spain and greece were shaking off their dictatorships. we have just said goodbye to a colleague who was actively involved in this liberation. two decades ago, the berlin wall fell, the soviet union dissolved, and the way was opened for european unity. the eastward expansion put an end to the artificial division of our continent by the iron curtain. the prospect of accession to the european union supported the peaceful transformation of the countries of central and eastern europe and thus contributed to security, stability and prosperity throughout europe. many citizens there expected that eu accession would change the new member states. few foresaw how profoundly the new member states would change the eu us! for the better. the central and eastern european countries brought their own political and historical experience, which has greatly enriched the european perspective. i am therefore proud - and i say this with great respect on europe day - to have succeeded my polish predecessor, jerzy buzek, as president of the european parliament. my successor, mr buzek, has shown that we are a continent which is strong when it is united. in europe we share common values: democracy, freedom, solidarity and human rights. we must never forget those who have devoted their lives to the struggle against oppression and the struggle for freedom and democracy. the iron curtain, the dictatorships in southern europe, did not simply fall, they were brought down by the peaceful protest of people - especially in eastern europe, by the peaceful protest of citizens - against a criminal system that oppressed eastern europe. we have colleagues among us who were involved in this. we owe you a great debt of gratitude on may 9th! to this day, you are role models for freedom fighters around the world, most recently in the arab spring, when revolutionaries in africa recalled the uprising against these dictatorships in europe. it is amazing that they remember the revolutionaries in europe and that the example of the revolutionaries has become so worthless to the europeans! (applause from the centre) 60 years ago, a quiet revolution began that changed our world forever: europe showed that it could: combine democracy, justice, freedom and solidarity. the link between justice and democracy, freedom and solidarity across national and international borders - that is our european model of society. a model in which there is a free press and independent courts, a model which guarantees pensions and health care, which organizes free access to education and career opportunities for all, a model of parliamentary democracy and democratic and political participation, a model of equality and of the guaranteed, indivisible rights of citizens, a model which always strives to achieve the highest social and environmental standards and which today has the highest environmental standards in the world, a model in which there is no child labour and no death penalty! we have created a model of society in which the human being is the center of attention. that's the kind of society i want to live in, and i think you do, too. i want my children and their children to live in such a society. but the kind of society we live in today is not guaranteed to last forever. we need europe to defend our democratic and social model, especially in times of globalisation. we must not take what we have achieved for granted; we must strive to achieve it anew every day. today, on europe day, ladies and gentlemen, let us reflect on where we came from and what we have achieved. not to make a mockery of ourselves, but because our history exhorts us to defend what we have achieved. because what we have achieved is a good basis for a democratic, free, fair, stable future for our children! (applause from the centre)
i would point out that applause or disapproval from the rostrum is not part of parliamentary practice. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the report by mrs angelika niebler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on roaming on public mobile networks in the union (recast) (com (2011) 0402 - c7-0190/2011 - 2011/0187 (cod)) (a7-0149/2012).
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i assume that each of you in this chamber has a smartphone and uses it all the time, no matter where you are, whether you are travelling at home, in your own country, travelling in europe, on holiday or on business. we in parliament are no exception, but our citizens are also constantly on the move and travelling around europe. and our young people in particular are constantly online these days. i am therefore particularly pleased that tomorrow we will be able to adopt the so-called roaming iii regulation, which will come into force on 1 july 2012. this means that we are relieving our citizens of the burden of using smartphones in europe by reducing their charges in time for travel. mobile devices are the future, and our people are all mobile 24 hours a day. the data transfer via smartphones in particular has increased massively in recent years and will continue to increase massively in the coming years. the prices for mobile phone use abroad, on the other hand, are still extremely high, almost the same. this can't be happening! the prices must be in line with reality. it is not possible for a smartphone user at home or in another european country to pay x times what he has to pay at home for making calls, sending and receiving text messages or downloading data. all i can say is: my provider informed me earlier this week that if i download 1 mb here in brussels i am with a german provider , i have to pay 8.20 euros for it. this is a rip-off, this can't be! what is the new roaming regulation? the purpose is to bring prices down for all our citizens. we want to achieve this by creating more competition in the roaming market in the future. we are introducing price caps, and the new one is the price cap for data transmission. the first price ceiling is to take effect on 1 july 2012. the cost of 1 mb should be 70 cents at most. prices will be further reduced from 1 july 2013: then only 45 cents per mb will be allowed to be charged. and the third price cut is to take effect on july 1, 2014: the price will then be 20 cents per mb. we have negotiated these price ceilings in tough negotiations with the council. i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs and in particular my colleague from the s&d group, robert goebbels, very much. if we had not fought so hard for good prices, we would not be where we are today, where we will hopefully be on 1 july. the market will continue to be open to new suppliers who do not have their own network. so we're looking at something called an open-access solution. furthermore, from 1 july 2014, consumers may also choose to use roaming services provided by a provider other than their national provider. this is the unbundling solution we are proposing, and european customers will also be able to use local services when travelling abroad - the so-called local breakout - by choosing the best offer from the various local operators, as is already the case with wi-fi access today. we have also introduced consumer protection rules. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the eu. the obligation to give notice when you have reached a certain tariff, a certain amount of fees, should also apply abroad. further consumer protection rules have been introduced to prevent involuntary roaming. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. i'm glad we're going to have regular prices in the roaming business as well from july 1st. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, today's vote is the launch of a regulation which will bring immediate added value to the citizens of europe. as soon as next summer holidays come, mobile phone calls abroad will be much cheaper, and for the first time there will be - and this is also important - price transparency outside europe. the important thing for me in this regulation is that we have not repeated the mistakes of roaming i and roaming ii. we have seen that mere price ceilings, which are in effect price fixing, do not lead to more competition. it is therefore important to focus on the unbundling of roaming services and national mobile contracts. here we are creating a market which will lead to low prices by itself through real choice for consumers and through additional market participants. of course, there must continue to be a safety net in prices, temporarily, to protect consumers from abuse. but more competition means more players, and that is not possible if price barriers are too low and there is too little scope for innovation. nor is it helping the consumer if operators lack the money to invest in new, faster networks in the future. we do not want to fall behind in europe. for these reasons, i welcome the fact that we have reached a sensible solution here and i would like to thank mrs niebler very much for her substantial contribution to a sensible solution. consumers will feel the new roaming regulation in their pockets. by 2014, there will be significant reductions in incoming and outgoing calls of up to 45%, and as of july 2012, consumers will be relieved by almost 20%. in particular, there are no limits to the abuse of data roaming, which has led to horrendous prices in some cases. these will also be covered in the future. we must continue to work towards completing the internal market and, if possible, reach a solution whereby we will not need any roaming charges in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. when i made a cross-border call in europe with my mobile phone a few years ago, i was once charged 123 euros for fifteen minutes. thanks to this european parliament, this rip-off has been put to an end. i admit, i was a little unhappy with the roaming i regulation. because price regulation is not really a part of the market economy. but we had no choice. normally, the market regulates prices through supply and demand in competition. but if there is no competition in this telecommunications market, then we have to regulate, then we have to intervene. telephoning is as much a part of everyday life as surfing the internet, and so is eating and drinking. we have the single market, citizens travel throughout europe and then they are extra robbed by roaming. it can't be. on that basis and in view of the situation, it is right that we have reacted as we have. in the decisions we have taken so far we have essentially regulated prices. the rules to be adopted tomorrow will make up for this shortcoming. if my colleague says that there is no competition, then we are creating competition in europe, not in one country, but in the single market, with this regulation which is now on the table. that's a very positive sign. if citizens take advantage of the opportunity they have now, in five or six years we will not be talking about roaming in europe. we've also looked ahead. we have included all the possibilities of data transmission in this regulation, we are up to date with the realities. i would like to thank the rapporteurs and all those who have contributed to this report. this is a great proposal, which is now here, in the interests of the citizens of europe!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think we've got a decent result. i would like to thank my colleague, angelika niebler, and my colleagues on the committees. the new roaming charges will put an end to the collection of charges from consumers and will finally put an end to unfair pricing. i hope that we all feel this during our summer vacation, when we are in greece, hopefully we can still travel to greece. i would like to mention another point which is particularly important to me, particularly for my home region, a region which borders the neighbouring countries of poland and the czech republic. it is important that citizens in border regions be relieved of special costs. the citizens often enter expensive foreign networks without being aware of it and without their consent, and then they have no choice but to do nothing and are not warned. we often talk about a europe without frontiers. but it is precisely when we make a phone call that we realise that we are being penalized financially as soon as we get close to a border. we want to change that. providers have to protect customers from paying these high costs, these involuntary fees. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. commissioner, you said robert schuman would be proud today. i think that is a bit excessive, given the european union's greatest crisis we are now facing. would he be proud of that? i also think that he would not be so proud of the draft that has come out of the commission. so i would also like to thank the colleagues who have fortunately made some changes in the committees. we are helping the citizen as the end consumer. but we must also admit that through our other directives and regulations we are imposing on the citizens many times the costs we are relieving them of now. we should work on that in the future. but it's a step in the right direction. i think we can all look forward to summer holidays and movement in the border regions in the future.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i am in a good mood, so to speak, because of the positive collaboration and constructive work by the parliament, the council and hopefully also, in your experience, the commission. we are able to add another strong example to the list of why europe counts and why europe is so important. we badly need examples to show the citizens in europe that it is not only a philosophy and a case of ‘this is what we believe’, but that we can also deliver on the list of what can be done. i was very much inspired by the intervention by mr hökmark. he indeed painted it in a broader sense than what is at stake today. today is an historic day, talking about our proposal, which, as mentioned, has been put on the table under the leadership of angelika. all in all, it is just one step on a long road where we have to deliver: we have talked about a digital agenda; we have to deliver on quite a number of issues. this experience with you, the parliament, and with the council, is inspiring me to go on and to prove to the outside world that europe is worthwhile, that europe makes sense and that it is a single digital market where borders should not count, but where the united population is taking advantage of what is at stake, in the spirit of the founders of europe.
president of the council. - madam president, i have to speak. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank parliament for a very good debate in which it is quite clear that we will hopefully see tomorrow a resolution which ensures a better internal market, which ensures greater competition, which ensures greater consumer protection and which helps to make the european union better equipped to cope with international competition. as my good friend jens rohde said, regardless of one's political views, it has been seen that the telecommunications companies have not been able to set fair prices themselves. the commission, parliament and the council have therefore had to take decisive and important decisions. this does not mean that calling across borders will suddenly become cheap, but it does mean that it will be much cheaper than it has been in the past. this is good news for businesses, which must create jobs and growth, but it is also good news for all those who travel to europe, whether they are travelling alone or with their families. i think most people who have traveled with children or grandchildren have experienced that when the bill came a few weeks later, there was a very annoying surprise in the envelope! it is now safer, more secure and more consumer-friendly to use mobile phones for calling, sending and receiving data. the decision which the european parliament will take tomorrow is therefore a very good example of the fact that even in a crisis situation we have a europe which knows how to take good decisions in the interests of growth and consumer safety. so tomorrow will be a very good day for the european union, and not least for the 500 million citizens of our european union, and i would like to thank parliament and the commission once again on behalf of the council for an excellent cooperation, which i think we can all be very pleased with.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, mr neelie kroes, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking you very much for the many words of appreciation. i am very pleased because i have never been praised in this parliament as i have been today. i would also like to thank, and above all to thank, all the members of this parliament who have supported me so much in the discussions, and i would also like to thank them once again for the excellent cooperation with the danish presidency and the commission. yes, we have a european single market. yes, we have a single european payments area. i think that what many colleagues have said in the debate, namely that we also need a single european communications area, is what we must aim for. creating a 'roaming-free area' here in europe must be our ultimate goal. i very much hope that we will get there in the near future. i also hope, commissioner, that we do not need a regulation on roaming iv, as mr rübig has said. i hope that as a result of the structural measures and the competition that is now being created, one provider will then take the courage to move forward and refrain from charging any roaming charges at all. i hope that happens before the audit happens and you report back here in 2016. i hope that the competition will work in such a way that the issue of roaming will finally be off the table. i would like to thank you very much and look forward to the vote tomorrow. i hope we shall get a great deal of support for the report here in parliament.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, migrants suffer not only from the loss of their home, from the long and dangerous journey, but also from the border policy of the european union and the conditions they find here in a comparatively rich eu. the member states and the commission need to do their utmost to guarantee and protect the human rights of migrants, which are exactly the same human rights as those of everybody else. agreements with third countries with the purpose of holding back or sending back migrants are a major obstacle for the human rights of migrants and italy’s push-back practice has been condemned by the european court of human rights. i wonder what consequences the commission and the council will draw from the hirsi judgment. this is also one of the questions we asked in our oral question. agreements with countries like libya have led to grave human rights violations but, instead of putting an end to this, with a eurosur proposal the commission is encouraging member states to conclude more and more bilateral agreements. an information exchange with third countries will lead to the holding back of migrants and to a de facto end to the right to asylum and the obligation of non-refoulement. the bilateral nature of those agreements will also exclude parliament from any sort of co-decision and any sort of information. we should not let this happen in this parliament. instead of ‘fortress europe’, the european union needs to offer real protection and the right to asylum. it needs to have a common asylum system and the council should no longer block this very important undertaking which, i think, will enable us to have a proper and better asylum system in the european union and to guarantee the human rights of migrants and everybody else in the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that's a really good story that mrs. wikström told us about. it is quite obvious that it is important to have a central body to be able to bring about a solution in these cases and also to see which location is the right one, to see in case of legal issues which country should be responsible for resolving such media conflicts. i also think that mrs wikström has done a very good job. i think it is a pity that more people have not spoken out on this subject. there is, of course, a great deal of agreement, so perhaps it is not necessary. but it is actually an important step forward that we can take as a parliament, and i am delighted about that.
question for the commissioner: my dear colleague! if i understand you correctly, you have just said that such a free trade agreement is primarily designed to promote our interests and those of the big corporations, rather than serving the people. do you agree that in recent years, economic development, the development of wealth and the lifting of people out of poverty has been mostly in those regions of the world where they have opened up to markets and participated in world trade?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. what is the general situation in these countries in the region? mr bokros has made a very impressive statement on this. we are really at the beginning of a process, and the fear must be that in the end democracy will not prevail in every country, but that perhaps in one or another country islamist tendencies will eventually come to power. so i really hope that we do everything we can to bring about improvements in these countries in the short term, so that people realize that democratic systems really do help them and actually want to move them forward. mr kazak touched on the subject of micro-credit. i would also like to see us make progress in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. if many of them can create half a job, a full job and hire more staff, then that will really move the region forward. that is why i am very hopeful about micro-credit. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. investment will only take place if the overall framework conditions are right, i.e. democracy, the rule of law, legal certainty for those who have invested there. and that is why i hope that we will intensify our dialogue in the coming months. and we need personnel for that. mr commissioner, when i hear that there is hardly a single foreign trade official in the tunisian delegation, when i hear that there is not a single representative of the directorate-general for foreign trade in jordan, it shows that we need to ensure that staff is increased in the short term and that we may have to discuss this again with our colleagues in the committee on budgets in the forthcoming budgetary debates. i would like to thank mr rinaldi for this very balanced report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 10 may 2012 at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the commission statement on the patenting of essential biological processes.
member of the commission. − mr president, the issue of the patentability of essentially biological processes is very sensitive, and the patenting of plant-related inventions is particularly sensitive for plant breeders. biotechnological inventions relate to biological material, meaning any material which contains genetic information and which can either reproduce itself or be reproduced. such inventions concern either a product consisting of, or containing, biological material, or a process by which biological material is used or produced. biotechnology is very diverse and covers agriculture, pharmaceutical, medical or industrial applications. therefore, biotechnology offers a great potential to assist us all in our daily lives and in life-saving circumstances. it is a hallmark of the european capacity for innovation. the number of patent applications relating to plants in europe has been stable over the last decade, with an average of 800 applications per year. since 1990 some 1 700 such patents have been granted, of which slightly less than 100 concerned non-genetically modified inventions. this may seem low compared to an overall number of 2 100 patents granted in 2011 in the sole field of biotechnology. however, because of rapid technical progress in breeding activities, the granting of plant-related patent rights creates potential tensions. the directive on biotechnological inventions, or ‘biotech directive’ for short, sets limits on the patentability of biotechnological inventions. similar provisions also exist in the european patents convention (epc). let me be very clear here: elements occurring naturally cannot be patented. they are mere discoveries and not inventions. to be patentable, an invention must have a technical character, be new and inventive and must not be exempted from patentability. with regard to the third condition, the biotech directive and the epc set strict exclusions. essentially, biological processes for the production of plants may not be patented. such essentially biological processes consist purely of crossing and selection. breeding techniques have, however, substantially evolved in the past years. modern, so-called ‘smart’ techniques make breeding more efficient; they use markers which allow for the targeted selection of existing plant material genes for further breeding. in the so-called ‘broccoli’ and ‘tomato’ cases, the enlarged board of appeal of the european patents office clarified that conventional breeding methods are still excluded from patentability even if they make use of marker techniques. however, some grey areas remain, in particular as to whether a new plant which is a product of conventional breeding may itself be patentable. of course, if this product is a plant variety – for example, angel’s dream, one of the 3 000 varieties of tulips – it cannot be patented. but the issue arises where the invention can be applied to different plant varieties. this question will soon be examined by the enlarged board of appeal. we therefore expect further guidance in the future. a biotechnological patent is granted in order to promote innovation. under the breeders’ exemption principle it should, however, not keep breeders from innovating further by using protected material to create new plant varieties. the biotech directive does not explicitly address the question of a breeder’s exemption. in some member states though – germany and france for example – such an explicit provision exists in national patent legislation. the commission intends to take a closer look at questions concerning the breeders’ exemption and also at the issue of essentially biological processes, in the coming months. as already mentioned in our replies to written questions by honourable members, the commission will indeed publish a new report under article 16(c) of the biotech directive covering breeders’ relevant issues, national developments and the relevant case law. in conclusion, let me assure you that the commission is taking the concerns raised – especially those related to blend breeding – very seriously. we are already looking closely into the matter and will deal with all relevant topics in full transparency and openness. commissioner barnier will be happy to provide further information on this subject.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the commissioner has given us some very insightful information. thank you very much. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the use of the patent system in the european union, and to provide information on the use of the patent system in the european union. two outstanding examples are: the granting of patents on genetically modified and cultured barley this applies to the whole chain from seed to plant. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this example shows the devastating scale of patenting. second example: the so-called "long-life tomato", not to be confused with your long-life oil, which you have in your diesel engines. the patent was obtained by this trick of the us applicant arcadia, bypassing the eu rules. the patent was not on the tomato, but on its genetic material, namely selected enzymes. this shows the tricks that are being used. and this, despite the fact that, as you said, mr commissioner, article 4 of the 1998 biopatrent directive clearly states: (b) essentially biological processes for the production of plants or animals. we believe that this definition needs to be interpreted more precisely. technical processes used to support conventional breeding shall not lead to patentability in general. we say, in effect, no patents on life. and we need a clear signal here for more ethics and for more honesty in the handling of creation - again: against patentability of life throughout europe. and so, commissioner, we are calling for the commission to make it clear that patents on breeding material and genetic resources are and will remain prohibited in europe. secondly, we want a clear position on article 4 of the biopatent directive: no patent on life. and thirdly, commissioner, on behalf of many farmers, many breeders in europe, we demand that breeders' and farmers' privileges be clearly defined in all legislation.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. we are in the midst of a discussion of the utmost importance. we are all, of course, in favour of patenting inventions, of protecting innovations that actually benefit those who have invented something new. however, when it comes to breeding methods, especially in the biological fields, we have to think very carefully about what is actually an invention and what is just a discovery or an improvement of natural breeding methods. and that is one of the questions that arises in the context of patenting. and we have some cases, in the case of tomatoes, broccoli and other areas, where we wonder in what direction this is going in the european patent convention. and you, commissioner, have just admitted that there are grey areas in the areas of patentability and the implementation and interpretation of the law in this area. and it's these gray areas that we're talking about when we say we need to think about how we're going to deal with them. we must ensure that the diversity of varieties we have in the european union, the diversity of breeding methods, which all have their value, are not destroyed by excessive patent claims. we have to make sure that our small and medium-sized businesses can also develop and use this breeder's privilege that they have, and that it is not destroyed by patenting it in such a way that they can't use this privilege at all, that they can't even use the natural material that we have in nature without any hindrance. and this is one of the points that concerns us, and where we ask, commissioner, that the commission pay very particular attention to and examine the way in which these prohibitions, which we had enforced in the biopatent directive - and we had very heated discussions at the time - are actually respected: the principle that what the european patent office has stated, namely that not only the explicit wording of the claims, but also the entire technical doctrine of the application must be respected, must also be enforced and respected.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. although alde is not involved in this matter - the group is a little divided in its position - we have together found a large majority for a subject which is of great interest to the public, although there are indeed different interpretations of an existing law. we have some standards - directive 98/44 - which clearly state that there can be no patenting of breeding with animals and plants. but the european patent office is very broad in its interpretation of the rules, to put it mildly. there have been several cases where it can be said that the european patent office is in fact violating the directives which the european union has set itself. and to make this arbitrariness of interpretation of the directives clear, it must be said that if conventional breeding methods are suddenly patented, if conventional breeding methods and conventional breeding methods in animals are placed under patent protection, then this does not correspond to what we are actually clearly saying with directive 98/44. and the products are then also patented - which is also contrary to what we want in the spirit of the european union. we must therefore urge the european patent office to play by the rules of the game and not to over interpret them. there are still 1 000 applications for plant breeding. there are still a total of 3 986 applications for animal breeding. that means that we have a lot of work to do and we have a lot of things to discuss with the european patent office. and of course we must also take the concerns of farmers and breeders seriously. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the problem of the environment. it is also a step towards the destruction of genetic resources, which also limits farmers, and it is a step towards the farmers' right to breed themselves. we must also defend ourselves against this! last week, the patent office had to overturn a decision that dealt with the separation of sperm. that is another point which we, the green group, deplored at the time. now that patent had to be revoked. this is a clear success that we have achieved. but it's just a start that we're engaging politically with what the patent office is doing in many ways. i would ask that we adopt this resolution together tomorrow by a large majority. this will be a clear sign the vast majority in this parliament that we want course corrections, that the commission must deal with the issue and provide clarity you, mr commissioner, have made this clear yourself. the european patent convention must also contain clarifications. breeding is not an invention and there is a farmer's privilege and we don't want to patent life together.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if i am correctly informed, i have been given an extra half-minute because one of our speakers has unfortunately not come. i thank all those who have contributed to the resolution. and i'm not just saying that as a rhetorical device, i'm saying it with all my heart. i regret that alde did not cooperate, but i think that we should also take a look at our own nose. we have already proposed to discuss this matter weeks ago. and alde said at the conference of presidents that it did not want to discuss this. i myself took the initiative and went to my colleagues and said, 'let's talk about this together.' if you refuse to cooperate at first - i do not know who in the group decided this - then you cannot complain afterwards. we have to work with what's on the table now. patenting is important for innovation. we should be able to agree on that. but she needs boundaries. otherwise, innovation is hindered if the claims go too far, and of course there are ethical boundaries to be respected. that was the european parliament's petition when we adopted the directive in 1998. the directive is better than its reputation, it just needs to be implemented properly. this is true for plants: article 4 has been interpreted in contradictory ways by the european patent office. the resolution gives the right guidance on how to interpret article 4. this is true in other areas as well. it must also be made clear that you cannot cheat when you apply for a patent and succeed. in the case of plants and other biotechnological inventions, it is often the case that instead of specifying the whole technical process, only certain steps are indicated, thereby circumventing a possible exclusion from patentability laid down in the directive. this has happened with plants and other patents, for example the patenting of embryonic stem cells, which the patent office and the ecj recently had to decide on. if the ecj and the european patent office are implementing the directive consistently, we should also praise them. the amendments are intended to make it clear that you cannot steal a patent by deliberately omitting information, but that the directive must be implemented consistently. the european patent office has not done so in part. but it has done so elsewhere, so we should not only criticize but also praise where this right approach has been taken.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am very glad and grateful that we are debating today the important question of the patenting of plants and animals and voting tomorrow, and i think that the large majority in this house should also clear up any doubts that may still be there. it is simply an important issue that we should not postpone, because we have really let the whole process of discussion run its course. patenting is important - my colleague said it - but there must be limits. let me make it clear at the beginning of my speech that there can be no patent on life, and i am also fundamentally opposed to patents on conventionally bred farm animals and crops. there is a clear line here that must not be crossed. the situation is what it is: they are trying to achieve exactly that by circumventing facts by patenting technical processes. we are in a situation where we are almost in a gold-digging mood, with several thousand applications that are simply trying to do this. there is a need for action here, and i am glad - i agree with my colleague peter liese - that we are not only calling for a change in the law very quickly, but that we are also trying to really support the existing interpretation and the patent office where it is struggling with the interpretation on the right side; we are not only going to have to, as they say, "hit the ball hard", but we are also going to have to do something about it. so we have to be careful. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the genetic resources of the european union are not used for the production of foodstuffs, and that the genetic resources of the european union are not used for the production of foodstuffs. it is undeniable that intellectual property must be adequately protected without restricting access to genetic resources. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the problem of the over-production of cereals. the key point is that it is a new product based on a new innovative process. it is necessary to exclude the possibility of co-patenting all identical products, genes or genetic characteristics by circumventing the patenting of a technical process. this balancing of interests is certainly not an easy task, but one we should undertake. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question for the commissioner: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. they have mentioned that this incorrect application of the current directive may also have a negative impact on the cultivation of crops or the breeding of livestock. could you perhaps clarify this for me, as a non-farmer?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. thank you for your question, mr president. so far far, farmers have been able to use the genetic potential for their own reproduction, and there is a corresponding replacement fee. the danger is obvious when we are talking about the patenting of plants, because the burden of proof is reversed. that is, if you find such plants on the farmer, you assume that he has used these patented plants, and he is then sued accordingly by patent law. in the end, this means that a few large companies with patents would severely restrict genetic diversity and the farmers' possibilities of cultivation and reproduction. we're trying to prevent that.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will be very brief. i have taken careful note of your concerns and i will certainly refer them to commissioner barnier, who is in charge of this file and is much more knowledgeable about it than i am. just one word about the next report: developments which have occurred since the last report in 2005, including in court of justice case law, will be addressed in the next report. we will also look into national developments and national case law. in addition, we will have a closer look at plant-related issues such as the prohibition of patenting essentially biological processes, and the breeders’ exception.
the debate was closed with a motion for a resolution tabled by four groups. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 10 may, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions under rule 150 of the rules of procedure.
that concludes this item.
the next item is the report by mr bradbourn, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the future of regional airports and air transport in the eu (2011/2196 (ini)) (a7-0094/2012).
member of the commission. − mr president, i welcome mr bradbourn’s report on the future of regional airports and air services in the eu. it complements the commission’s airport package initiative presented in december last year very well. this aims at ensuring that airports do not become the bottleneck in the success story that is the single european sky. passengers, airlines and also european regions have benefited considerably from the single market in aviation, thanks to which the number of inter-eu routes has doubled over 20 years. airports are fed with traffic from the regional airports, connecting our citizens with the world. point-to-point carriers have changed the landscape of regional airports. charter airlines are linked with major tourist destinations. business aviation is the centre of our business connectivity in europe. we have a vibrant aviation sector which provides growth for the whole continent, including the regions. i will now comment on the main policy areas highlighted in the bradbourn report. the relevant commission dgs are currently looking at the revision of state-aid guidelines on the financing of regional airports and start-up aid to airlines. the role of regional airports in territorial cohesion and in interconnecting eu regions and countries must remain a guiding principle of the review of the compatibility conditions, but we cannot ignore the fact that unlawful public subsidies distort competition at several levels between airlines and between airports. we need to agree on common and simple rules on a matter that affects the sustainability of the eu aviation market. your report will certainly be taken into account in the ongoing review. some airlines restrict the number of pieces of hand luggage carried on board by imposing the so-called ‘one bag’ rule on passengers. passengers seem to be confused by varying strictness in the application of such policies by ground staff. the commission will study luggage allowances in the context of the ongoing impact assessment on revision of the air passenger rights regulation no 261/2004. the commission has launched a public consultation which provides an opportunity for interested parties to contribute. regarding the impact on retail sales in airports, this is mainly a question of business-to-business relations between airlines, airports and retailers. if there are competition issues, these should be addressed, but not via legislation designed to protect passengers. the report expresses concerns regarding the proposed revision of the slot regulation. i want to reassure you, on behalf of commissioner kallas, that the objective is certainly not to price regional air services out of the market but to ensure more efficient use of existing airport capacity. in preparing the legislation, the commission has discounted options such as slot confiscation and slot auctioning precisely because of their negative impact on regional air services. discussions on this proposal are now ongoing in the council and in parliament. intermodality is at the heart of our transport policy. the report calls for regional airports to be taken into account in the future trans-european transport network policy. ensuring these airports are properly connected to the whole transport network is at the heart of the ten-t policy, but we need to go beyond infrastructure. we need the technology and innovative services and we will continue working on integrated ticketing, the concept of a pan-european multi-modal planning, ticketing and billing system for passenger transport. i thank parliament for its continued interest and support. the commission is aware of the practice of certain airlines of adding a number of charges onto the headline price of air tickets. the report mentions charges for the use of debit or credit cards, which are now widely applied. the commission will shortly publish a study on air ticket price transparency provisions in eu law. some airlines impose fees which vary by payment type. although in all cases a free means of payment is offered, this may not be readily available to the majority of customers. we will have to discuss this issue with member state authorities to see what can or cannot be allowed under existing legislation. airports are important as our gates to europe and to the world and they are also important growth engines. we all come from different regions of europe and we all know how important airports can be for the connectivity of a remote region. they are essential for european connectivity. let me conclude by thanking you for an interesting debate on this very important topic. the commission is looking forward to further follow-up in the context of the discussions on the airport package.
the debate is closed. i would point out that an error has been made in mr bradbourn's report concerning recital f in all the language versions. the vote will take place on thursday, 10 may, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i am speaking this morning on behalf of my colleague, mrs ines ayala sender, who is on the delegation to algeria to observe the elections and who cannot therefore be here as rapporteur to give a discharge to the other institutions. i want to send the good news first: we are asking for the discharge of most of the other institutions. we have had some difficulty in discharging the economic and social committee, because although various demands of the european parliament have been met here on questions of travel expenses and similar problems which are constantly causing excitement in the media, we are concerned that within the esc - i would say this with caution - there have been disputes over certain staff decisions, which we are concerned about. the rapporteur has expressed her concerns in committee and we will continue to monitor the situation, but this does not prevent us from finally requesting discharge. it's a little different with the council. first of all, i should like to express my satisfaction and my satisfaction that the danish presidency of the council is giving us the pleasure of following this debate for the first time as a member of this parliament. it is a very encouraging sign that we are coming out of the phase of mutual non-perception in the debate, and i want to return to that point at the end of my remarks. we are experiencing the same situation that we all know from the movie "the day the groom died" only annually. that is to say, we are going to relieve the council of its responsibility for the management of the budget, at least in so far as it uses eu funds, i.e. the general budget. we're going through the documents, we're asking questions. but these questions are not answered by the council. we have instead received an offer from the council to negotiate an interinstitutional agreement - which is welcome, at least in my view, because i do not take the situation personally - mr welle! - and i have considered it a difficult situation for the secretaries-general of the two institutions to negotiate with each other, and this without a political mandate, because they have taken too little account of the wishes and positions of the committee responsible, in my view. we have therefore put on the table the proposal for an interinstitutional agreement, and my group is of the opinion that we should try the possibilities of this interinstitutional agreement. unfortunately, we are in the minority in this house because most of my colleagues are of the opinion that the documents describe the tasks sufficiently. i would like to stress once again that it is not the position of the s&e group to waive the right and responsibility of the discharge authority, but that it is the position of the s&e group to try out how far we can go with the council when it comes to negotiating this interinstitutional agreement. the main problem is reciprocity, because the council insists on examining our audit as parliament, so to speak, to the extent that we get answers from the council. one last thing, madam president: the red line for parliament is certainly to say that we cannot accept that officials from the member states control the popular representation which expresses the will of the european citizens. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the environment committee is responsible for the budget lines for the environment, public health and food safety, representing 0,76% of the union budget. we were very satisfied with the overall execution rates: in the area of environment and climate, 99.26% of the funds have been committed, and in the life programme, our flagship and sole financial instrument for the environment, 99.4%. the rate was also over 99% in the health sector. all the information available leads us to recommend that the commission should be given a discharge. ladies and gentlemen, for seven and a half years i have been working with agencies in various capacities. i have known for seven and a half years that the decentralised agencies in europe are doing the work, the tasks, that have been entrusted to them by the legislator, the parliament and the council, in an ordinary legislative procedure. for the last seven and a half years, i've seen the agencies come under intense public scrutiny. the committees are now fulfilling their responsibility to exercise political control over the agencies better than ever. we want to know what the staff in the agencies are doing, what is happening with the funds from the community budget. the budgetary procedure does not involve the drawing up of the agencies' budgets lightly, nor does it involve the distribution of discharge certificates. however, in these seven and a half years i have not yet seen how half-truths, innuendoes and misinformation have been used in the course of the discharge procedure to create an atmosphere of mistrust and suspicion towards the agencies and the people working in them. that's not worthy of the normal way of working in this house. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget. i certainly support criticism of the excessive carryovers to the next year, of the very high cost of meetings of the board of directors, but it is not a sufficient reason to postpone discharge. i can only recommend to all of us with seven and a half years of agency experience that we do not base our discharge decision on this unfortunate mixture of half-truths, misinformation and innuendo. we can confidently give discharge to all agencies without exception on the basis of the information at our disposal.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i am voting in favour of the discharge for europol and eurojust. on europol: there is little, almost nothing to complain about. the financial statements reflect in all material respects the financial situation in 2010 and all underlying transactions are in compliance with the law and therefore legal. the only thing that stands out is the high level of the transfers in relation to the overall low level of the costs actually incurred. europol attributes this to the move to a new headquarters - which is understandable, of course. but europol says it will take further steps in the future to avoid such high transfers. europol also intends to commit itself to monitoring the implementation of the budget on a monthly basis from 2012. i suggest we check if that's really happening. in this context, i recommend that europol be discharged. on eurojust: here too, the annual accounts reflect in all material respects the financial situation in 2010. all transactions are legal and regulated here as well. but here, too, high operating expenses were carried over to 2011. the main reasons for this were, at the time of eurojust's creation, an organisational structure project a new computer infrastructure and data processing costs. it is announced that in the future, all this will be improved, including better compliance with tender requirements. i would recommend that we look at this in future and above all that we look at whether all the vacancies will be filled in the future. it's been improved. but if these posts are not filled soon, we would almost have to consider cutting funds and that would be bad for eurojust. i still recommend the discharge.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to comment on the subject of development aid. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i would like to express my gratitude to the court of auditors for the many very useful suggestions it has made on this subject. i would also like to thank commissioner piebalgs, who is increasingly trying to deal with the question of budgetary aid in a sensible way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, we must really come to a conclusion on aid. i say this every time, every time we give discharge, that we must finally put all development aid expenditure together in the commission budget, and not just because we do not want to go over the 1% threshold. the money's being spent. the question is whether they will be coordinated, concluded and spent jointly and, in the end, not only controlled but also co-designed by the european parliament. i also think it is necessary to consider the question of long-term and short-term measures in the context of development aid. we need long-term measures that are sustainable and produce long-term, visible, constructive improvements in the countries concerned. of course, we also need short-term measures to provide short-term relief in the event of disasters - earthquakes or similar events. however, in the case of long-term projects, one must not allow the projects in question to be seen as a little more relaxed, perhaps because the conditions in the country are not so special. our projects must have a purpose, otherwise the money is wasted!
i have to say, madam president, mrs andreasen has just called on the european taxpayer to stop sending money to brussels because nobody here is supposedly interested in spending. the opposite is true. this plenary is very interested in the spending practices of the eu institutions and in what happens to the money of the european taxpayer. the problem is that we come to different evaluations than mrs. andreasen. the s&d group has a very different view of the situation of the european agencies. i would like to make this clear in the case of the european medicines agency. thanks to the work of our rapporteur last year, georgios stavrakakis, the ema now has the most stringent conflict of interest system in the european union. the epp rapporteur concludes that this is not enough and suggests that we postpone the discharge on the grounds that this system must first prove itself. this is exactly the reverse of the burden of proof, as mrs herczog has just pointed out in her contribution. if we are to test the effectiveness of this system, mrs macovei, then that is the task of the next rapporteur, mr gerbrandy of the liberal group. if we see that the system is not working, we will make adjustments. but to insist in such a situation that there is no discharge until the system has been proven to work, that puts the burden of proof on its head. i am not sure i understand what you are saying, madam president, when you say that this is not about damaging the agencies. the damage has already been done! we only need to look at the media coverage of your report, which says that there is no independence of stakeholders or experts in the agencies in principle. that's the damage you're saying you don't want to do. no, we actually have a problem. the problem we have is that we can't find independent reporters, independent experts, because you're going to find it hard to find the university professors who haven't worked in industry. it is also the role of the agencies to work with the private sector on this. we must not forget that the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the council of ministers. but the discharge, mrs macovei, is not working. that is why we will not follow your report.
question for the commissioner: i would like to say that i agree with many of the points you have made. but i have a question to ask you on the occasion of the european court of auditors' finding that the united kingdom is responsible for 10% of the errors in cohesion policy: what is the conservative party of great britain doing to correct this mismanagement by british administrations?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to make a comment on the development fund, and i am confident that we will find a common position on this subject not only in the committee but also in the plenary. this debate - and it is certainly important to mention this - is taking place under a particular sign, under the sign of a difficult period of economic and financial crisis within the european union and, in fact, worldwide. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we all want the budget to be implemented correctly, in a meaningful way and above all - and i say this especially in the case of the edf - in a sustainable way. the edf is our main instrument for reducing poverty, so it is in the european union's own best interests to prevent wars and also to give people a future. i am absolutely convinced that this is also the view of the citizens and the taxpayers. the social democrats support the report on which we voted in committee. but it is also only after our amendments have been adopted and the report has been given a slightly different direction, because sensible and necessary criticism is right. but as mrs herczog has already said, there has been an attempt to politicise the matter, for example in the criticism of the un. of course, the un must become more efficient and above all more transparent. but it's also a very important partner for our work and has a very helpful infrastructure. we must definitely train the offices and build up the capacity, because only then can we do efficient work. i would like to stress this and to conclude by saying that we need a common assessment of the error rate and, of course, a different agricultural policy.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, mr president of the court of auditors! welcome to the club. we are delighted that you are taking part in this first round of the discharge debate. it's like christmas and easter all in one day for us. this is something very special today and i would like to emphasize it again. i should like to take this opportunity to address myself first to the president of the european court of auditors. the debate has shown that, in the case of agencies, we really need your special report on the benchmarking of agencies. you have informed the president of parliament that you are unable to do this report for staff reasons. i would ask you very sincerely to give us that report. this is a useful report, and we in the working party on agencies have been and are very much counting on it. i would ask you again to give us this report, especially since the figures we have are very promising. we need those numbers! please give it to us! and we need your opinion on the issue of conflicts of interest in the agencies! what we are witnessing here is already akin to civil war for the european parliament. i would simply point out that there are reasons for criticising the agencies. there has been criticism of three agencies out of 32, so three agencies where we and our rapporteur see problems. i would like to express my support for the rapporteur on one point, namely the environment agency. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we've discovered things here, and the longer you think about it, the more questions you have to ask. it is not right that an agency should give grants to a non-governmental organization, that this non-governmental organization should hold seminars in remote parts of the world and that the staff of this agency should be invited to these seminars. well, i don't think that's right! if you think that's okay, so much the worse! i think we need to do something here. i would also like to address the council: you speak of mutual screening. but the fact is that parliament gives the discharge, you give the recommendation. that is why we had another fine debate yesterday in the course of the budgetary procedure. we need an interpretation of article 319 of the treaty and article 335 on the autonomy of the institutions. we have put forward proposals to that effect. but it would be up to you to comment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are discussing the 2010 budget today, the court of auditors' report on it. the report shows what is pleasing and what is less so: light and shadow. on the one hand, the error rate for funds directly controlled and managed by the eu commission is decreasing, particularly in the agricultural policy, where positive results were achieved with an error rate of 2.3%. on the other hand, in cohesion policy we have, as we have for years, had the child of our troubles with a rate of error of 7.7%, and two thirds of these errors should have been corrected by the member states. we must not stop at this point and urge the member states to reduce this error rate. i should like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks to mr šemeta, both on behalf of the alde group and as chairman of the committee, for the excellent cooperation he has shown, and to the president of the court of auditors. i would like to express my support for the fact that the danish presidency is also represented in the council by minister wammen. the cooperation with the commission and the court of auditors is exemplary. the cooperation with the council, mr minister wammen, needs to be improved and that is on the council's part. and i would ask and encourage you to pass this on to the other members of the council. we as a parliament expect that the use of resources in the shared competence will be improved, that the council will now approach parliament in the trilogue, so that we can reduce the error rates in the future. we must finally make progress on the discharge to the council. there can be no public expenditure that is not subject to democratic control! "no taxation without representation" was the battle cry of the american revolution. democracy says no public spending without democratic control. and if you refer to the principle of reciprocity, then that is not true in the area of the relationship between the council and parliament, no, the lisbon treaty clearly states that the council recommends, but parliament decides. this is not reciprocity, this is not symmetry, this is asymmetry, and here it is a question of giving parliament its right as the directly elected body of the citizens.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. dear martin, it's very convenient that i can answer your question right away. i am aware that this is not a question of refusing discharge. but if the rapporteur, in her report on discharge to the agencies, raises objections to agencies which are in part outside the responsibility of these bodies, because the composition of certain bodies which you have rightly described as inflated is the responsibility of the member states, then in october there will be no choice but to refuse discharge, because this situation will not have changed, because the member states will not have changed their behaviour towards the agencies. that is why the political instruments are not appropriate. the s&d group is really the last group that would not take conflicts of interest seriously. the case just mentioned by commissioner šemeta is one which, so to speak, sheds a fresh light on the situation. but the problem of postponing discharge is not solved. i have repeatedly argued in the committee that the question must be resolved in such a way that we should wait for the report of the european court of auditors, which president caldeira has thankfully announced to us, and then come to conclusions on the basis of a detailed set of facts, which we can then seriously discuss. i am in the process of condemning situations, such as the question you also raised of the choice of seat of agencies. i myself have criticised in a press statement the fact that the british government is forcing us to set up an agency in canary wharf. this is the most expensive real estate market the european union has to offer. this is the same government that is proposing austerity measures to the eu. she should just start making her own decisions. in this respect, there is much less disagreement on the question of criticality than might appear. there is controversy about what the political response is.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to call on the epp group to vote now. we had two months to study the subject intensively. there was a lot of discussion between the groups. now, in the last few days, the pressure of the genetic engineering lobby has added to the confusion. we believe that the matter has been discussed and that a decision can be made. two arguments: the citizens expect us to give them signals on how we are going to deal with bio-patents, and the patent office also expects clear signals from parliament on how to implement the legislation in force today. that's why we should decide today!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since there is some confusion in my group about what we are voting on, i would point out that this is a reference to the warf judgment of the european patent office, in which we want the entire technical doctrine of the application to be respected. it is not about stem cells, and they have absolutely no place in this resolution.
in writing. −in june 2007, the european parliament adopted a first regulation on roaming on german mobile networks. we have thus strengthened the internal market in mobile services in a positive way. in particular, we have brought down the high prices for roaming. however, the commission's interim report of july 2011 showed that consumers are still not actually offered tariffs below the maximum prices. this is why we want to strengthen competition and tackle the structural problems in the mobile communications market. the trilog has now produced really good results, providing a certain incentive for consumers and market participants to increase competition and thus lower prices in the long term. for border residents in particular, it should be emphasised that 'involuntary roaming' is made more difficult in the short term by informing users how to avoid this 'expensive pleasure' and how to use their phones without roaming. it should be noted that this must be done in a non-bureaucratic manner and that recovery must be simple. i will monitor this closely and will include any negative elements that may emerge over time in the review report to be submitted by the eu commission by 2016.
in writing. - i voted for the report. it is clear that market forces have not been able to achieve fair prices in crossborder telephony in the context of economic competition. it is therefore right that the european parliament should intervene and set ceilings on roaming charges. however, it is only a step in the right direction, so that competition will also take hold in this area, leading to significant price reductions, perhaps even making roaming charges completely unnecessary. the timing of this decision is right: before the summer travel season begins.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 10 may 2012.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. before i make any further announcements, i would like to draw your attention to two things that i recommend to your attention. we have witnessed a brutal crime against a school in italy. the school is named after francesca morvillo falcone, the widow of former judge falcone, who was herself the victim of a cowardly assassination attempt. now, two girls have also been killed in a previously unexplained attack at the same school: melissa, a 16-year-old girl, was killed. another girl, veronica, is fighting for her life these hours. many other young girls have been seriously injured, some of them as victims of a bombing, the details of which are not known at this stage. but what i do know, ladies and gentlemen, is that in more or less every session in the last few months, i have been in the difficult situation of having to report here on the killing of children and young people. there was certainly an unwritten rule for a very long time, even for the most despicable criminals, that the killing of children must be avoided, that children and adolescents should not be killed. that was a red line that most people stuck to. but we are finding that there are more and more cases where this red line is crossed, where out of blindness, out of confusion, out of fanaticism of an ideological, religious or even criminal nature either children are actively killed, young people are killed or their death is accepted. i think i speak for all of you when i say that we have nothing but contempt for people who commit such acts. (applause from the centre) so our thoughts are with the families and friends of the girl melissa was killed. we give our best wishes to veronica, who is fighting for her life, and our thoughts are with the students, parents and teachers at the school, who are going through such a bitter day. let me also say that the tragic events in emilia romagna have shocked us in the last few hours. another severe earthquake has struck italy. emilia romagna is hard hit, the town of finale emilia in a special way. seven people have lost their lives, according to the latest statistics, many are seriously injured, over 3,000 are homeless. we must also show solidarity and sympathy with these people. but let me also say a word to the italian people: whoever has seen the pictures of solidarity in the last few days - both in emilia romagna and with the victims in brindisi - can only pay a compliment to the italian people. there are times when a people moves together. italy is in a difficult situation. i would like to express my deepest appreciation to the italians, on behalf of the european parliament, for the way in which national solidarity is being shown during these hours. (applause from the centre)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on wednesday 16 may, pursuant to rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday: no changes. tuesday and thursday: the groups agreed to move the oral question on the trade agreement with colombia and peru from thursday to tuesday afternoon and to move the report by mr kazak on macrofinancial assistance to third countries from tuesday afternoon to thursday. wednesday: no changes.
mrs lulling, you know that the agenda is subject to the wise advice of the group chairmen. i'll tell the gentlemen in question that you prefer milk production to homophobia, and i hope the gentlemen will have some insight.
mr. audy, you've got me on the wrong foot. i will inquire and tell you why mr van rompuy is not coming. but you're right about the principle. mr van rompuy should be here. mr swoboda, do you know?
i shall put it this way and explain parliament's position in the necessary form, at least until the family photo. (the agenda is therefore adopted.)
the next item is the report by mr busuttil, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the single market indicator (2011/2155 (ini)) (a7-0153/2012).
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to thank mr busuttil for the work he has done personally on this report, with the support and understanding of all the members of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - i am thinking of malcolm harbour and the coordinator, whom i also thank. ladies and gentlemen, we are in a serious moment of crisis - the financial crisis that is not over, the economic crisis that has many human, social and economic consequences. in this period of crisis, we can see, mr president, that many citizens are suffering, are affected by unemployment. many are angry and expressing anger, and the internal market which we are talking about in mr busuttil's report is in a rather paradoxical situation where it could be, if we are not careful, the first victim of this anger, of national retreat, sometimes of nationalist reflexes, the first victim of protectionism. at the same time, the internal market, the single market, is the first chance, the main asset we have to get out of this crisis, if this internal market works better. that is why what we have done since the monti report, since the louis grech report, with the support of parliament, this single market act, of which governance is an integral part, these 50 proposals and soon, mr president, a dozen new proposals to relaunch the competitive social market economy, must, in my view, be part of the european growth initiative which the heads of state and government will be debating this week. i have long felt that sound public financial management on the one hand and growth on the other, in particular growth with the internal market, are not only compatible but also that they must be pursued together. that is why i am glad that mr busuttil has stressed how the internal market is indeed that reservoir of growth. we think that if it works better in terms of mobility, exports, trade, investment, social entrepreneurship, services, e-commerce, we could in our internal market, in ourselves, go for two, three or four additional growth points. this is what the governance of the internal market is all about: making this area of 500 million citizens and consumers and 22 million businesses, the vast majority of which are small and medium-sized enterprises, work better. these citizens and small and mediumsized enterprises need to have tools that are closer to them and more effective, if they are to participate in this internal market. that is what we want to do with solvit, with the your europe portal, with eu pilot, with the imi system and also with the european consumer centres. this governance work starts with the scoreboard, that is to say the picture of what is working and what is not working well, this scoreboard which we produce on the commission side twice a year. this table gives a precise measure of the transposition and implementation of internal market legislation in each member state. it must be more effective, with figures that speak for themselves and that provide the member states with incentives to continue their efforts. this is also emphasized in mr busuttil's report. ladies and gentlemen, this internal market scoreboard is not the only rope, the only tool, we have when it comes to monitoring the rules of the internal market for europeans. the crisis i mentioned earlier calls for us to learn from certain failures in each of our member states and to find ways of making new efforts. this is what we have undertaken, in the interests of transparency and greater cooperation with you, the european parliament, the member states, to take stock of the governance of the single market every year. we did this first exercise on february 27th. this first assessment paves the way for a communication which we will publish at the next european council in june, as the european council had invited us to do, on the possibilities of strengthening the proper implementation of internal market legislation. i would like to draw two broad lines for this communication: the implementation of this legislation and growth. we cannot make new rules, you and we, without worrying about their proper application on the ground. legislation that is not enforced is not only useless, it is often counterproductive. it creates imbalances between a country and its neighbours, who can apply it correctly. it undermines growth and job creation by limiting opportunities for citizens and businesses. that is why we have proposed in the single market act to reduce the 'tolerated' shortfall in transposition of the rules in the member states from 1% to 0.5%. i am glad that mr busuttil has echoed this proposal. we cannot be satisfied with a european average of 1.2% of the transposition deficit, or even, in one member state, a figure of 1.7%. the commission is currently undertaking a number of initiatives, in conjunction with the member states, to improve and streamline the application of internal market legislation. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i went - as i had promised to do before parliament - to each of the capitals to meet all the national officials who are responsible for all the internal market legislation - the services directive, the vocational qualifications directive, the procurement directive, the electronic commerce directive, etc. - to have direct contact with them. we have therefore set up a task force of 700 civil servants who are responsible for these laws in the various member states, so that we can work with more confidence and efficiency. i shall continue this round of capitals by going now beyond capitals to each of the regions, since in each region there are, economically speaking, companies, trade unions, non-governmental organisations, local authorities and actors important to the single market. i shall report on the first conclusions of this tour of capitals and countries in my communication for june. finally, we believe that these internal market tools, these instruments of assistance and information, must be put to the service of citizens and businesses. we have a number of tools that have been developed to provide more transparency and clarity in information. but some of these tools were developed in a kind of messy way. so now we have to put things back together and make them more efficient. we will continue to develop the 'your europe' portal, with a user manual for europe for citizens and businesses. i also particularly want, as you do, to improve the functioning of solvit in each member state, which is an online problem solving tool and a european network of national administrations, and which i believe is a priority. ladies and gentlemen, this year we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of the single market. we've heard it said before that this birthday, especially right now, shouldn't be nostalgic or melancholy. it must be dynamic and proactive for the growth that citizens expect, with tangible benefits for their daily lives. this is also the spirit of the pact for better governance of the single market to which we are calling on the member states. each in his own role, the governments, the european parliament, the council and, of course, the commission, we must make this 20th anniversary, i insist, the moment of a new dynamic, of a new impetus for the single market. that is why i also hope that we can talk about this in a transparent and sincere way, not only among ourselves but also with the actors in each of our countries, whom i mentioned earlier. this will be the spirit of this single market week, which will take up the idea of the forum which we succeeded in setting up at your initiative in krakow, but by developing it in each of the member states, during the week of 15 to 20 october next, during which we will solemnly mark in the european parliament the 20th anniversary of the single market, but we will also debate what is going well and what is not going well in each of the member states. how can some obstacles be removed? how can fragmentation be avoided? how can we quickly implement together the 50 proposals we have included in the single market act? how to develop new proposals based on those you will make yourself. there is a lot of work to be done in the single market. this will be my priority, together with you, and it is also what the citizens expect because the great demand at the moment, with all the risks of retreat or protectionism that i mentioned earlier, is that we find jobs, competitiveness and growth.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think we all agree here that the single market must not, as the commissioner has just said, become the first victim of the crisis, but that, on the contrary, we must do everything possible, twenty years after the creation of this single market, to ensure that it really follows the uniform rules which we all here claim to be working out. i would therefore like to thank mr busuttil very much for his work on this report in the committee on the internal market, because the internal market index is always the annual barometer in the european parliament, in principle, to show where the internal market is. but, ladies and gentlemen, twenty years after the creation of the european internal market, we must ask ourselves on this occasion and also at the celebrations we will have at the end of the year what has been achieved in these twenty years and what can possibly be improved. i think that mr busuttil's report on the single market indicator shows very clearly what is still lacking in this single market. in general, there is a lack of transparency. there are basically two problems with the implementation of legislation relating to the internal market: firstly, non-implementation and then there is the fine figure that has just been mentioned again, with the one per cent criterion, which only a very few member states in europe meet. but i think that figure is misleading beyond how badly the internal market and its acquis are actually being applied in some member states, because there is a second problem, and that is not the non-implementation of european law, but the incorrect or inadequate implementation of european law. i think - and i firmly believe - that we simply need more transparency at this point. it is not helpful for us to be told by the european commission's legal service that infringement proceedings would have to be conducted behind closed doors. we need more publicity about what is wrong in the individual member states, what is not being implemented correctly, and why the member states are not taking prompt action when the european commission asks them to do so. i therefore find mr busuttil's proposal to create a category for so-called fast track procedures extremely positive. secondly, i can say from my eight years of experience in the european parliament that in many directives and regulations, and particularly in directives, members and even the commission often do not know how previous directives have been transposed into national law. the european parliament has often asked that we should require a correlation table from the member states when new legislation is introduced. i think we should not just wish it, but try to use the 2004 acquis, where we have correlation tables for all the new member states as of 2004, as a basis for drawing up a correlation table for the old member states as of 2004 - perhaps with our own funding, because we could shed more light on the matter. i believe that this debate on the governance of the internal market is just beginning and i am therefore delighted to be actively involved in this debate.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. it is further proof of the importance of parliament setting the agenda on important issues. so i thank you, mr busuttil, for this very balanced report. the subject is more topical than ever, because in addition to the implementation of the things we envisioned twenty years ago, when the single market was created, as the engine of european integration, we also see that there are imbalances in the single market. the imbalances in current account balances are also one reason why the euro area as a whole has been in a bad position. the european single market as a whole is also in danger of losing its legitimacy, its role as a driving force, if we do not pay particular attention to this event now, on the occasion of its 20th anniversary. the internal market indicator, the scoreboard, could be a useful tool to identify shortcomings in the sense of an early warning system, to point out shortcomings at a very early stage. it would be a first big step towards a finally coordinated economic policy. i therefore welcome the european commission's plans to publish this single market indicator annually. so the problem here is to square the circle. on the one hand, the economies that have made their labour markets fit through appropriate reforms, those that implement earlier, must of course not be penalized for their performance. on the other hand, even the best in class may not care if the neighbor owes more than he can afford to pay for his products. the first step would be to speed up the implementation of the eu's internal market rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. in addition, there are differences in the speed of implementation. in may 2011, member states still needed an average of 5.5 months after the transposition deadline to implement eu directives, whereas today it is almost eight months. this time period must be shortened if equal opportunities are to be achieved. conclusion: member states need to do better in meeting their obligations and show more commitment and commitment to the enforcement of european legislation. however, it should also be noted that twenty years of the single market have led to a dramatic increase in the differences in economic competitiveness in the european union. the current account balance between the strongest and now the weakest economies has shifted dramatically in favour of the stronger ones. the low interest rate policy since the introduction of the euro has accelerated this development, like a fire accelerator. we europeans have relied on the healing power of the internal market, but we have ignored the fact that the internal market policy has not necessarily improved competitiveness in the area. we must counterbalance this, commissioner. the scoreboard gives you a way to do that. the 20th anniversary of the eu single market also provides an opportunity to look at the concept of more balanced current account balances at national level, and perhaps even, in a further step, at regional level, in addition to the completion of the single market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european sovereign debt crisis shows that the north and the south will block each other if we do not solve this problem in the medium term. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the single market indicator can be a crucial starting point, but it must not become a toothless tiger. let us use the single market week to reflect on this. but let us also use this twentieth anniversary of the single market to make us europeans as a whole - not just the strong ones in the north, but all of us together - fit for the future!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i was able to speak last week at a german-french partnership event to mark the 20th anniversary of the completion of the internal market. it was interesting how the guests reacted to that. they all took it for granted, and it is good that the citizens take it for granted. the four fundamental freedoms are at the heart of the european union, and i hope that we will all fight together as a parliament against attempts to build new barriers, new borders and barriers, as the german government and the old french government have tried to do with new barriers, because the free movement of citizens is at least as important to us as the free movement of capital or goods. i think mr busuttil's report is good and helpful. the single market indicator, solvit and other instruments are useful in determining whether governments really want european legislation and whether deficits are actually being reduced, as the council has agreed. we want the single market to be simplified for the citizens. we want to make it easier for smes to access it, and we want all citizens to benefit from it. interestingly, implementation does not always depend on the size of the country. it has already been mentioned that malta is the best placed, belgium is not quite as well. the commission's proposal is also interesting, mr busuttil, and i have great sympathy for it, but i must say that we have a few other requests in your report which already include this, for example article 18 for the public or article 24, where we are calling for correlation tables, or article 21, which is about the european court of justice being able to work faster. so maybe we should work on that first. i would like to emphasize four points for the social democrats. firstly, the implementation must be correct, that is, it must not be gold plated, but it must not be lax and inadequate. mr chatzimarkakis, if you will listen for a moment: the two liberal houses of the german federal government are currently trying to work on the payment directive, and the first rumours i have heard do not bode well. secondly, the single market is also a means of overcoming the crisis, creating jobs and contributing to growth. thirdly, we find the procedures for the social protection of workers too cumbersome, because that is what we are concerned about - and that is the only criticism i have, mr barnier - that social cohesion is somewhat lacking in this dossier. we will insist on this, because we are in a very good tradition of social cohesion. i would like to conclude by quoting your former colleague, jacques delors, who said that the internal market operates on three principles: competition, which stimulates, cooperation, which strengthens, and solidarity, which unites.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i was a little surprised by some of the comments made in the debate, for example by mr gustafsson of the left, who is sadly no longer here, when he said that the single market had driven people into poverty and served only the big corporations. i can only say that he should come to my constituency. there are no large companies in my constituency. my constituency lives on this single market, and there are many small and mediumsized enterprises that benefit from it. they would not have the same sales opportunities in a world without the single market. i am therefore able to say clearly from my constituency that this view is grossly wrong. secondly, in the debate mrs weiler pointed out that she felt that the implementation of the late payment directive was somewhat out of date in germany too. i can only say to you, mrs weiler, that we will do everything possible, no matter who is in power in germany, to ensure that the directives adopted in this house, with the democratic participation of the european co-legislator, the council and thus a german federal minister, are implemented in germany as they should be. finally, i would like to return to a point which has not been discussed much in this debate, but which is contained in the report by mr busuttil. if we come to more regulations - and the commission has thankfully made some proposals in the single market act where we legislate in the european single market by means of the regulation - we will take away the scope for implementation from the member states, but we will create uniformity in the application of the law. i think that is something we should pay much more attention to in the future if we are to succeed in reducing the implementation deficit in this single market. i would like to remind you, mr commissioner, that the epp group attaches particular importance to the fact that we should examine very carefully where we should use the means of the directive and where we should use the means of the regulation in order to achieve the best results in this internal market.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not so firstly, there is either a uniform eu visa regime and a binding reciprocity mechanism for all member states, then the commission as guardian of the treaties must also fight hard to see that this is implemented. if not, then the commission has been tolerating a two-tier system of eu citizens for many years, and that is something which is totally unacceptable to us as a group. we call on the commission to clarify this problem immediately and before the agreement with the canadians is concluded. otherwise, the reciprocity mechanism must apply. that's the first thing. but at the same time we must take ourselves seriously, and i ask: will the new visa regulation at least strengthen the reciprocity mechanism? is that so? can it be prevented that such practices as those in canada do not occur in the future? and all i can say is, no. it turns out that visa policy continues to be used as a means of pressure against migration. the third point: let us talk about the population group that is often mentioned when we talk about the czech republic, bulgaria and romania. they are roma. a lot of roma have gone to canada, and the czech republic argues that canada is to blame for this. the commission has also been working with the european parliament to develop a new approach to the problem of asylum. that is canada's argument, and they are not doing anything about it. on the contrary, they even support it by saying: yes, how can eu citizens go to third countries and apply for asylum? why do you think? because roma in the eu have miserable living conditions, a situation we have known for many years, full of discrimination and exclusion, so it is not surprising that people go to canada, for example. for me, this is also a kind of lex roma, and in that sense, whoever really wants to change something in the matter, whoever wants to prevent immigration, must improve the living conditions in their own country. we should take care of that.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by thanking mr cornelis de jong very warmly for his commitment. he did it very well and very well balanced, and i think it's great that we've gotten closer to the content things in small steps. i have to agree with him on this point, and it is good to see that in fact criminal law has developed differently in each member state, and that is why we need different approaches, and it is the strongest argument we have here to restrict certain fundamental rights, and that is why we should also approach this very carefully - in procedural matters, but also in substantive criminal law. i think it is therefore worthwhile to consider whether we should not also develop a concept along these lines, so that we do not start with the european investigation order first and then deal with the principles, but rather start in a different way. so i would ask that we approach this more conceptually, rather than doing the last thing first and the first thing actually at the end.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank mrs malmström. i want to blow the same horn as mr. voss. i think it is really urgent that we - and this is also clear from the good report by mr de jong - finally need a coordinated strategy on how we design and harmonise criminal law so that it does not just always go ahead in areas where there are short-term interests, but that it also deals with the long-term problem of having a coherent criminal justice system. it would be a good idea if you and your colleague from the judiciary were to think together about how we can move this forward together, because we have repeatedly had difficulty in making this combination of both perspectives clear, particularly to the council. we will see with the inquiry order, with the minimum standards in criminal proceedings, that of course there are also difficulties in bringing together the perspectives of parliament and the council. the commission could certainly play an important and mediating role in this. that's what i'm asking you to do.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it has often been said that smes are the heart of the european union's economy, and they are. we're doing a lot of that, too. i think that's also something very special because unlike other large economies, we actually have smaller companies that are competitive in the global economy and also flexible to adapt to new conditions. this is what makes smes so special in the european union. and we support them. they are not only at the heart of structural policy in the next funding period, but they are already at the heart of it today. we have done a lot to make it easier for them to access the structural funds. but i think there's definitely potential to improve this, to simplify it. when a small business gets a loan at low interest rates, it is not necessary to fill out thick forms. i think we can still improve on that. but i also believe that smes should be brought closer to linking economic growth and innovative approaches to economic development with the fight against youth unemployment through a smart approach. commissioner hahn said in a previous debate that if every company in europe employed just one young person, there would be no problem of youth unemployment in principle. he's got a point there. now i am not saying that we should insist that there is only money from the european union if one or two young people are employed. it would remind me of my gdr past, which could not help me organize it. but to create a smart project, to actually give young people training opportunities and then also jobs in a company that may have been funded by the european union - i think it's worth thinking about how such a project can be implemented. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. i must also say that i do not want to see a mere take-away effect for companies, but that we really need to achieve sustainable growth and a sustainable fight against unemployment. i have one request to make to the commission, however: i know that the commission is currently reviewing competition law. it would be very useful here not to split up regions, not to have completely different funding levels in one region the organised bureaucracy, the organised a clear difficulty in accessing funding. i hope that the commission will come up with a correspondingly positive proposal and not tear the regions apart.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not one of the biggest problems for smes is access to finance. the commission's cohesion policy is designed to remedy this. there are the various programmes, they have been mentioned. a study by the ep on the impact of the effectiveness of structural funds and other measures targeting regional smes has, however, clearly revealed the weaknesses: no distinction between different types of small and medium-sized enterprises - think of micro-enterprises, but also of the self-employed, high bureaucratic hurdles in applying for funds and reporting and auditing obligations, need for pre-financing of projects, lack of harmonisation of rules and procedures across different support programmes. this leads me to make a few requests to the commission: we should be able to simplify access to structural funds. we need to get better access to jeremie. we have a capital overrun of 50,000 euros. we need to relax the requirement for prefinancing projects. we need to make the financial resources more targeted to the different types of smes, to reduce the need for co-financing, to close the financing gap between the different depreciation cycles. we need more support for helping smes to help themselves with financing. the chambers could make a contribution here. we must strengthen smes equity ; that's the condition for them to get money from the banks at all. and here, commissioner, it is of course also very important that basel iii be implemented in such a way that it does not hinder lending to small and mediumsized enterprises, but creates the possibilities to obtain loans as smoothly and on the most favourable terms as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the colleagues who have initiated this debate have asked in their ninth question whether it would not be right to reconsider the co-financing requirements for eu programmes targeting smes. i think that's a very good question. however, we must then clearly address the context, which is that if we now soften the definition of smes by including so-called mid caps, then less will be distributed to smes for which the funds were not sufficient before. secondly, if we reduce the co-financing requirements, then fewer smes will have to share these pots. i am not saying that we should not be able to do this, but we should be able to do it. so the conclusion we have to draw from this discussion is that we cannot see horizon 2020 and cosme spending less money on smes in the future than in ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are talking today about the structural funds, the european union's growth programme, especially in the poorer regions. we do not need to invent new growth funds, as leftwing governments in europe are now calling for. but we must make sure that the 350 billion euros proposed now are allocated in a targeted way and, above all, quickly to the individual and to the regions. we can learn from the practical implementation of european structural policy, namely where competitive procedures were applied, where firms had to apply for eu funds. we have brought more smes into european programmes in the competitive regions than ever before. the european commission has recently published a report on the implementation of the european research area (era) in the field of nanotechnology. these competitions have also been successfully conducted for energy efficiency and sustainable production processes. competition procedures are efficient and they are the opposite of a watering can. we must therefore put this possibility more firmly in the structural funds regulations, as is already the case with the connecting europe infrastructure facility. in the case of small firms, european impulses are often decisive for the creation of new businesses and for international business relations. if we then allocate these funds in competition, we are very close to the market economy, which is known to be very efficient.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the debate on the promotion of small and mediumsized enterprises is a longstanding tradition in this house. what we have heard this morning does not differ much from what we have already exchanged in previous discussions. i think i must say first of all to my colleague vicky ford, whom i listened to, that it is of course not helpful to blame anyone for things not going as we wish. i do not think it is the fault of the european commission that certain things in the development of small and mediumsized enterprises are not going as we all would like. secondly, i do not think that narrowing the discussion to purely financial issues will help us. in any case, in our country, germany - and i think this is not the case only in germany - small and medium-sized enterprises are not so much concerned about the question of financing - of course, this is also a problem in individual cases - but above all because the legislation is no longer comprehensible in its complexity for small and medium-sized enterprises. i therefore believe that the debate on how to define smes better, more precisely and more precisely must be an important concern not only for smes but for legislation in general. the term - mr wammen, you used it too - that we have 99.5% of all companies in the sme sector shows that we simply have a problem, because in principle all companies are affected and therefore there is no targeting. i am therefore very much looking forward to the results of the study by commissioner tajani, who is seeking to redefine this definition. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not the question put by mrs ford is of course entirely along the lines of what i think we should be doing here. i agree with you, mrs ford, that we should have a strong interest in segmenting the concept of smes more closely, because it does not help us to talk about supporting smes all the time, but at the same time to think of smes as representing more than 90% of all companies. it's not gonna work out. i believe, however, that there are very different interests of small and mediumsized enterprises. the very small businesses - sausage shops and the like - have a particular interest in finding legislation that is very straightforward and unbureaucratic. but there are also medium-sized companies in my constituency which are so large that they have a vested interest in funding. we must jointly set the appropriate priorities here, mrs ford.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. do you know mr. hanselmann? if you don't know him, you should get to know him. mr hanselmann founded a company with three colleagues from the university of paderborn twenty years ago. today it has 1,000 employees. he received a start-up loan from the state of north rhine-westphalia for the establishment of the company. this means that government support for small and medium-sized enterprises can help. loans can help. we need a start-up offensive in europe, an offensive for the creation of small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. innovation vouchers can be one way. and we must redistribute the unused funds from the structural and cohesion funds so that, for example, in greece, small and mediumsized enterprises actually receive a loan. but we also need other banking systems. cooperative banks, savings banks, which are not present in the peripheral countries, could be a way. we need both: a solution for the peripheral countries, but also a policy that empowers the strong for highly innovative companies in the richer regions. that's the order of the day.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, honourable members – and yevgenia, it is very nice to see you out there – the european union has expressed its indignation at the use of selective justice in ukraine on a number of occasions over the past year. the statements from brussels and from member states, and the messages passed directly to the authorities in kiev, refer not only to the case of yulia tymoshenko, but also to cases against members of the former government such as mr lutsenko and others. politically motivated justice is a systemic problem in ukraine, and it needs a systemic solution in the shape of comprehensive judicial reform. we have indicated to the ukrainian authorities that a first step towards regaining confidence would be to ensure an environment conducive to ms tymoshenko’s recovery, whether inside or outside ukraine, and i am glad that president schulz and prime minister azarov agreed last week that the european parliament would play an important role in this respect. access to independent visitors is especially important if we are to build a clear picture of former prime minister tymoshenko’s situation, and in this respect i welcome recent visits, including by members of the european parliament. most important, in terms of ms tymoshenko’s legal rights, is that ukraine’s court of cassation should announce its decision on her case at the end of june, and that the european court of human rights can announce its own decision shortly afterwards. this also applies in the case of mr lutsenko, whose sentence was recently upheld on appeal. any future trials should strictly respect the provisions of the new ukrainian code of criminal procedure, thus providing for equality between defence and prosecution, and should operate without pre-trial detention. our concern about selective justice remains strong. last tuesday, at the cooperation council with ukraine, we clearly set out to prime minister azarov how we believe ukraine can get back on the road to political association. the political relationship between the european union and ukraine will not improve without firm commitments and an effective demonstration that the rule of law and respect for fundamental values are applied systematically in ukraine. we have repeatedly stressed to our ukrainian partners that we will not be able to move towards signing our association agreement if they cannot show that they live in the spirit of political association. to this end, we expect ukraine to make visible progress. the recent adoption of the new code of criminal procedure in ukraine was certainly a step forward, and it should improve the quality of future prosecutions and trials. however, ms tymoshenko and other victims of politically motivated justice have already been sentenced. action to reform the criminal code, defining what is to be considered a criminal offence, is needed to get to the heart of this problem. i welcome the initiative taken by president schulz in asking prime minister azarov to accept that a person of high international repute be sent on behalf of the european parliament to observe the second trial, with full access to judges, lawyers and documents. the parliamentary elections in october will also be an important test. we will observe very closely the conditions in which the electoral campaign and the voting process proceed. it is important, if ukraine wants to fulfil its european aspirations, that the elections should be free and fair beyond doubt. i also wish to mention the european parliament resolutions calling on the commission to support judicial reform in ukraine. in december last year the commission signed a financing agreement of eur 10 million with ukraine’s ministry of justice. it aims to accelerate sustainable reforms in the justice sector in ukraine, with a particular focus on criminal justice reforms. we have also recently agreed to engage with ukraine in an informal dialogue on judiciary reform, drawing on the expertise of the council of europe. to summarise, what we expect from ukraine before we can once again move forward is: firstly, a concrete strategy to redress the effect of selective justice and prevent any recurrence of it; secondly, free and fair elections; and thirdly, the resumption of delayed reforms already agreed in the joint eu-ukraine ‘association agenda’ which has now been in force for two years. thank you for your attention. i look forward to hearing your views.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the development of a credible and effectively applied rule of law and democracy and respect for human rights is a prerequisite for a country that wants to have a european perspective. we must see that in ukraine over the last two years we have obviously had a development in the opposite direction: goods have been counterfeited. we have political justice and political cases. opposition leaders are in prison with the background of political motivation of the sentences. i agree with you, commissioner. the question is systemic. it's a systemic issue. but this cannot be done only by formal reforms, but it must also be based on the will, the willingness to apply, the willingness to live by the rule of law and democracy and to draw the consequences from it. you could do that today. we've been discussing the case of yulia tymoshenko, luzhenko and many other cases for almost a year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the postponement of the court of appeal session also seems to me to be one such case, in order to gain time and thus ultimately deprive the opposition politicians of the opportunity to participate in the next elections. that's the crucial point. free and fair elections can only be held if the opposition leadership is able to participate in the elections on equal terms. the judiciary cannot be used to impede this. if you then dissolve things in an appeal court, then introduce new cases which are actually old cases which have already been decided by the supreme court on several occasions, and settle questions relating to the statute of limitations, then that is also an abuse of the rule of law. i would therefore like to agree with you, commissioner. we are in favour of the association agreement because of the importance of ukraine as part of europe. we in the european parliament would be prepared to ratify it very quickly and also to support a signature if ukraine creates certain conditions for this. we have shown our willingness to do this by initialling the agreement; now the ball is in the ukrainian government's court. i hope the ukrainian government does not think that delaying the process would lead to a fatigue in the commission, the council and parliament, in order to get through the fatigue what it would not get if it did not meet the rule of law requirement.
question for the commissioner: i have two very specific questions. the first question is whether mr rouček is aware that the czech government has granted political asylum to the former minister of economy of ukraine, mr danylyschyn - which is granted only if political persecution is to be expected - and how he views this fact. the second question is whether it is true that there is a cooperation agreement between the s&d group or the socialist party of europe and the party of the regions.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am glad that the debate on whether football is political or not has finally reached the great public interest in the situation and developments in ukraine, which we have tried to achieve in vain before. i am glad that the case of yulia tymoshenko, but also the cases of former ministers luzenko and filipchuk, are now being properly discussed. i am in favour of the fact that, in showing our solidarity with mrs tymoshenko, we should always complete the list of other politicians and former high officials who are now in prison for political reasons, also because of a campaign of revenge organised by the regime around president yanukovych . it is not just about yulia tymoshenko, it is about the systematic persecution of relevant leaders of the opposition parties in ukraine. i think we've come a long way in terms of attention. we cannot stop at this point. that is why i would like to plead once again that we should not make it so easy for ourselves to say that we are boycotting the european championship in ukraine. i believe that the ukrainian government must be boycotted, along with those, including the president, who stand for this injustice. but the citizens of ukraine must not be boycotted. the old idea of hosting the european championship within the eu and in a neighbouring country was exactly the right one, and it has to be applied to this day. this european championship must lead to an intensification of encounters, exchanges and debates on democracy. all those who are officially participating should make clear their criticism of the treatment of mrs tymoshenko and other politicians who are in prison. it would be best if this injustice were ended before the games begin. i don't know if such insight is possible in ukraine. we must not let our criticism down at this point. the association agreement, which has not yet received as much attention as football in the conflict, should not be signed, in my view, if the development of the judiciary in ukraine remains as it is. the next elections must indeed prove that there is a development towards democracy and the rule of law in ukraine, and indeed the participation of the leading opposition politicians so far as candidates of the opposition must be placed at the centre of our demands. it's not enough to let them go, they need to be rehabilitated.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr siwiec has just said that this is not the first debate we have had on ukraine. as is so often the case, the debate is largely sterile and predictable. what's the reason? the batkivshchyna is an observer party of the epp. the party of regions - we just heard - has an agreement with the socialists. in other words, the epp is making a big fuss here, blowing their cheeks open, doing a transparent campaign for a nice photo opportunity, while the socialists are making speeches about the situation in ukraine, which they should be ashamed of. a diapery way of talking and a whitewashing of the situation. this kind of debate does not take into account the strategic dimension and the humanitarian dimension of this problem. ukraine is a large country with 50 million people, situated between russia, the european union and the black sea. the country has stagnated economically, democratically and socially for 20 years. this was of course also the case under the yushchenko/timoshenko government. i believe that the political and humanitarian dimensions must be at the forefront of our attention today. we must see that the elections in october are a chance for democracy. but mr. fool, the election is in progress. i would like to know very precisely from the commission and the european external action service how they intend to implement what you have just said, namely the close monitoring of the preparations and the elections themselves. i hope that our two guests, hryhory nemyria and yevgenia timoshenko, will take more from this debate today than the usual left-right quarrel. mrs timoshenko, i wish in particular that your mother gets all the medical treatment she needs.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. we are also debating the case of mrs tymoshenko, a political and humanitarian case with grave concerns, and colleagues whom i personally respect, such as mr rouček and mr vigenin, are speaking about the reforms and reforms that are being carried out, but they do not do justice to the seriousness of the case. the opposite would be true if the governmental situation in ukraine were different. that's what i'm talking about. we should be open and clear: no matter who is in power in ukraine, the country is too important to be debated here from a partisan point of view.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu has put on the table, by initialling the association agreement with ukraine, what we are prepared to do in our relations with that country. however, the discrepancy between the alleged common values and the reality in the country is growing. the regime believes that only by continuing to detain opposition leader tymoshenko and other members of her government will it be able to win the parliamentary elections in october. the yanukovych family itself and close friends are increasingly becoming the center of power concentration and self-enrichment. key positions were filled in the ministry of the interior, the tax administration and the central bank, among others. and then son alexander goes on a shopping spree and acquires small and medium-sized businesses all over the country, with the support of the tax authorities among others. he suddenly appears on the list of the richest ukrainians, and within a year, he has apparently multiplied his wealth. the public reacts with resignation and apathy to such acts of shameless self-enrichment and the imprisonment of the opposition. the commission is also aware that the orange camp has been fighting for its own interests during its term of office rather than implementing the necessary reforms. so what do we do now? i call on the socialist group to terminate this agreement of 14 october 2010 early and not to allow it to run until the parliamentary elections. dialogue is of course still important, but such people should not be artificially promoted by such an agreement. the eu should launch a comprehensive communication strategy directly with the public and civil society to make clear what we are about. we should also tell yanukovych what we expect from him and when. commissioner, you should free yourself from the illusion that the good intentions we have with the agreement for the country and its people are the driving force for action by the ruling family. if you look at the reality, son yanukovych and family and friends, they want to enrich themselves personally, and the only question is whether the other oligarchs see it as a threat to their own interests. we should therefore add to the carrot for the country the stick for the family and the oligarchs for their stashed wealth in the eu. we should find out and freeze those funds. i read that cyprus would be a good place to start identifying these accounts. i hope we have the political will to do so.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ukrainian prime minister azarov has offered to allow international trial observers to attend the next tymoshenko trial. this is another farce in a pattern of managed democracy. i think we don't need these trial observers if we just read the four reports by the experienced danish prosecutor lyngbo, who has followed and evaluated all these trials so far and concludes that it is clearly political criminal justice. there's no evidence of usurpation, of abuse of power, of corruption. if you wanted to tackle corruption in ukraine, you would have to look at the bidding conditions for these european championship stadiums, which have become a third more expensive than they should have been. the money went into private pockets, that's the point. a note to mr lambsdorff: you have rebuked the debate here and expressed the naive hope that there should be free and fair elections. i think that if the leaders of the opposition, those who have worked for the european championship, are behind bars and the torturers are in the stands, wanting to bask in the glamour of this event, then we will not have free and fair elections.
question for the commissioner: mr schulz, i hope you have noticed that i have not expressed any naive hope but have asked the commission to explain exactly how it intends to accompany this electoral process. i myself am extremely sceptical that it will be possible to hold elections in six months' time that meet international standards.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. it does not matter what your demands and expectations are towards the commission, but i expect you to be able to say yourself in what way you want to show this regime the red card. that's why we are not just here to whistle around as referees and fight with yellow cards to stay with the image of the european championship , but that we finally show this regime the red card!
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
the vote is closed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the present own-initiative report on the internal security strategy of the european union is a very important report, because the european single market - we are sorry to say - is of course also creating new opportunities for crime. and unfortunately, crime also shows a certain willingness to innovate. whether it is serious organised crime, whether it is terrorism or cybercrime, that is the question. we must at least supplement the european single market with a common strategy to combat these aspects. it is therefore important to establish a clear division of responsibilities between the european union and the member states, but also to establish a network. my request is that we should not let up here either, because we need better networking between the member states, particularly in our daily lives, so that the data can be compared and the fight against them can be carried out more quickly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too have agreed to the own-initiative report because it is very important to strengthen the rights of vulnerable consumers. i also found one sentence in the report very informative: 'this report is based on the principle that all consumers can become vulnerable consumers in their lifetime.' so it may be that it is ultimately about us. i would like to add two things to what i said earlier. firstly, a single internal market with uniform standards is a prerequisite for consumer protection. every consumer can then be sure that whatever he is buying is of the same safety and quality in every member state. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − the report on strengthening the rights of vulnerable consumers was fortunately amended to avoid a 'uniform' concept of when consumers are vulnerable, but rather to address this issue on a case-by-case basis. that is good and proper. each consumer has different protection needs according to age, vulnerability and situation. it is good that the report suggests no other.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the informal eu summit on investment, growth and employment.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. what shocked me most at the beginning of this debate was the tone of the speech on greece. i hope that this will play a different role at the informal summit tomorrow than in the speeches i have heard here first. i believe that the desperate situation in greece, which is a political and economic disaster, is primarily the result of the convergence of two major problems: first, a comprehensive state failure in greece that has been tolerated for a long time, and second, an eu-imf austerity programme that we have said here from the beginning is not feasible. the convergence of these two problems against the backdrop of a very deep, not just european, but global financial and economic crisis is what has led the greeks into this downward spiral that they are in today. why we expect you to speak about this at the summit, mr rehn, and also the representative of the council presidency: we know that this downward spiral is not just one in which the greeks find themselves, but in which the citizens of the other countries in crisis are being drawn, the whole of the european union is being drawn into it, unless the european council finally talks about the errors and weaknesses of the previous crisis policy. we have read in the last few days that there is something like a slow-motion bank run in greece. we know that if this continues, the countries of spain and italy will not be spared. i wonder why today, not only behind closed doors, but also from the lips of many heads of state and government, it is said almost openly: 'if the greeks do not want to stay, then they should leave.' i think that's a very reckless attitude. i believe that tomorrow we will have to decide that the greeks need more time to stabilise their budget, their state. and i think, mr rehn, that the commission must be ready by now to say tomorrow how hundreds of millions of euros which are in brussels and cannot be called up by greece can be immediately converted into employment for young people in greece and, for example, into energy measures. it would be a sign of poverty if there were still a lack of direction tomorrow. my group believes that greece must remain in the euro zone, not only because we know that this is better and good for greece, but because we are convinced that this is better for the whole of the european union. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. when we talk about growth, we talk about sustainability, which must be achieved, for example, by means of a strong climate policy, energy and resource efficiency. that resource-efficient technology, that resource-efficient production processes and products are the guarantee not only of jobs today, but of jobs in the future, is something we've talked about a lot. the commission estimates that these sectors could create between six and ten million new jobs in europe by 2020. where are the initiatives in this area? i think that we can do something about this with the various european funds, with the funds which must finally be used consistently in accordance with the political guidelines, and also with the eib's possibilities. but without the same investment in the same direction at the national level and without us triggering private investment on a very large scale, we will not be able to achieve our goals. finally, you can discuss growth tomorrow. but if you do not talk seriously about how you want to deal with the problem of refinancing spain and greece, if you do not talk seriously tomorrow about the debt relief fund and, in the future, about eurobonds, then what has been presented today as a growth pact will simply be blown away. we need a real fiscal union, as has been discussed many times here. i am beginning to get the feeling that we, as the chairman of the political group, are talking to the council and the commission like we are talking to a wall.
mr callanan, your remarks have provoked a number of reactions. there are a number of questions for you.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. when i hear the recipes we just got, i just realize that hypocrisy is being played here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i can only say: beware of the commission, beware of the council, beware of this parliament, beware of the democratic majorities in the european union of such inhumane recipes! for months now, and i will speak about this, the greek governments have been forced to adopt measures which have led to their impoverishment. that is right, and that is what needs to be changed. the economy in greece is collapsing, especially under austerity measures, and spain, italy and other eu member states are also expected to contract despite rigid austerity programmes. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. you yourself have said so on behalf of the presidency. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is not what is really necessary for sustainable and inclusive development and for reducing economic, fiscal and also financial inequalities. the fight against poverty and environmental degradation must be a top priority for all investments. resource-efficient investment and a fundamental overhaul of energy, industrial and agricultural policies and transport systems are needed. i do not see any fundamental differences here either, even with regard to the political platform of syriza, which has been so massively criticised and portrayed as political extremism in the last few days and weeks. the question is: how are we renegotiating? the question is also: are the debts that are being placed on greece really all justified, is there not also a need for a debt audit, an evaluation of the debts and are there not urgently new negotiations in this connection? let me summarize: if we are talking about growth, then tomorrow the council should decide whether it will follow a growth model of merkel or that of hollande, for example, which he promised during the french election campaign. this is something else, because it is quality that counts, not just quantity. it's really about helping people and that economic development has to do a part for the public interest! economics must serve someone and not be an end in itself. it is only in this context that economic growth can be discussed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think we need to stop with some of the fairy tales that are being told here. myth number one: austerity is cold and brutal and drives people into social cold. no, austerity means creating opportunities, so that future generations can have the opportunity to do the jobs they have to do. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. myth number two: eurobonds are the solution to all our problems. eurobonds are a sweet poison, giving money on favourable terms to those who can no longer get it on favourable terms, so that they can continue to take on more debt. that is why we must reject eurobonds in principle. myth number three: a debt-repayment fund would solve all of our problems. just so we know what we're talking about: a debt-repayment fund means that member states generate surpluses per se in order to be able to use them at all. because by the time they're supposed to pay it off, they can't take on any new debt, or the whole thing won't work. so we should have a little discussion about the truths and realities before we demand standard solutions. the only way to give people a lasting perspective, to defend the european social model in competition with other economic areas, is to gain competitiveness. we do not gain competitiveness by calling for more from the state, but by giving companies the opportunity to invest money, for example by selling land, where you know that what i build on the land is mine - to describe a problem from greece - and where i know that the state does not constantly intervene with non-tariff barriers to trade to limit my growth - to describe a french problem. competitiveness is achieved only by responding to the challenges of world markets, and germany is a good example of this.
question for the commissioner: mr lamberts, if you say that we need growth and that we must create ways of giving money back to the states, then the fact is that the states that are supposed to borrow money are afraid that this is a bottomless pit. are you prepared to admit that this will only work if the fiscal pact is reached and if debt brakes are agreed upon in all the countries?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european crisis has brought us, after two and a half years, to a situation which benjamin franklin once described for his country in the words: 'if we don't hang together, by heavens we shall hang separately'. the question raised by rebecca harms and also by mr verhofstadt is: does europe, does the eu have the ironclad political will to stick to the strategy of tackling the big problems together in this situation? i must say that even if i were to remove the anti-european in this house, some of the comments i have heard here make me doubt it. why, for example, does the epp representative list the countries she respects at length, just so that everyone understands that greece is not one of the countries she respects? why does mr ferber repeat the absurdly exaggerated plea for budgetary discipline? budgetary discipline is required. but his own government is not living up to what it preaches to the rest of europe. it is up to this parliament and the commission to decide whether there is enough european community initiative to deal with this crisis. it is not enough, commissioner rehn, to concentrate on emphasizing what is as uncontroversial as possible and to emphasize once again the commitment to growth and jobs that we all now share. there must be two messages tomorrow. first, the message to greece: the path of reform must continue, but what has been done wrong so far must also be rebalanced. the second message is that if we do not get the debt settlement fund, we will not be able to share the growth you all talk about.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a question for the council and the commission. the council presidency is well aware that the public investment ratio in countries such as germany is currently zero. it doesn't look much better anywhere else. this means that public property in europe is declining. where the troika does not force it to be sold below its value, it is forfeited. what is your answer to that? i didn't hear any. it used to be that when mr monti spoke about the internal market, he was on everyone's lips and was quoted. today mr monti is talking about the importance of investment in our economies. none of you will mention his name. neither the council nor the commission has commented on its proposals. i'd like to know why. i think there's a reason we're not getting anywhere. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but unfortunately, they're not explanations for something happening, they're explanations for why nothing is happening. there is a reason for this, and that is because you have people in the commission and in the council who believe that the best way to get over the hill is to slow down on the way up. but that's against physics, just as what you're proposing in economics is against mathematics. i expect you to make changes, because if you do not take a clear stand, you will not help europe to move forward.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. three things are important at the summit tomorrow. the first is to continue the consolidation of public budgets. that is not an end in itself, mr bullmann. if the investment is low or even zero at the moment, as you say, there is a reason for that. we pay interest on debts we've made in the past, instead of building schools. we pay interest instead of building roads. we pay interest instead of investing in innovation and research. so, in order to be able to invest in these things again, we need continued consolidation of public budgets. the second important issue is structural reforms. productivity, efficiency, competitiveness, entrepreneurship, even a fair tax burden on businesses, all of these are part of making countries competitive, making markets competitive. i am concerned that the labour market reform in italy has stalled. article 18 has to go. i don't see how you can resist that. the third point is growth. how are we going to finance this? the financial transaction tax is not included in england. this is an airline reservation. the european investment bank is much better. and then the commission must finally - we will now be talking about this for two years - come forward with proposals on how we can mobilise the available resources in the structural funds for greece and for the other countries. this has to start getting real. we've been talking about it for two years and nothing's happened.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. first of all, i should like to say to mrs ludford that our group will not decide until this evening whether it will support the resolution. i am inclined to say no to the debate today, for the following reason: i am a staunch opponent of homophobia and a staunch defender of human rights. there are no lgbt rights, by the way. i think that's a bunch of bullshit, ideology. there are human rights, and of course we have to fight for human rights, including those of homosexuals, and to ensure that they are not discriminated against. that is why we have the anti-discrimination clauses in our treaty, why we have anti-discrimination legislation, and why we have the charter of fundamental rights. where this is not respected - but such cases in the eu would have to be referred to me first - it is of course necessary to intervene legally, and this can and should be done. but we're not talking about that. we talk all the time, now again, about so-called gay marriage. we can be for it, we can be against it, but that has nothing whatsoever to do with human rights and nothing whatsoever to do with the charter of fundamental rights! the charter of fundamental rights explicitly states that each state is free to define marriage and family. this was explicitly inserted in the charter of fundamental rights to enable states like germany and many others, including hungary, to say: marriage is between a man and a woman. this is a right explicitly guaranteed by our charter of fundamental rights. you can't mix that with homophobia! we can criticise this politically, but we cannot put it in the same category as the terrible actions that mr putin is taking in russia, for example, which i also condemn. i warned during the last plenary session in strasbourg against the ideological abuse of human rights. human rights are too precious to be conflated with socio-political propaganda. that is why i am appalled by many of the noises in this debate today. i am against human rights violations, i am against homophobia, but i am also against ideological propaganda.
i would like to ask mrs göncz if she is aware that the fidesz government in hungary is fighting the extreme right-wing party jobbik, thank god, also with new laws, while the socialist opposition - as i have just read in the newspaper - is even cooperating with jobbik in parliament. is that right? - yes. i'd like to hear your opinion on that.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 10 tonnes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the daily life of shops in europe, the closure of traditional production lines, e.g. in the textile industry, in new industries of the future such as the solar industry, the supply of raw materials to both huge markets, the global trade challenges - yes, the whole complexity of today's economic policy is shown, especially in the face of the financial, economic and structural crisis and the challenges of climate change and today's production and growth logics: the report is too short, we are too short, even though we may not need another big leap. we cannot continue with china and other so-called emerging countries as a mere 'further' trade and economic policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but all this is only possible in the development of a common, mutually agreed strategy for cooperation in a truly globalised world economy. we need smart, forward-looking initiatives to do this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. as mrs de sarnez has pointed out, the world has changed dramatically. i am constantly shocked to find that in a large member state of the european union - germany, for example, with 80 million inhabitants - many citizens are still unaware of the importance of the european union speaking with one voice in the field of foreign policy and foreign trade policy. because of the 1.3 billion chinese, few are genuinely interested in what even 80 million germans have to say on a particular subject. i am therefore very, very grateful that the area of external trade policy is a european competence. i would like to express my support for mrs de sarnez when she raises many critical points. what we are experiencing in terms of market access for our companies in the chinese market is in some cases completely unsustainable and has nothing at all to do with how open our european market is fortunately for chinese companies, but we expect the chinese to really open their markets here as well. it is a question of all products in general, but also of public procurement. i am particularly concerned about the fact that, when it comes to investment, we still have a situation where investment in certain areas is completely regulated by the state, where european companies are hindered and where forced technology transfer has been taking place for years. and in all the talks, mr de gucht, which the european commission and you yourself have had with the chinese in recent years, you have made little progress. i would therefore be very grateful if we could finally make progress in the forthcoming dialogue on an investment protection agreement. we need fair rules, we need equal rights, and i have seen, on several occasions in the last few weeks, how fortunately chinese investors have also been active in europe. they can do that because we have our market open, because we are open to chinese investment as well. i would be very pleased if we could also make progress in the coming weeks on how european companies can enter the chinese market, how they can invest there, how they can buy there without having to give up technology.
a writer. the commission has already done so. i think it is clear that trade is not an end in itself, but a means of improving people's living conditions. if you look at the situation in colombia and peru, there are big challenges to improve living conditions. in this respect, and particularly in the light of the rights conferred by the treaty of lisbon, parliament is of course examining very closely whether the present trade agreement with colombia and peru meets these requirements. there are considerable doubts whether the challenges can be addressed by this trade agreement alone. there are questions about the extent to which civil society is adequately involved in the implementation process of the trade agreement and the independence of its participation possibilities and also the possibilities to initiate appropriate complaint procedures are guaranteed. or the question of limiting the efforts to enforce the sustainability chapter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we therefore believe that it is necessary to conclude additional agreements with the colombian and peruvian governments so that we can also be sure that the trade agreement will bring about a significant improvement in the living conditions of the people. the first is to ensure that the challenges of labour law are also met by people working in the informal sector. for example, in colombia, about 58% of people work in the informal sector, where the conditions of employment are very different from those of other regularly employed workers. the question of representation of the interests of employees must also be addressed again, particularly in the light of ilo conventions 129 and 135. the issue of safety at work and the strengthening of social dialogue, similar to ilo directive 144, must also be improved. we have the example of the united states, but we also have the example of switzerland, which has drawn up action plans in addition to the free trade agreements. we should do that too!
member of the commission. − mr president, the protection of human rights is already central to our relationship with colombia and peru, precisely because we have long used our cooperation programmes to further human rights in the region. human rights is a priority area of focus under the 2007-2013 country strategy paper for colombia and we are undertaking a broad range of measures under the european initiative for democracy and human rights, covering labour rights, women’s rights, the rights of indigenous people and the rights of children and youth more broadly. for example, we have actions promoting the reintegration into society of child soldiers and street children in colombia. we are working to support the right to join and form trade unions, also in colombia; and we have projects to support the implementation of convention 169 of the international labour organisation, on the rights of indigenous and tribal peoples, in both colombia and peru. in total, we have already spent some eur 50 million in this area. but the politically relevant fact behind these figures is that, as in all areas, europe’s assistance is demand driven. this means that we are not simply pursuing values that we cherish: we are pursuing the objectives that our partners identify as priorities. so not only the european union but also colombia – and peru for that matter – have set the improvement of human and labour rights as a priority on our bilateral cooperation agenda. however, we all know that cooperation is not sufficient. it needs to be matched by appropriate international commitments, and so it is. it is an undisputed fact that colombia has acceded to all core ilo labour standards. the issue in the past has been about implementation of the standards on the physical safety of trade unionists, and the legal framework for trade union activity, but today it must also be an undisputed fact that the situation has improved enormously. the incidence of violence against trade unionists has decreased considerably. the government’s protection programme for people under threat, including many trade unionists, has been completely overhauled. there are now higher levels of prosecution and conviction, and police and judicial capacities have been strengthened. the government has also moved to eliminate legal and practical obstacles to freedom of association and collective bargaining, for example by reducing the scope for outsourcing and labour intermediation. the legislation regulating strikes has been reformed, incorporating important international principles into the national legislation, such as making decisions on the legality of strikes the responsibility of the courts. peru, for its part, has implemented the key ilo conventions, and peruvian law now provides a good framework for the right of association. the number of trade unions registered nationwide is increasing, although more effort is needed to increase their representativeness. although all of this progress is impressive, the situation is not yet as it should be. indeed, the vice-presidents of both countries admitted as much when they travelled to brussels to speak to the committee for international trade (inta committee) earlier this year. but i also want to make very clear that we would do no service to human or labour rights in either country by rejecting this agreement, because one of the core objectives of the agreement has been, precisely, to reinforce these positive developments. allow me to illustrate this. firstly, civil society organisations and citizens have an important role in the implementation of the agreement. both countries and the european union will have to set up advisory groups of civil society representatives, including a balanced representation of economic, social and environmental interests. those groups must be regularly consulted by governments about how the agreement is being put into practice, and they will also be able to make recommendations on their own initiative. concretely, there will be regular inter-governmental meetings, and on every occasion we will have to hold an open session where all civil society organisations and citizens can directly raise issues. all decisions and reports that governments make must be public. what this means is that civil society will help us in the commission, and you in parliament, to oversee the implementation of the provisions – on sustainable development in particular, but also the rest of the agreement. secondly, the agreement establishes a transparent, predictable and comprehensive mechanism to ensure implementation of core labour and environmental conventions. it establishes an arbitration system to deal with disagreements on trade and sustainable development. this can be triggered by the european union, colombia or peru – regardless of whether the country targeted agrees. once it has been set in motion, it will follow a fixed set of procedural steps and deadlines. a group of impartial and independent experts will study the matter to see if the country has lived up to its legal commitments under the agreement. they will then issue a full public report of their findings of fact. i consider this system more, rather than less, effective than the general dispute settlement mechanism which applies to other parts of the agreement. true, it does not provide for the usual retaliatory mechanisms, like raising tariffs, but these would be counterproductive. they do not encourage permanent changes in a country’s policies, and too often they end up harming those they are intended to protect. in addition, the arbitration procedure does not have to wear the straitjacket imposed by the regular dispute settlement mechanism. there is no obligation to prove that problematic measures have an effect on trade. that means that we will be in a position to open arbitration procedures in a much wider range of cases. this is far more consistent with the objectives and the rationale behind our trade and sustainable development chapters. as if all this were not enough, the procedure is, in any case, backed up by the human rights clause. the very first article of the text states that respect for democratic principles, the rule of law and fundamental human rights is an essential element of the agreement. if a government violates this essential element, the european union, colombia or peru would be able immediately to suspend the benefits of the agreement to that government’s country. i do not see how this could be expressed more clearly or more strongly. now, i know that some in this house are in favour of establishing some sort of action plan on implementation with colombia, as the usa has done. but the situation is not identical. the us-colombia free trade agreement does not contain a human rights clause, which is why an action plan is necessary in their case. nothing that you could put in any action plan would be as effective as what is already in our agreement with colombia and peru, and this could have a broader impact than you might think. if we were unilaterally to impose additional binding mechanisms ex post, our partners could question the good faith of our negotiating positions. i therefore urge you to look closely at this agreement – to examine it in great detail – because i think that when you do so you will be fully reassured as to the balances it strikes.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is no doubt that the situation in colombia and peru needs to continue to improve in terms of human rights and the rule of law. but instead of focusing exclusively on the remaining weaknesses, we must take account of the reality in these countries by looking at the permanent improvements in recent years. colombia and peru have for years been trying, with varying success, to eliminate abuses and meet human rights requirements, in spite of some considerable resistance within their own countries. i am firmly convinced that we must help the countries of south america in this endeavour and further develop our mutual trade flows. trade in goods and services is not only an economic success, but also, and above all, an exchange of people between europe and south america. this exchange is essential to enable an even deeper understanding of the meaning and absolute value of the rule of law and human rights. i am therefore very pleased, mr commissioner, that the commission can give a satisfactory answer to the questions it has been asked and that it shares my view that the free trade agreements with colombia and peru, which are currently under approval, are a significant step in the right direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am very grateful that we have the opportunity today to talk about this proposed free trade agreement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we are not starting from scratch, but the situation was really difficult in this country a few years ago. terrorism has been a big issue, and the last few governments have been extremely committed to really improving the situation for the people. anyone who says that the situation in colombia has not improved dramatically in recent years is simply not telling the truth. of course, the situation must continue to develop, there must be further improvements. we all know, if we look at the situation in europe: we're not going to get it right overnight either. improvements take time. the improvements in the past have been extremely great, when i think about the issue of democracy in the country, when i think about the security situation and the dramatic improvements in this area, when i think about counterterrorism and when i think about my predecessor who raised the issue of trade unionists. i believe that this protection programme of the colombian government, especially for trade unionists, is unprecedented. of course, unfortunately, it still hasn't stopped any more murders. we are also faced with a number of murders in europe. but the improvements cannot be denied. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. what would be the answer? shall we close the door? are we to say that, despite all the tremendous improvements in recent years, all this is not enough? shall we say all those negotiations were for nothing? are we to say that we do not recognize all the improvements? we are not going to be able to do that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that's part of the business. this includes opening up our market in europe to products from colombia and peru, giving these countries the opportunity to create wealth, to create the basis for further improving the living conditions of the people. i think that the action plan, which is also mentioned in the draft resolution, is a good step forward. but i would ask all my colleagues not to look at the shortcomings, which are certainly still there today. we have to help the colombians. but above all, we should also take into account that in recent years a lot has happened for the good of the people in those countries.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. all services and products are taxed, and one wonders why financial transactions are not. i can therefore understand the basic idea of taxing these transactions. the financial sector has done considerable damage in recent years and is not entirely innocent of the current difficult situation, particularly in europe. the recent speculative losses of jpmorgan chase, which have become public, are yet another example of the financial industry's failure to learn from its mistakes. the greed of individual players still seems to be unsatisfied. the commission has put forward a very creative proposal and the principle of residence which it proposed has been extended in the committee on economic and monetary affairs to include the issuer and owner principle. this should ensure that the risk of financial transactions being moved from the eu to other regions of the world can be relatively contained. however, there are still some open questions. i am of the opinion, unlike the commissioner, that we should indeed exclude pension funds, because i do not see that savers who save money for their old age should be punished. in addition, there are of course still some questions to be clarified in the practical implementation of tax collection and, last but not least, how the revenue is actually used: what goes to the eu and what goes to the individual member states? there are two things we should not lose sight of in our approach to solving this problem. firstly, we must not weaken europe. secondly, we must ensure that we do not fragment europe any further. we must achieve the opposite, not fragmentation, but as much progress as possible in harmonizing our taxes. the global introduction of the tax is not feasible at present, we know that. nor is it an eu-wide one. the uk veto does not seem to be breakable. the rapporteur's proposal to proceed now with the enhanced cooperation instrument does not seem to me to be sufficient. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. that's what we don't want. so i think the minimum would have to be all 17 eurozone members plus a few extra. we must therefore look for alternatives which are suitable for all countries. i think that the uk stamp duty could be used as a starting point, and of course extended to include not only stocks but also bonds and also derivatives and professional traders. if we are going to be modest with the enhanced cooperation mechanism and the present proposal, then i think we are going in the wrong direction. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i have already said that the question of how the funds are to be used is not yet settled. the debate is still on how much goes to brussels and how much remains with the member states. even among the member states, it is not yet clear which member state will receive the funds. if we have clarified this question in principle and know how much goes to brussels in the eu budget, then we can also approach the question you have raised. that would be pure speculation at the moment.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: first of all, we have been discussing this for a long time in this mandate. the interesting development is that it is precisely through the efforts of parliament that the position in the council has been able to be significantly changed and the position of the commission has been changed. i am glad to see that you, mr šemeta, have really gone from saul to paul on this issue. that is gratifying, and i fully support what you have said here. the background to this is that the tax must be applied as generally and as broadly as possible on a broad tax base and as evenly as possible. that is the question that is being fought. the question is therefore whether we can, on the basis of the proposed principle of residency, include as many taxpayers as possible in order to avoid competitive disadvantages. the commission has also proposed that the principle of emission and ownership be added to the commission proposal. i'd appreciate it if you'd look into it. in my opinion, and in the opinion of many experts, this makes the tax stronger, this makes it more evenly collected. the debate on the scope of the directive will of course begin immediately. first of all , the foreign exchange transactions: we propose that the foreign exchange transactions that started all these debates about the tobin tax be included. we, like a number of experts, do not find the legal concerns raised there convincing. we think it is right to include these foreign exchange transactions. the second point concerns the question of high-frequency trading. here we propose that non-performing transactions should also be included in the valuation basis if in practice the number of unrealised, unperformed orders exceeds the number of executed orders by a factor of 15. the commission therefore considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market. the epp proposes that the common investment vehicle (cio) should be excluded from this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. this would mean that banks could simply set up a ucits and then carry out their non-taxable business through it. that would be a real disservice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the social security system. this is also a mistake in our view, because studies show very clearly: the less frequently the pension fund envelopes are changed - the oecd has just put this forward - the greater the return on investment. it is not a punishment to apply this tax uniformly. i would like to say one last thing to the council: the danish presidency of the council - a country with a high tax burden, including on labour - should have a particular interest in making progress in the area of taxation of capital gains. you've done little to help the cause. i would ask you to press the button instead of considering alternatives here and to follow parliament's proposals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the financial transaction tax is certainly not the same as the tobin tax, which has been discussed and debated for many years, but i think it incorporates essential elements of the tobin tax. it at least accepts the idea of involving the financial markets in the taxation and, above all, in the costs of the crisis. i think that's a very important signal to the financial markets. but it is also a very important signal to the citizens, to our electors. there has been a whole series of actions, petitions, written undertakings to politicians in a whole series of member states to finally introduce a financial transaction tax at european level. i think that parliament has achieved a great success with the majority for this report, for this tax that is emerging here. it is certainly not enough to stabilise and restrict financial markets as might be necessary, but i think it is a really important step that has been taken here. i would like to make a specific appeal to the council to take the voices of the citizens, the voters, seriously and to work towards a real introduction, not to block the introduction of this tax in the council on the basis of the british position or other positions. i think it is clear that the citizens of the european union want this tax, and i think it is a great responsibility. it is now up to the council to take action here, and i would like to use my speaking time to appeal to the council to do everything possible to ensure that this tax is actually implemented and becomes a reality. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question for the commissioner: mr klute, if you think the compromise is so good, why did your group propose a fivefold increase in tax rates?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. well, we're just taking in what the city of london is also asking for in derivatives tax, and i think that doesn't take away from the fact that this project is good if it's not enough in our view in terms of taxation. i think that is not a contradiction and we could put a stop to it if that is what is being done in the city of london.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if mr madlener is talking about a sham parliament, he is free to resign today, and he will not have to consult with us any further. (applause from the centre) the commission's proposal is a good one. he's better than most, in energy management, for example. he's good at the residency principle, the tax rates, the reasoning. i have to commend the commissioner. what is not right is the reasoning. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax is not imposed on the population. it's an illusion, you know. if we tax the financial market, we know that ultimately it is the consumers, the customers, the citizens who bear the burden, not an anonymous financial market. i believe that the issue is quite different, namely that the financial market must be slowed down. the fact that the financial market as a whole has to shrink, that it has to regain its service function, to achieve this, such an instrument is quite suitable. but the question of linking all this to own resources and to revenue and to questions of justice is not enough for enforcement. i do think it's important to get london's largest square involved in some way. that is why a clear vote by parliament is important, because over two thirds of all financial market transactions in the eu-25 pass through london. if we only make a partial solution, we will not progress, we will not reach the goal. so my request is that by voting clearly for this financial market transaction tax, we create the conditions for the whole eu to participate. the alternatives now being discussed in the council cannot of course be simply set aside, namely an extended tax on stock exchange turnover, including derivatives. we have decided to regulate derivatives, we have created the conditions for this. it is all part of the same thing and i hope that we will support the commission in this case by a clear vote. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why it makes sense to tax financial transactions as well. and it makes sense to do that across borders. in europe - or at least in the eurozone - we would not be in a state of confusion, but would be contributing to a stable financial centre that generates what financial centres are designed to do, which is to give businesses access to capital, to give savers the opportunity to save or to save for retirement, and to enable financial markets to return to the role for which they were created, which is to provide added value for the real economy. all of the things that got us into the financial crisis were products that didn't create value for the real economy. it is therefore sensible to contribute, through a tax, to the fact that this is heavily penalized, that this is sanctioned, that this is controlled in the sense that capital again fulfils its function. that is why i am calling for a large majority to approve this proposal today.
in writing. the opinion before us sends a clear signal and supports the social democrats' long-held conviction that the crisis can only be overcome if the financial sector is restrained. to avoid a repeat of the excesses of the banks in 2008, we must strictly pursue two objectives. firstly, ladies and gentlemen, banks cannot and must not be allowed to act in such a shortsighted and reckless manner in future. second, more investment in the real economy is needed to curb the power of finance in today's economic structure. both can be achieved by the proposed tax. the very low tax rates of 0.01 and 0.1% alone would provide up to 100 billion extra for member states. the european union has a budget of 100 billion, which will help to relieve the burden on households and invest in sustainable growth. i trust that you will all give this proposal the necessary weight by your votes and i call on all the member states not to block the commission proposal in the council. but if a common eu-wide solution fails because of a handful of 'no' votes, the remaining member states must set a good example in the context of enhanced cooperation!
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, mr vice-president of the commission, the right of inquiry is an important feature of the european parliament’s supervisory powers, allowing it to set up committees of inquiry to investigate alleged maladministration in the implementation of union law. whilst the lisbon treaty has not materially changed the specific subject matter covered by parliament’s right of inquiry, it has introduced changes in the procedure for establishing the detailed provisions governing the exercise of that right. such provisions shall now be determined by parliament, acting on its own initiative after obtaining the consent of the council and the commission. the presidency fully respects parliament’s right of initiative on this matter and has therefore closely followed the work of mr martin’s report. likewise the presidency has worked hard within the council to be ready to begin formal trialogue negotiations with parliament. during the exchange of views i had on this topic with the constitutional affairs committee (afco) in january, i indicated that, coming from a country with a tradition of transparency and strong parliamentary scrutiny, i will approach this matter with an open mind and a willingness to find a reasonable compromise. the contacts that have taken place between the rapporteur and the presidency following the vote in afco on the martin report have provided an excellent opportunity to discuss the matter further and to improve our respective understanding of each other’s viewpoint. i would like to thank mr martin for his willingness to listen to the council’s concerns and for the constructive dialogue which he entered into with the presidency. there is no reason to hide the fact that this matter is sensitive for all the institutions concerned. however, i am confident that the contacts which the presidency had with mr martin will provide a good basis for further inter-institutional contacts. without entering into much detail on the draft report, i would like to highlight two points which are of particular importance to the council. firstly, the council believes that the fundamentally political nature of parliament’s right of inquiry should be reflected in the proposed new rules. this is crucial in order to avoid any interference with court proceedings. it also means that committees of inquiry cannot be vested with prerogatives of a quasi-judicial nature. secondly, the principle of attribution of competences, which is also enshrined in the treaties, has to be fully respected. this implies that, in the framework of their investigations, the committees of inquiry should avoid any overlap with the competences of other institutions or of member states. mr president, honourable members, vice-president of the commission, i look forward to further contact with mr martin and with parliament’s negotiating team on this issue, and let me assure you that the presidency will do its utmost to reach a compromise which will be acceptable to all three institutions and will allow parliament to exercise its right of inquiry in the most efficient possible way.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the lisbon treaty included many innovations for the european parliament, one of which is parliament’s new right of initiative to set the ground rules for committees of inquiry. this clearly puts democracy in the driving seat and we should all applaud that. it is now our joint responsibility to implement this new provision as soon as possible, in constructive cooperation between the three institutions, with common sense and in full respect of the letter and the spirit of article 226 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the commission has always defended the need for strong parliamentary oversight. therefore, nearly a year ago, we engaged in the first discussions on mr martin’s draft report. i very much appreciated his cooperative spirit and good collaboration with the presidency and minister wammen. at that time we drew your rapporteur’s attention to some of the problematic elements of the initial draft, but only a few of our concerns have been reflected in the outcome of the final vote in the committee on constitutional affairs. likewise, the hungarian presidency and now the danish presidency have also expressed certain concerns and i very much welcome your rapporteur’s openness to taking some of these on board. we welcome parliament’s readiness to seek a constructive solution, which is clearly reflected by the set of compromise amendments mr martin tabled with a view to today’s vote, which try to accommodate some of the main concerns previously expressed by the council and the commission. but it is probably no secret that there are still some key elements to be discussed before the necessary consent of the commission, foreseen by article 226, can be given. let me mention some of the important elements for the commission. we believe that the scope of the future regulation should remain the same as in the current decision. indeed, as article 226 states, the european parliament may only set up committees of inquiry in the course of its duties and, pursuant to article 13 of the treaty on european union, it shall act within the limits conferred on it in the treaties. the commission explicitly welcomes your compromise amendments in this regard. we should also not forget that changes in article 226 concern only the procedure and the type of act, not the mandate of a committee of inquiry, and that committees of inquiry are a fundamentally political rather than legal tool, at parliament’s disposal for the exercise of political control. this is why i believe further discussions will be necessary also on the investigative tools proposed in the parliament draft, which still appear rather excessive. last but not least, let me also mention article 17 of the draft regulation, which concerns the hearing of officials and other servants of the eu and of member states. your compromise amendments address some of our key concerns as regards the issue of ‘freedom to testify’ and we can accept the inclusion of a ‘comply or explain’ procedure, but a certain perplexity still remains on our side as regards the different treatment of national and eu officials that you propose, which in our view, cannot be objectively justified. against this background, the commission welcomes your intention to vote today only on the report, including some additional amendments, but not on the legislative resolution. this gives the three institutions the chance to engage in constructive trilateral discussions after the vote, so as to agree on a text to which the council and commission could easily give their consent according to article 226, after parliament has voted on the legislative resolution. i very much look forward to working with you and with the council in order to achieve an early and successful conclusion on this important file.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. a body which has legislative competence must also have implementing competence. it is not just the acquis communautaire that is at issue, but also the application of community law, and this is where we sometimes have considerable shortcomings within the union. the work of the committee of inquiry into the equitable life assurance society crisis has revealed some astonishing material, but it has also shown that there is room for improvement in our instrument. that is why this dossier is an important step forward. i should like to mention very briefly the five points which are important to my group. firstly, we understand that the commission and the council have reservations when there is a reason in the public interest for officials and ministers not to testify. but the decision to do so cannot be a good-for-nothing one; it must be justified and explained. secondly, it cannot be attributed to the disposition of the person being questioned, whether he is speaking in private or in public. thirdly, anyone who testifies must of course tell the truth. fourthly, we expect the member states to punish those who do not tell the truth at least as severely as those who do not tell the truth before the appropriate national bodies. fifthly, as regards amendment no 31 by my group, it is important that the work of a committee of inquiry should also be concluded by a minority vote. i very much regret that this has been declared inadmissible by the president or his administration, and i do not think that this decision is correct. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. i would be glad if at the end of the day this joy of willingness to compromise were not just one-sided.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. democracy needs procedures, and procedures work only as well as the rules that underlie them. in the case of the right of inquiry, these rules are completely inadequate, as has been shown by past experience, for example with the investigation grant for the crisis of the equitable life assurance society. that is why we need a functioning committee of inquiry. we must bring light to the darkness where there is wrongdoing, misconduct, scandal. we must replace colporteurism or suspicion with clarity and truth, just as we must replace concealment and obscuration. that is our task, in the interests and on behalf of the citizens. we need to be able to see all the relevant documents. we must be able to hear all relevant witnesses and parties, including on the spot, and the consequences of failure to appear, refusal to testify or false testimony must be serious and effective. i would like to raise one more point which unfortunately is not on the agenda today: experience shows that the will to find out is not always equally strong on all sides in a committee of inquiry. i regret this, because regardless of national interests or considerations or party political interests or considerations, everyone should have the same desire to know. but experience shows that on occasion the minority is much more willing and clearer to bring facts to light than the majority. that is why we need the possibility of minority reports in committees of inquiry.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in a time of growing loss of confidence in the european union and in the legal practice of its policies in many areas, the own-initiative report by mr martin is to be welcomed and i expressly express my group's support for this own-initiative report. the aim is to put into practice the right explicitly enshrined in article 14 of the lisbon treaty and the european parliament's role of political control. i do not agree with my predecessor in this respect that we should not be extending the right of inquiry, including that of the european parliament. how can and should article 226 be applied in practice when it becomes necessary to set up temporary committees of inquiry to detect and stop alleged contraventions or maladministration in the implementation of union law? we need a solid, functioning, transparent and transparent investigation procedure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. it gives parliaments the opportunity to examine independently and autonomously the matters which they consider to be in need of information in fulfilling their constitutional mandate as representatives of the citizens. i believe that this is particularly necessary in the present situation of the european union. i would like to conclude by saying that i agree with the colleagues who say that minority votes are urgently needed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too voted for this report because it is a step in the right direction. still, we should be open and honest with one another. the main problem in the fisheries sector is not only to establish quotas but also to control them effectively and sustainably. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i therefore ask the house, parliament and the committee responsible to reconsider the question of whether we should not establish protected areas. on land, we've had the same experience, where we've put animals or species that are particularly vulnerable under total protection, in reserves maybe. we must follow a similar course on water or in the ocean.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for this proposal, the transaction tax. i would like to start by making a correction: this is about trading in derivatives and stocks. so it is not about the normal bank charges that the citizen has to pay. the tax rate is 0.01% for derivatives and 0.1% for equities. the real economy would only dream of such tax rates. we could exchange and say, the taxes of the real economy we send to the stock exchange, and we get in the real economy the taxes on derivatives and stocks. secondly, i would like to emphasize once again that there is a political dimension to this. the global financial crisis was not caused by the real economy but is a consequence of stock market speculation, and it is quite an aspect and an act of justice that the stock market is also ultimately involved in removing this crisis. the tax is also, for me, an act of great global justice.
in writing. - we have now heard a great many strong arguments in favour of introducing a financial transaction tax, and hardly any substantive arguments against it. the overwhelming majority of our people are also in favour. parliament voted in favour. but nothing will happen! i can 't understand it , and i can 't accept it . we're bailing out the banks with hundreds of billions of dollars and we're taking the money of the citizens. but we cannot get the banks and speculators to contribute even a small part of these costs through a financial transaction tax. if we can't do that, something is wrong with our democracy. the impression is that big banks and financial market players have more influence on politics and our legislation than citizens. if that impression is created, we need to fundamentally rethink our democracy and change our democratic institutions and procedures. democracy is government by the people, for the people and by the people. the task of democratic politics would therefore be to set up the legal framework for banking and finance in a timely and sovereign manner so that it once again serves the people and the real economy, and does not destroy society, markets, the real economy and social cohesion in europe at a dramatic pace and with ever more visible, fatal consequences.
in writing. − this ftt plan picks up on a number of elements of the tobin tax which has been under discussion for many years now. it is an important signal to send to citizens, markets and banks following a series of campaigns and petitions aimed at introducing an ftt at eu level. obviously it could have gone further. it is not sufficient to stabilise financial markets and more needs to be done, but i urge the council to follow the citizens and do everything possible to prevent this proposal from being blocked by member states.
in writing. − the cost of the multi-billion euro financial crisis must be effectively shared by the actors, rather than continuing to be borne by taxpayers. the citizens expect clear regulations to curb speculation and profit-making. the financial transaction tax of 0.1% on stocks and bonds and 0.01% on derivatives is expected to generate additional tax revenue of almost eur 60 billion. in the special committee on the solution of the financial, economic and social crisis and now in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, we epp members were vehemently in favour of the fts with a large majority. it is not, of course, a question of pension funds or occupational pensions. it should be applied to non-euro countries as well, preferably globally! i am opposed to the concern that money transactions will be increasingly shifted to asia or tax havens, as corporate financing also runs on credit and other products; over 90% are neither listed nor securitised. the idea of finance minister wolfgang schäuble to introduce a "stamp tax plus" as a compromise to restrict high-frequency trading and to obtain levies on derivatives is worth considering. despite some reservations, i believe that the introduction of the fts is indispensable as an important basis for investment that promotes growth and as a clear signal for the necessary fight against gambling.
in writing. - the podimata report offers an opportunity - among others - to finally achieve the goal of curbing the so-called high-frequency trading on the stock exchanges. the council of ministers must now take a constructive view of the european parliament's report and push ahead with the introduction of the financial transaction tax. however, national stock exchange regulators must also ensure that all possible measures are taken today to curb high-frequency trading.
in writing. - i voted against the report because two amendments tabled by the liberal alde group did not win a majority in the plenary. on the one hand, the liberals wanted to ensure that alternative approaches to taxing financial transactions were also considered, and on the other hand we reject the idea of launching such an important project on the basis of enhanced cooperation alone, in the extreme case with only nine member states.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not and another war for oil. this is how you can overwrite a post about the current conflicts in sudan. and once again, the civilian population of both countries is suffering beyond description. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. but that does not prevent us from discussing the causes, nor from critically questioning whether the eu's clear commitment to the secession of south sudan was justified in the circumstances. there will be no quick fix, that's for sure. but it is also clear that the problems cannot be solved by force of arms. it is absolutely essential to respect the arms embargo in place at the moment in order to prevent further escalation. i would recall that the eu csdp arms embargo on sudan, which has been in place since 2004, and on south sudan since 2011, was unilaterally eased in november 2011 with support for security sector reform in south sudan. as difficult as it may be, diplomatic negotiations must be forced. if the international community wants to help mediate in the conflict, it will do so in the role of a neutral mediator and not in the interest of the parties. the eu's role was not neutral. i am very concerned that more of these scenarios will have a future, and that there will be more splitting of resource-rich regions in africa, that there will be a spiral of state breakdown. the foreign policy instrument of state formation must not be an instrument of such a development. the access to raw material reserves as a guideline for foreign policy does not bring peace, but death and misery.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unfortunately, it was to be expected that with the independence of south sudan, the existing conflicts would not be settled overnight, not only with regard to the final border. a man like omar al-bashir, who has been ruling for many years in all parts of his country in the familiar way, continues to do so in the part of the country he has left, in terms of human rights, and i doubt that he has any sincere interest in the stabilization of the south. the eu certainly must and can help with the obviously still-existing gross deficiencies in governance in the south. i hope that we can prevent the south from becoming a new eritrea, as a colleague has feared. the international community must now act together. the un security council resolution is the legal and political framework. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the un security council resolution on the situation in khartoum. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the eu must work in close coordination with the african union to restart the peace talks. i believe fundamentally that wherever possible we must promote african solutions to african conflicts. it is obvious that north and south are dependent on each other when it comes to oil. one can't live without the other. the buyers of oil should know that they will only get their hands on the oil if they submit proposals to khartoum and juba that both agree with. in this respect, a concerted approach by, for example, china and the eu would be desirable. i think that the eu would not fail in this.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i thank the honourable members for their insightful remarks and for the concern which they have expressed about the situation in guinea-bissau. before answering on behalf of the high representative, i just want to comment on her whereabouts today. even the high representative can be in only one place at a time, and today she is in baghdad, leading the negotiations with iran on the issue of its nuclear programme. as for mr nick westcott, the head of the european external action service’s african department, he cannot be present here today because he is on a mission to niger, burkina faso and mauritania. on guinea-bissau, your comments confirm that, in line with the principle of respect for democracy and the rule of law, which inspires the external action of the eu, the immediate priorities in guinea-bissau should consist of the restoration of constitutional order, the release of all illegally detained persons and the resumption of the democratic electoral process. exactly how this is to be done remains unclear, and there are still grounds to fear that a compromise may not resolve the underlying issues. the economic community of west african states (ecowas), as a key regional leader, should continue its mediation efforts aimed at bringing a speedy end to the unsustainable situation in the country. this has to be done in greater synergy with the un, the african union, the community of portuguese language countries and other international partners in order to ensure that the stabilisation strategy effectively addresses critical issues, including the implementation of security sector reform, the fight against impunity, the fight against drug trafficking and the promotion of social and economic development. i look forward to the resolution that the house will adopt on this matter.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the report by mr gerben-jan gerbrandy, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the subject of 'a resource-efficient europe' (2011/2068 (ini)) (a7-0161/2012).
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i congratulate you on this courageous report. it is not so easy to produce a resource report covering all the areas of our economic and political life. resource efficiency is not a green fantasy, but a basic requirement for our economic and political life in the future. it is therefore right that we also look at this from the perspective of the competitiveness of our society and our industry. so i think it's necessary that we have this broad debate without actually asking for legislation. i am even sure that we can regulate a whole lot by making agreements, by making the industry aware of how much more efficient we have to become. ludwig erhard tried this with restraint in germany, my father tried it with me, i tried it with my children it's not possible! we must find another way, the way of efficiency. i once had a car that used 12 liters of fuel, then i had a car that used 7 liters, and it doesn't take long, then we have a car that uses 3 liters. that's the approach. we need to get in that direction. what was wrong with our fathers telling us that efficiency policy is what you do with a decent forest? you only get as much wood from this forest as you grow each year. if we're halfway down that road, we're already one lap ahead. i would like to thank mr gerbrandy, with whom i have had a very pleasant and excellent working relationship. we have laid a good foundation. there are a few exaggerations from my political friends on the other side. are you really going to forbid us to eat meat? do you really expect us to write in every bill how much the eco-audit is? what's the man who breaks such a bill to do? so let's take a deep breath and highlight a few things. the indicators approach is very correct. but this too is a process that does not take place overnight. mr gerbrandy, we shall try to put aside the nonsense and bring forward the good.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank mr gerbrandy for the good work he has done here. i can support a lot of what is in the report. i think it is good that we are giving ourselves the courage to say: we must overcome the barriers in the internal market when it comes to removing the barriers to the management of resources and the exchange of resources. but i think a lot of things that have been said here are not quite right. i have to go into that very briefly. jan, copper prices aren't going up because copper is becoming scarce. the cost of raw materials at akzonobel and unilever is not rising because the raw materials are becoming scarce, but because we are printing so much money and so much money is looking for safe investment opportunities that it is increasingly not finding in government bonds, so much is being directed into the raw materials markets. that's one reason why commodity prices are going up. not so much because we're about to run out of some raw materials, they're not available. i think we need to look at the causes of this as well. this is usually not related to the scarcity of raw materials. i am troubled by two things in the report which i think are the wrong signal: the first is the call for the extension of the ecodesign directive. we should not abandon the principle that we will find better solutions through competition and not through political dictation - the word 'eco-dictate' is already well-liked in this context. the second point is that in a europe which is no longer growing and facing crisis developments, we should demand new taxes on the management of resources. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. this is a matter of political judgment. i just want to remind you that the central bank - this has nothing to do with the debate here now, but it is a question, so i have to answer it - printed a trillion euros in december and february to eliminate liquidity bottlenecks in southern european countries. the fact that we are on the way out of monetary stability is, in my view, obvious. i believe that this policy also threatens to aggravate the situation on the commodity markets, because there are many financial flows into precious metals and commodities, because many investors see safe havens there or want to take speculative business there.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank mr gerbrandy very much for this report. the message that should come out of this debate and our decision to the public, to the industry and to the member states is that there is strong cooperation between the commission, especially mr potočnik, and this parliament on resource efficiency. i think we all know the crucial facts. we know that europe is more dependent on resource imports - relatively speaking - than other regions. we know that if we push resource efficiency, it would be a huge help to economic dynamism. we know - the commission has told us time and again - that we can create up to three million jobs if we take resource efficiency seriously. the crucial point is, will this knowledge lead to action? governance is important, and the commission and parliament, but also the member states and the economy and other actors in particular, must work together in a sensible way. and that's where it gets tricky, let's be honest. i don't know if my list is too incomplete, but i have found four member states so far with resource efficiency plans that are somewhat serious: the netherlands as early as 2010, austria in january, germany and now, most recently, the uk in march. only one member state, germany, has ever discussed it at cabinet level. that's not very strong. the member states have not done themselves any honour in the council of environment ministers by partially blocking the commission's proposals. let us be ambitious and let us - i repeat the message - say clearly: dare to lead, or at least take an example, or at least get out of the way!
question for the commissioner: mr president, madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i didn't understand that. my second question to you is: if it's true that labor productivity has increased much faster than resource productivity, why are we holding back our economy instead of pushing resource productivity forward?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the spirit, of course, is willing, but the flesh is weak. everyone wants to go in the right direction, but how do we go there? voluntary measures - we have seen this time and again, in the automotive industry, in other sectors - have failed miserably. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the conservation of natural resources is a very important one. i can only say that when i look at the empty seat in the council's direction, i am very surprised that the council is not here today, but it may take a little longer because they are missing something today, namely the presentation and debate of a very, very good report by mr gerbrandy. this is a subject which will concern us for a long time to come and which will determine whether we will live in prosperity in europe in the future and what our environment in europe will look like. here we must now go to the instruments. internalisation of external costs we will not avoid the introduction of this principle: whoever pollutes water, whoever pollutes air, must pay for it. today we pay for it with health insurance or other things, because we pay for it with our taxes, mrs gardini. this must be internalized, and this must also be courageous, because only in this way will we also face the future challenges that we face. the growing world population - not in europe, we will be smaller in the future - is a huge challenge, and that is why this report, which mr gerbrandy has prepared here, is a good starting point for thinking about new policy strategies, including for the commission. we have to think in life cycles -- not just regulate what comes out the back of the exhaust, but also look at the factory where the car is made. is that sustainable, is that resource-efficient? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. (applause from the centre)
i thank you very much, mrs korhola. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. if you want all europeans to understand your speeches, don't read them too fast! and then i would also like to point out that we have the possibility to give texts to the interpreters in advance, if you are already reading them. then they will also have a little easier time with the translation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a disgrace here in parliament that texts are read for one or two minutes and you cannot speak freely for one or two thoughts. this has been bothering me since i was in the european parliament. but i want to spend my time on the subject. commissioner potočnik, you have rightly described the energy roadmap 2050 as the great transformation of the economy and society, of production and consumption. for this big transformation, you need all the actors, at all levels. i think it is good that you are setting up a resource efficiency platform in brussels. we would then have to do the same at the level of the member states, the regions and the local authorities. my question is, do you have a plan for that? mr bütikofer was right to ask about resource efficiency plans. it's the same theme. we have the napas and the namas, the adaptation action programs and the climate action measures. we need resource efficiency plans here too. are you planning to put this forward by the member states? then, of course, you need all the other departments. i will mention the minister of finance only once - that has been mentioned here: reduction of environmentally harmful subsidies, incorporation of external costs into our tax system. how do we win the finance ministers and, last but not least, the economy ministers? we need new business models that reward sustainability, not resource consumption. we must think of something new with the ministers of economy. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (2) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. madam president, thank you for your question. in fact, the traditional business model is built on consuming resources and wasting them. the producer produces something, doesn't care about the waste, the product goes to the consumer, and then it might end up in the waste. i can't do that anymore. we need a new business model where the producer is responsible for everything from production to recycling, to recycling. then, i think, there are new designs for products. there are new responsibilities for the repatriation. we must work in that direction.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we can think of many things, we can paint many things, but the fact is: the world population is growing, energy, land, water, food are becoming more and more scarce, and the world must change. the management of our scarce resources must consider the entire life cycle, from extraction of raw materials to transportation, transformation and consumption, to recycling and then disposal. it must become more sustainable and more environmentally friendly, and resource efficiency is an important part of our strategy for economic growth and job creation in the years ahead. the individual policy objectives of the strategy must also be coherent in themselves. the often-heard demand for the set-aside of valuable agricultural land is as much against conservation and sustainable use as is the sealing of land. farmers are already talking about land grabbing. i think it is irresponsible to stop food production in our climate-favoured regions. sustainable agriculture in europe is making an important contribution to solving the major challenges of the 21st century. it serves to ensure the world's nutrition, it provides renewable raw materials while preserving our cultural landscape and biodiversity created by generations. the strategy itself must meet the efficiency requirements. this means, first and foremost, that we do not constantly look for more calculations, more requirements, but that we use and implement existing laws and regulations better and more effectively. the resource of labour must also be used efficiently and sparingly. the production of ever new statistics based on ever new indicators adds bureaucracy, binds manpower and ultimately costs energy and money, and this is not efficient. ladies and gentlemen, let us not pretend that we can define efficient food. a good steak is a quality of life piece. that's energy, and that's happiness.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what should frighten us and cause us to panic is not the sheer number of young unemployed in europe alone, but the trend. from 2008 to 2011, the number of youth unemployed increased by 26.5%, according to the international labour organization. it is this development which urgently requires action. because we're not just cutting a whole generation off from the job market, we're cutting a whole generation off from a future worth living. if we give young people the feeling of total uselessness, we need not be surprised that young people turn away from this eu because they have no reasonable prospects of work and life. commissioner, i would urge you to: make sure that decisive countermeasures are taken! i'm aware of some things, but please make sure that the long-standing mental silence doesn't turn into operational haste. when i read that the commission is launching a programme to give young people financial support when they apply abroad, we are organising a travelling circus which does not solve the problem. on the contrary, it is counterproductive, because technicians, doctors, engineers and nurses are being recruited from richer countries that are not in crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need a targeted growth policy, we need to strengthen domestic purchasing power, public investment in education, research, alternative energy. that's the way. combined with european funding, it would then be possible to develop an integrated approach that would give young people a life perspective. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need a different policy to give young people access to the labour market. that's why i'm begging you!
i have to say, madam president, more than 7.5 million people aged 15-24 in the eu are unemployed and uneducated. and youth unemployment is rising. we cannot have a lost generation. the objectives were clearly stated at the hearing on the 'opportunities for young people' initiative in the committee on employment and social affairs in march: to provide young people with adequate skills, to give them access to education and training, to significantly reduce the drop-out rate. commissioner, we also need to network with three of the seven flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy: firstly, the improvement of education systems through youth on the move; secondly, the agenda for new skills and jobs; the promotion of labour mobility and lifelong learning; and thirdly, the european platform against poverty to prevent early exclusion. the eu level is to support local authorities, regions and member states in the fight against youth unemployment. by including the programmes lifelong learning, youth on the move and progress. the european social fund is a priority. it is coming down to develop personal skills, to take young people out of educationally deprived environments, to initiate apprenticeship programmes and to facilitate integration into the labour market. in my report 'generational justice', i called for the european youth initiative, which has been cited many times. after four months of unemployment, every young person should be offered a job an apprenticeship or further training , whereby the willingness to work also includes the ability to work. let us finally coordinate these initiatives better at eu and member state level. let us mobilize unpaid funds! let us also make use of the european semester to improve the coordination of national economic policies. our young people are worth all this effort!
question for the commissioner: mr clark, you and some of your predecessors have mentioned the reduction of bureaucracy as the panacea in europe for reducing youth unemployment. i would be very interested to know what you mean by that and whether you are aware of the consequences of certain measures.
the commission has already done so. many of my previous speakers have already mentioned that we are on the way to losing a generation of young people. i mean, we all agree that something is finally being done. if the first proposals were made in january or december of this year, we have already lost a few years of declarations of intent and of things that were not dealt with concretely, but rather responsibilities were shifted back and forth at european level. i hope this is over. one-sided saving is destroying the jobs of our young people. growth also creates jobs and training for europe's young people, and it also saves money for future social spending. what we need now is a bailout for young people, for european youth, which is given the same priority as the bailout for the banks. at that time, it was easy to spend 800 billion euros to save the banks. that was right, and that was important, but we have to do it just as vehemently with something that we need for the future that is much more important, or not less important. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a question of the european parliament's right to decide on the future of the community. and - as my predecessors have said - we must continue to use the structural funds for this purpose. i have started initiatives with my shadow rapporteurs for my report on the programme for social change and innovation, so that we can put in place concrete funding for a youth initiative. i hope that parliament, the commission and the council will support us in this, so that we can get these funds, if everyone says that it is so important, and that they will be incorporated into the other funds today. because this money is very well spent for the future of all of us.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have, as women, since 1957, since the treaties of rome, the right to equal pay for equal work. in 1999, the amsterdam treaty added 'equivalent', i.e. equal pay for work of equal value. in 2008 there was a very good report in this house which called on the commission to come forward with new legislative proposals to finally reduce the wage gap. in 2012, nothing but glossy brochures from the commission, and the wage gap is still at 17% on average, 21% in germany and rising in some countries. i cannot stand the commission sitting back and saying: we are going to make a few more glossy brochures, another campaign. we've seen for 50 years that it doesn't work. it is not a question of glossy pamphlets, but of further steps, including legal ones. there are many reasons for the wage gap. there are many problems which we cannot solve at european level. but there are some that we can influence at european level, and we should promote them, too, so that we can reduce the differences between countries. one point concerns transparency. but not transparency in the sense of glossy brochures, but transparency in the sense of wage distribution within companies. there are these models. in switzerland, anonymised data - of course, the name is not mentioned - show the wage distribution in the companies. in switzerland, all those companies which do not do this are excluded from public procurement. there's an example of how transparency also leads to less wage inequality. we should be enforcing this right to transparency throughout europe. the second point concerns the question of sanctions. in some eu countries, the fines a company has to pay for being sued by a woman are still lower than what it has saved up before. that's the wrong incentive! the point is to say that if you pay less, if you discriminate, it will be very expensive afterwards. the last point is the implementation of the question of equivalence. we need much better guidelines, standards, to make this right a reality. i hope we do not get another monologue from the commission. i am sorry, by the way, that mrs reding is not here this morning. we want not just the quota that helps top women, but all those women, the majority of women, who suffer from unequal pay.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on employment and social affairs. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to make it clear on behalf of my committee, the committee on employment and social affairs, that we were very critical of the fact that the commission has finally presented nothing but a study on the changing situation of the pay gap between women and men since 2008, and that we are very dissatisfied with this and do not accept it. despite formal equality between women and men, we are still far from material equality. the figures which have been mentioned and which the commission has also mentioned before are also to be questioned by us in that even the small reduction was mainly due to uneven figures or to altered statistics, especially with reference to the situation in poland, where there had been no corresponding statements before. so in that sense, that is also questionable. we point out that equal pay will not continue to exist unless the causes of wage inequality, such as discrimination, labour market segregation and lack of care, are addressed. we would like to have that specifically mentioned in the bauer report. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there are laws in europe. since 1975, we have had eu legislation to reduce the gender pay gap. but today, women still earn 16.4% less than men on average in the eu. missed the target? the question is, why? these wage differences are exacerbated by the pension. we all know that old age poverty particularly affects women, and it affects them very badly. the logic is simple: less pay brings less pension, less appreciated work brings less pay. child rearing, family and care affect the work biographies, especially of women. however, these benefits are not invoiced in euro and cents. they're not equal. but i'm arguing that family services and social services are more valuable to society than some jobs in an air-conditioned office. i am sure that if more men work in the social sector, things will improve. equal pay for equal work is something we must continue to work for if we are serious about gender equality. the report by edith bauer is a very good way of drawing attention to the abuses once again. we know: the problem of wage disparity cannot be solved by legislation alone. social thinking, the clinging to long-outdated patterns of life by men and women, must be abandoned. we must keep the discussion going over and over again like a prayer wheel. the commission is proposing to increase awareness of this problem among employers, workers and citizens. the awarding of an employer's award alone will not change this situation.
in writing. 2007 was the european year of equal opportunities. five years later, we are still in the same place in europe. we have the legal principle of equal pay for men and women. but the gender pay gap still exists. we're barely moving or not moving at all. i am glad that the rapporteur has therefore included concrete and detailed recommendations in the report alongside the objectives. we need class action lawsuits when the principle of equal pay is violated. wage discrimination must be prosecuted. we call for awareness campaigns to address the gender pay gap. we need representatives in the member states for equal pay. this will help to monitor progress in the member states. we must finally make a real move! in concrete terms, this means: legislative initiatives to demand equal pay for women and men.
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. we are very keen to cooperate with the eea and efta countries. we have a privileged relationship which we would like to develop in a very positive way. but this also means that we on both sides will respect the existing treaties, and of course we as the european parliament, as europeans, must also ensure that no discrimination is introduced within the states of the european union, whether by interpreting the texts of the treaties or in any other way. that is why i simply do not understand the swiss approach to the application of the quota arrangements, which switzerland is quite free to make contractual. what is unacceptable to us is that a distinction is made between the member states, between citizens of eight european union countries and citizens of the other european union countries. this is contrary to the spirit of the european union. we are all equal, and we all deserve to be treated equally. that is why we do not accept that a distinction is made here. the provisions of article 10 of the 1999 agreement apply to employed and self-employed persons of the european community. it is in the treaties that we ask for this, and we must also insist that citizens of the european community are treated equally. we therefore ask the european commission what is the state of discussions with switzerland in this area. we also ask you to make it clear that within the european union we have no first-class and second-class citizens and that the quota system must apply to the european community as a whole and no distinction must be made between citizens.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. i think we are dealing with a very sensitive subject when we talk about residence restrictions, partly because it is a source of support for right-wing populist and far-right forces. if a referendum is being called and carried out in switzerland at the moment by the right-wing populist swiss people's party on the issue of the quota for foreigners, then we are in the middle of a dilemma. i would also like to make one point clear to our group: neither eu citizens nor others should become a political bargaining chip and the subject of cheap right-wing propaganda in the course of so-called mass immigration, in this case to switzerland. the problem is particularly acute because they are eu citizens. look at who gets the most residence permits - over two thirds of them are eu citizens. in april 2012, the swiss authorities decided to introduce quotas for very specific countries in anticipation of compliance. looking at it again, it's a contradiction: the majority of residence permits, if you look at the composition as a whole, are known to be issued to germans and italians and not just to czechs or poles. the proportion of nationals of these eight countries is actually relatively small, and the 10% rule is invoked, which is ridiculous compared with other citizens. we have to be careful not to get too far ahead of ourselves. it's a very big trap, and i want to remind you of that. if switzerland now refers to the agreement with the eu and is using article 10 (4) it is highly questionable politically and counterproductive. we consider this to be a violation of the directive on freedom of movement and of the agreements with switzerland, and above all we consider it to be discrimination against certain nationals and certain countries. this can't be. we need a uniform treatment of all eu citizens, including switzerland. there can be no if and but here. we therefore reject the debate on quotas on these issues in principle, because it actually encourages xenophobic sentiments.
member of the commission. − mr president, the eu-switzerland agreement on the free movement of persons is of fundamental importance to the european union and for the more than one million eu citizens who live and/or work in switzerland. it is also a highly beneficial agreement for the swiss economy and one of the factors which has helped switzerland overcome the world economic crisis relatively swiftly. therefore, the decision taken by the swiss authorities to re-establish quantitative limits for nationals of eight member states is highly regrettable in the context of very close and very good relations between the european union and switzerland. as baroness ashton said in her statement of 18 april 2012, this decision is neither legal, nor justified by the swiss socio-economic situation. legally speaking, until 31 may 2014, the provisions of article 10(4) of the agreement are applicable without distinction to nationals of all the member states except bulgaria and romania, which are subject to another regime. according to the information at our disposal, it seems that the requirements for the application of quantitative restrictions under article 10(4) of the agreement were not met, as the number of residence permits that switzerland issued to eu citizens in the past year would not have exceeded the average of the previous three years by more than 10%. the agreement as supplemented by the protocol of 2006 permits no differentiation on grounds of nationality, either for the establishment of ceilings or for the introduction of quotas. regrettably, there are hardly any legal tools that the european union can use to reverse this measure. the only mechanism provided for by the agreement for the settlement of disputes is a joint committee of representatives of the parties. in the past, unfortunately, this mechanism has proved to be ineffective. nonetheless, the eu will bring this issue up for discussion at the joint committee meeting on 27 june this year. beyond the lack of an effective mechanism for the settlement of disputes, this agreement also has other shortcomings. the first is its static nature: the agreement is based on the legal situation in the eu in 1999, when it was signed, and does not take into consideration either eu legal acts or european court of justice case law after that date. there is provision for adaptation in the light of changing eu law only with regard to the coordination of social security systems and the recognition of professional qualifications. it is particularly regrettable in this context that the agreement does not take account of directive 2004/38 on the right of citizens of the union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states, and thus, that a different legal regime applies to free movement between the eu and switzerland. the second shortcoming is the lack of any mechanism for monitoring switzerland’s compliance, by contrast to arrangements in the eu or, for example, the european economic area. in that context, i regret to inform the house that no concrete progress has been achieved on most of the issues identified by parliament’s resolution of 7 september 2010, in spite of almost two years of discussions with switzerland within the joint committee, and in technical talks. the only matter on which i can report some success is the incorporation into the agreement on the free movement of persons of directive 2005/36 on the recognition of professional qualifications, although the relevant measures have yet to enter into force. finally, as regards these institutional issues in particular, following the visit to brussels in march 2012 by the swiss president and the federal councillor for foreign affairs, the swiss government launched a consultation domestically. it then announced that it would make concrete proposals on institutional matters to the european union. the commission will analyse these proposals and deliver an opinion on them once they have been communicated officially by switzerland.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the aim of this debate this morning and of this resolution is to express to our swiss friends our concern - and in particular the concern of the european parliament - that cooperation between switzerland and the european union also involves obligations, legal and political. the political ones have already been addressed. i am extremely grateful to you, commissioner, for mentioning the many legal obligations which, unfortunately, cannot be properly monitored and controlled in relation to switzerland, because a joint parliamentary committee is definitely not enough, given that we have so many bilateral treaties with so many mutual legal obligations. i therefore take this opportunity to point out that the commission is negotiating a framework agreement with switzerland which will replace this joint parliamentary committee in principle by a real court, such as the european court of justice, which will in the end be able to settle legal disputes by mutual agreement as a neutral body. i think that this must be an important message from today's debate, because discrimination against european union nationals is certainly not acceptable to anyone in this house, and we are therefore not only concerned with the free movement of citizens of these eight member states, but also, of course, with the free movement of many economic operators, both from the european union and switzerland.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. i am very interested in the cooperation between the european union and switzerland. so it's important that we address these things that are disrupting collaboration. we have heard that the rules governing the issuing of residence permits for eight european member states are not in accordance with the treaties. we deplore this action by the swiss authorities, especially in view of the fact that this is only one of many measures that threaten the implementation of the bilateral agreements between switzerland and the european union; the commissioner has pointed out the problems. this shows that the commission is and remains called upon to address in the joint committee the remaining steps towards the freedom to provide services in switzerland and the completion of an internal market. if we succeed in taking this a step further, if there is an agreement between the european union and switzerland that binds, if there are any points of disagreement, then it will be for the good of all. the decision of the swiss authorities is not only politically unwise, it is also unwise from an economic point of view. we know, for example, that there are many young, qualified polish citizens who would in future have the opportunity to work in switzerland and contribute to its prosperity. i hope switzerland will reconsider and withdraw it.
i would be happy to do that, mr president. firstly, you may have noticed that i have not chaired this debate from the beginning. in that sense, i regret that i missed the fact that you did have the discipline to be there in the first place. the rules of procedure themselves state that if we have five minutes to 'catch the eye', there are five speakers. it is up to the president to decide how to do that. i do not know all eight of the epp colleagues who have come forward. i actually chose from the midfield then. i have chosen a lady because the other groups had gentlemen, to ensure that the sexes were equally represented. i don't know if my answer will satisfy you, but after something, i have to decide. the eight epp members who have come forward have admittedly made a choice which was not related to who was sitting here for how long. i was not present at the beginning of the debate and did not take over the chair until later, so i was not aware of this. but i can assure you that i will take this into account next time - especially in your case. because if you have the discipline to attend a debate from beginning to end, you should also be given the opportunity to speak. i apologize that that didn't come up in your case. the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr metin kazak, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down general provisions on macro-financial assistance to third countries (com (2011) 0396 final - c7-0187/2011 - 2011/0176 (cod)) (a7-0157/2012).
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to congratulate my colleague, mr iuliu winkler, who is the shadow rapporteur for our group on this dossier, on his draft report. i would like to thank the commission very much for this proposal on macrofinancial assistance, because we have a very good legal framework here to help the countries that really need our help. what is important to us as the epp is that this instrument is actually used in very close coordination between the european external action service, the directorate-general for trade and all the other parties concerned. we must integrate this instrument even more closely into our european foreign and security policy than in the past. in the past, the instrument has shown that it works. since 1990, 55 macrofinancial assistance operations have been carried out in 23 countries. these are countries in our immediate neighbourhood that we are supporting and where we are showing that we are able and willing to really help these countries, especially in times of crisis, in times when these countries need our help. that is why we expressly support mr kazak's proposal that the final vote be postponed today. we want a quick solution. we hope that the revision of this instrument will then be able to enter into force very quickly and we would be delighted if we could find a good solution in the forthcoming negotiations.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, the policy department’s study ‘eu macro-financial assistance: a critical assessment’ provides a useful and telling assessment of mfa operations so far. it shows the impact of both the scope and the volume of the loans and grants to be very marginal in many cases. the new procedures under the lisbon treaty make the process of applying mfa more cumbersome. the consent of parliament is now necessary for all applications of the mfa, and we understand the willingness of the commission to simplify the procedures. mr kazak – whom i thank, on my own behalf and that of our shadow rapporteur, for his cooperation – proposes to apply the delegated acts procedure in respect of eligible countries and granting assistance to particular countries. as a group, we support this view. our group is not against the imposition of some conditions but they must be the right ones. our group considers it a serious mistake to continue to impose, within the framework of the mfa, the same conditions imposed by the imf. we need to address these challenges, in particular in the light of the current financial and economic crisis.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. (the sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon.)
i have to say, madam president, i think that no one has any objection to providing macro-economic aid, and when countries are in need, we want to help them, also financially. on the other hand, you need conditions. the first condition is, of course, that this money arrives where it is supposed to arrive, free from corruption. the second condition is that it is also real, real economic aid, and the third is that of course the emergency has really occurred. since there was still some clarification to be made, also between parliament and the commission, i think it is extremely important that we have not voted on the final text today and that we can discuss it again in the committee responsible in order to make this proposal, if you will, practical.
i have to say, madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution precisely because it is not just about the tymoshenko case, but simply and poignantly about the fact that every citizen - whether he is a normal citizen, whether he is a member of the government or of the opposition - has a right to a procedure based on the rule of law, and that is precisely what has not been fulfilled in the tymoshenko case, and that is why we must protest against it and use all possible democratic means to draw the world's attention to this. secondly, i would like to emphasize once again that i agreed to this. i also agree with paragraph 16, which says: 'wishes for a successful european football championship 2012 in poland and ukraine'. however, i personally believe that european politicians have no place at the games and therefore cannot appear as private individuals because the difference is simply not there. playing games, the european championship. politics should not be involved.
i have to say, madam president, i gave a fiery speech in the plenary yesterday in favour of greater resource efficiency, and i had to vote against the report today because it is simply too much bureaucracy. there's a lot of technology involved. we'll have a higher bureaucratic footprint. we have re-introduced the contribution requirement. we have asked for indicators and statistics. this is all beyond the goal. we are not yet at the stage where we can have a total ban on landfilling in europe. not everything is reusable. so the report has been a bit over the top. we must also think more deeply about taxation. that is why i voted against it today, but i would like to emphasize once again that i am in favour of resource efficiency. i'm all for new ways of thinking. but in the area of taxes, to think about it, that's just too much. i'm afraid i was wrong about point five. i want to be clear that i was against it.
in writing. − the tymoshenko case and the political developments in ukraine in general show that democracy and the rule of law remain values that are not taken for granted and for which we must actively work. in the period after the orange revolution, the spirit of reform in ukraine seemed to be high and the country quickly became a prime example of the success of the european neighbourhood policy. it is against this background that i deeply regret that political processes, political influence in the judiciary and state arbitrariness have found their way back into ukrainian political life. the european commission and some member states have reacted decisively to the current events, but not excessively. the absence of the commission's leadership from the european championships in ukraine sends a clear message, but should not distract from the problems in the country and possible solutions. i therefore welcome your intention, commissioner füle, to continue the association process with ukraine when positive developments and, above all, free and fair elections take place this autumn. in order to continue to support ukraine's development in a positive way, the european neighbourhood policy must also take into account the wishes and expectations of the ukrainian people. but before we can intensify our partnership, we must ensure that yulia tymoshenko is treated fairly. this must of course be done with due regard for their health and free from any state arbitrariness.
in writing. − managing our raw materials efficiently is an important step towards remaining competitive in europe in the future. the eu's resource poverty in many areas needs to be addressed through innovative and effective strategies. the biggest challenge is to increase economic output while consuming fewer resources. it is important that we do not want to limit the european economy by setting overambitious standards for its performance or even to tell each individual what he has to do. first, we should propose concrete measures that provide incentives to become more resource efficient in all areas of life.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not our group is against what is being said here, and we are co-signatories of the resolution on azerbaijan. this house is looking closed to baku this weekend. not because of the eurovision song contest. we had a colleague, dana scallon, who won the eurovision song contest over 30 years ago, which is another reason. but our main reason is that azerbaijan is an important partner of the european union, a member of the council of europe, a member of the european convention on human rights and therefore more than any other state is obliged to adhere to democracy, the rule of law and human rights. azerbaijan has taken these steps voluntarily and we welcome that. that is why azerbaijan must also accept that we look a little closer. i say very clearly: what happened in the run-up to the song contest - the demolition of houses, the expulsion of people from their neighborhoods, the non-compensation, the lack of rule of law, the beating of protesters, the suppression of freedom of the press, the suppression of religious freedom, the violation of human rights - is so unacceptable, precisely because azerbaijan is an important and valuable partner for us.
question for the commissioner: mrs nicolai, do you know that we are not diplomats and not businessmen, but parliamentarians who are committed to human rights first? and do you know that we do this regularly in the council of europe with partner countries, with russia, just this week with ukraine? of course, we must look at our partner countries in a particular way in terms of human rights.
question for the commissioner: mr. kirilov, are you aware that all week in the run-up to the song contest in baku the freedom protesters have been beaten up and beaten up and that our voters have all seen this on tv? they'd be surprised to hear that you don't think this is urgent, but you think it should be put off until people are in prison.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. north korea is usually a topic in the international media when and only when it is about our security or the threat of north korean nuclear weapons. i think it's important that we deal with this country that is so often forgotten, even when it's not about our security, but the security of the people in the country and the lives of the people in the country itself. in north korea, there is terrible poverty, lack of prospects, repression, and surveillance of virtually every aspect of life. those who disagree with the government must expect to be sent to camps, often not alone, but with all their family members, and the country as a whole has the character of a large prison. if you are tired of suffering, of poverty, of total repression, if you want to live differently, if you think differently and want to leave the country, if you manage to escape the country and make your way to the people's republic of china, for example, you must expect to be handed over to your persecutors again on the basis of a treaty between china and north korea which has existed since 1986. i consider this a great injustice and a form of complicity. china has signed the un refugee convention and its protocols, has signed the convention against torture, and i think that we should appeal to the people's republic of china to recognize north korean refugees as refugees on the spot in future, to grant them security and life and the possibility of both care in the country, through ngos, and of leaving for a country of their choice. but above all i appeal to the republic of north korea to end the persecution of dissidents, to open up the country, to allow international observers access and finally to grant its citizens freedom and human rights, and finally to the united nations to set up a commission of inquiry as a basis for possible further action, a commission of inquiry to investigate human rights in north korea and in particular the question of serious and continuing crimes against humanity in north korea.
the question of the blue card procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure to joanna senyszyn. i do not understand, madam president, and i did not understand after your speech, why the social democrats do not want to support this joint resolution. it is a longstanding and good practice in this house that we draw up joint resolutions on such matters. we'll meet in advance of that. that was the case here, too. we have discussed all the issues and, as i understand it, reached an agreement. the social democrats have said in the end that they will not support this. after all you've said, i can't see any reason why it wouldn't be, not even that it wouldn't be the right time, not the right topic or not the right person to talk to. so my question is, why are you abandoning that commonality in this particular question?
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 24 may 2012.
my dear colleagues! i would like to welcome to the podium the delegation from the united states congress: cliff stearns, co-chairman of the transatlantic legislators' dialogue, and his seven colleagues. welcome, dear colleagues, it is a pleasure to see you in the european parliament! (applause from the centre) the ladies and gentlemen of the us congress who are with us in the transatlantic legislators' dialogue attended the tld meeting in copenhagen on saturday and sunday together with colleagues from our parliament from the us delegation, and they will be attending a special session of the foreign affairs committee this evening to conclude their work here.
i am not going to go into detail. the council of justice and home affairs ministers agreed on a course of action on the so-called schengen evaluation mechanism after a short debate last thursday. this is the legislative procedure which is being supervised in this house by mr coelho as rapporteur. this decision has also provoked very strong reactions from all the groups in this house. i have been asked by virtually all the groups in this house to take up the matter. as you know, this is a unilateral change in the legal basis from article 77 of the eu treaty to article 70 of the eu treaty. the content is the exclusion of the european parliament from further legislative procedures. the conference of presidents, therefore, on behalf of the whole house, has asked the danish presidency of the council to hold a debate on the legal basis of the schengen evaluation mechanism at 9.00 a.m. tomorrow. the danish minister for justice, morten bødskov, will make a statement to the council, followed by a round of group leaders. i have said on behalf of the conference of presidents, in a telephone conversation with minister bødskov and in a telephone conversation with the president-in-office of the council, mrs thorning-schmidt, that the european parliament will vigorously reject any attempt to put the ax to the fundamental freedoms of the citizens of the european union. the european parliament cannot accept the action of the european council. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs will be dealing with the matter this evening and the results of the committee's deliberations will certainly play a part in the debate tomorrow morning. i would also like to inform you of the following: i have written a letter of congratulations to the newly elected serbian president tomislav nikolic, expressing our congratulations on his election as the new president of the republic of serbia. but i also pointed out in that letter that attempts to rewrite history are neither acceptable nor acceptable nor useful, especially since it has been recognised internationally - for example by the international court of justice, including the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia - that srebrenica was the site of genocide and a crime against humanity. we should call out to president nikolic: serbia's future is in europe! we all hope that serbia will not abandon the path of regional reconciliation. otherwise it will lose its way to europe. the president of the republic of serbia is well advised not to go down that road. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mrs leyla zana, whom i met during my official visit to turkey two weeks ago, thanked me for the unwavering support of the european parliament and asked me to pass on this thanks to you. mrs zana was convicted under turkey's anti-terrorism legislation. without prejudice to the content, we demand a fair trial. the european parliament will be following closely the appeal procedure against mrs zana. i have made this very clear to the turkish authorities. (applause from the centre) turkey has signed the european convention on human rights and we expect it to comply with it. respect for freedom of expression and the press is all the more important if turkey is to fulfil its role as a model for the countries of the arab spring. the country must be measured by the standards it claims internationally. ladies and gentlemen, what also shocks me is the situation of our sakharov prize winner asma mahfouz. she's facing a prison sentence. the appeals process is scheduled to begin on june 17. in a letter to the eu's high representative for foreign affairs, mrs ashton, i asked that our ambassador in cairo be present in person at the opening of the process. ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you will remember this young woman. mrs mahfouz was the young woman who, on the one hand, expressed her faith by speaking here wearing her headscarf, but on the other hand, in a lively and passionate speech, defended our civil values on which the european union is built. i have rarely seen in this parliament a young fighter for democracy as impressive as mrs mahfouz. for her activities, she is now facing a prison sentence in egypt. i think that the european parliament is called upon to say to the egyptians that people like mrs mahfouz are the future of your country and that you should not put them in prison but should promote them. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the commission statement on the eu trade negotiations with japan (2012/2651 ((rsp)).
before i open the list of speakers, i have an extraordinarily pleasing announcement to make. you see in the front row, right across from me, mrs lulling. she's just getting up. good afternoon, mrs lulling. mrs lulling is today 83 years old. i would like to congratulate you on this, madam president. (applause from the centre) mrs. lulling, you're as fit as a fiddle, i'll give you that. i'd like to compliment you on that. if you follow your dear president more in the future, you will become even younger! i'm very happy for you.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our resolution is essentially addressed to the council because we do indeed think - and this is somewhat in line with the question put by mr leichtfried - that we as a parliament should state our position on the allocation of mandates before a mandate is given. there's a good reason for that. you have already raised the resolutions we have adopted with many questions. the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european customs union with japan. we are in favour of closer trade relations with japan, because negotiations at the wto have stalled and japan is one of our most important trading partners in the world. last year, exports from the eu to japan were worth some eur 49 billion, and from japan to the eu some eur 69 billion - a very important part of our economic momentum. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the internal market. i know! but on the other hand, we have non-tariff barriers to trade, particularly as regards market access on the japanese side. that is why the commission has carried out this scoping exercise, and we have only recently received the results. it is right to analyse this again. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the introduction of new barriers to trade. the first is that there is an agreement at un level on technical standards for cars, but also for vehicle parts. this recognition is of course crucial for market access. the european union has signed almost all of these guidelines, but japan has only signed 43. in order to be able to supply car parts to the japanese market without hindrance, it is actually a basic prerequisite that japan also accepts the un conventions. or if i look at the fact that environmentally friendly vehicles get tax benefits, then in japan this is based solely on the jc08 test cycle, which logically is not followed by the vehicles we produce here because we test according to a different cycle, the european driving cycle. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the same tax benefits for environmentally friendly vehicles - we define them as those with less than 90 grams of co2 per kilometre - are also granted to european vehicles in japan, without thereby compromising the standard. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the building code doesn't allow that. so we need a more thorough examination of the scoping exercise and clear guidelines from parliament. we therefore ask the council to wait until september for the distribution of the mandate until parliament has drawn up clear guidelines for a mandate for trade relations with japan.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the european union is not the only one experiencing economic difficulties. japan too is in a long struggle, made especially difficult by last year's disaster. the eu's trade agreement with south korea, a direct competitor of japan, is putting pressure on the government and businesses of the country, and this is affecting jobs and the social situation in japan as a whole. but while many european governments are often quick to get excited about agreements with developing countries because they are always negotiated to the benefit of european companies and investors, it is the conservatives - here in the house too - who are putting the brakes on the talks with japan. knowing the plight of japan, some even demand a japanese kotau before they take a serious seat at the table. i am not going to go into detail. friends are proved in need. the epp is ill advised - and certainly all of us in this house - if it now wants to classify japan not as a partner but as a petitioner. we should also resolve the dispute over non-tariff barriers at the negotiating table on an equal footing. the aim here must not be to abolish as many laws as possible that our partner company has developed. we must analyse the regulations in question in terms of their purpose and seek an outcome which preserves the social benefits and yet favours the exchange of goods without reducing, for example, consumer protection or environmental objectives. we also take very seriously the concerns of japanese farmers who see their existence threatened by future european agricultural exports. but there can be no agreement even if the interests of the european people are not protected. my group will certainly not agree to a treaty whose investment protection chapter grants corporations a right to sue governments or the eu. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
question for the commissioner: i have three questions for you: firstly, do you agree with me that this resolution was tabled not only by the epp but also by almost all the other groups? secondly, do i understand you correctly, that there might actually be circumstances in which you could end up agreeing to such a free trade agreement with japan? and thirdly, do you agree with me that your group in this parliament has never voted for any free trade agreement, and that therefore there is a good chance that you will vote against it in the end, perhaps also with japan, and that your group will not do exactly what you have said, namely to do something good for the people of japan as well?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i thank you, mr caspary. i think that the point is that all or many of the groups have tabled this draft resolution together. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. that is why i have drawn attention to the need to make progress in the negotiations. in this respect, we must not just be scoping, but go one step further and, as mr lange has said, incorporate this consideration into the allocation of mandates. i shall then give mr caspary the answer to the second and third questions in person.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. just so there 's no misunderstanding , the good relations between the european union and japan are extremely important to my group and to me personally. japan is fortunately - like the member states of the european union - a liberal democracy, where human rights are respected, where we have a market economy. unfortunately, there are far too few countries in the world where this is the case. that's why we need to have a close relationship with that country. but it is also true that for years we have had the so-called high-level dialogue with japan, which has led to no results at all. the result was not that this high-level dialogue should be brought to a successful conclusion, but that japan and the commission should respond by launching a scoping exercise for a free trade agreement. some of the issues have already been raised. for example, you mentioned the railway sector, commissioner, and that is an incredibly good example: our railway public procurement market is largely open, japanese companies can apply. and we have to beg and plead and do everything we can to get a tiny bit of access to the japanese market now. this can't be the point. the same applies to cars - as mr lange has already mentioned - and of course the import figures for japanese cars into the european union are not much higher than our exports to japan. but we must not ignore the fact that the japanese have such good access to our european markets that fortunately they produce 100,000 cars in europe and we do not produce a single european car in japan. this also shows that we need fair conditions before we start negotiations. the next thing i want to say is that i wish we didn't have endless negotiations. if we are to enter into negotiations, we must also ensure that the commission has sufficient resources to bring these negotiations to a successful conclusion in a timely manner. we have been negotiating free trade agreements for years with over a dozen countries around the world, but have not concluded almost any of them. i hope that the commission will invest enough human resources to really achieve results in the free trade agreement with japan, that we will not negotiate for five or ten years and then stand by with no result, but that these are negotiations for which there is a fixed timetable. that it is agreed that these negotiations will be concluded within one, two, at the latest three years, before it will take another year on the european side, unfortunately, for us to have the translations. i would also like to mention another matter on which i would be very grateful if the commissioner could address this matter in the commission. i do not think it is good for the european union that it takes sometimes a year or more before parliament finally has all the translation variants after the negotiations have been concluded. this is another area where we in the commission need significantly more resources. the result: i wish we could start negotiations with japan. but i would like to see the european parliament make clear what we want to say beforehand and then the commission do everything possible to bring these negotiations to a conclusion within a reasonable period. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. dear colleague jadot. we are delighted that we have been able to achieve a great deal, particularly with the pressure we can exert as the european parliament. we have been able to achieve common objectives in parliament, for example on the free trade agreement with korea, which has also given us broad agreement. secondly, there are free trade agreements which have proved successful. we should look at the european union together. the fact that we have managed to complete the european single market, that we now have a huge free trade agreement in europe with common social and environmental standards, really shows that this path of common agreements can improve the overall situation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr christofer fjellner. he has succeeded in working out a good compromise position with many colleagues on the basis of a proposal which is already in the commission's order. what is the essential change? the main change is that this generalised system of preferences will be much more targeted in the future than it has been in the past. at present, 176 developing countries benefit from this preferential market access, and in the future, there will be about 80. this means that we are more targeted, so we exclude countries that have been slow to move towards higher incomes. and on the other hand, we will then be able to give them the bigger and more targeted benefits that they so badly need. our aim must be to get as many countries as possible out of poverty in the next few years through this preferential system. what can be done and what is good: it is good that we have at least ten years of planning certainty for the participating countries and also for the companies. the new instrument is not due to be revised for another ten years. this is much better than the situation in the past, where you never knew whether the system would change in the near future, whether you could move production to a developing country, or whether you had to expect to lose some advantage or another in the near future. however, we have also improved the conditions for aps+. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. on the one hand, we are making the aps+ much more interesting, that is, we are giving more incentives to countries to adhere to our standards, to do what we think is right. but on the other hand, we are also prepared to give advantages. i would like to see as many countries as possible around the world applying these gsp+ criteria in the coming years. finally, we have not changed anything for the poorest of the world, that is to say, for the poorest countries of the world, everything but arms remains the same. they are allowed to export everything except arms to the countries of the european union. i would be delighted if more of the world's poorest countries would actually take advantage of these opportunities. i call on european industry, i call on investors: please take advantage of this opportunity! the theme of 'everything but weapons' will also be stable in the coming years. invest in these countries and bring growth, jobs and, therefore, better living conditions for people in the poorest countries of the world. i therefore welcome the compromise reached. i am extremely grateful to all those involved for the rapid compromise and i am especially grateful that, through the rapid consultation and the rapid compromise also between the european institutions, we now have planning security for all and thus development opportunities for the poorest of the poor.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i also thank the rapporteur, mr fjellner, and also the shadow rapporteur, mr david martin, and the other shadow rapporteurs. we have really managed to negotiate a good compromise. i also urge that we adopt this compromise by a large majority, because it has really succeeded in making the unilateral advantages we give more specific. the eu's trade policy is often criticised. but in this area it is clear that we are giving unilateral advantages to the poorest and the poorest countries in the world so that they can strengthen their development on the basis of these advantages. we're going to make this more specific, and that's exactly the right approach. we invite countries through gsp+ to further intensify trade relations with us on the basis of shared values, on the issue of human rights, on the issue of sustainability. this also helps to strengthen sustainable development at the global level. so here's a reasonable approach. but we also made sure that there were no sudden disruptions in our industrial relationships. we have therefore put in place safety nets in areas where there is competition with our industrial products, so that we can say with confidence: 'we are giving unilateral advantages, but we are not putting jobs at risk within the european union'. the door is not closed to those countries which are excluded from the gsp. we invite everyone, including the most intensive - whether through bilateral trade negotiations, the wto or the wpas - to establish intensive trade relations with us in the interests of sustainable development.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the reform of the system of generalised preferences was absolutely necessary. it is good that there are now longer maturities and more guarantees for exporters. however, the criteria are too vague, as the committee on development has already said. the commission, unfortunately, refers only to the world bank classification. in this connection, parliament has in the past and repeatedly dealt very critically with the gross domestic product as the sole criterion. the definition of upper middle income countries can refer to countries with a gross domestic product of $4,000 or up to $12,000. so this is a huge and far too wide range, and it does not in any way reflect the realities on the ground. we certainly do not find it worrying that countries like saudi arabia and kuwait are being kicked out. so the reform was good. but these are high-income countries anyway. russia and china, on the other hand, are upper middle income countries, and we certainly need not worry about their exclusion from the gsp either. but this category of countries also includes much poorer countries, such as namibia and ecuador. the commission has also used the vulnerability criterion, i.e. countries which export little or very little. this, at least, avoided over-rating countries that are less dependent on exports and so very vulnerable. why has the commission then struck out this criterion? countries such as the dominican republic, fiji, gabon and botswana will therefore be excluded, although their economies fall under the vulnerability criterion. why has the commission not maintained the old criteria, which were already inadequate? the commission is suspected of trying to force poorer countries into more unfavourable free trade agreements. the preferential system is, however, an instrument for promoting development and cannot be replaced by purely commercial instruments, in which the development path of a country or region is no longer relevant. fortunately, however, there will still be an opportunity for members of the house to vote in favour of our amendment which takes vulnerability as a criterion. the new system also leads to the dismantling of trade areas. neighbouring countries in customs unions will soon have to follow different rules when exporting to the eu. this has nothing to do with our goal of regional integration. the commission should pay more attention to developing regions rather than to individual countries. we greens have tabled an amendment here too, which we hope will be very well received. it is also problematic that countries which benefited from the gsp yesterday should be excluded from the programme overnight. there must be transitional periods, and we see in our own countries that a few months is not enough for economic development. finally, we members must also consider whether we want to rely on speed and work with windy compromises in all legislative projects, or whether we do not want to involve the whole house. i think that the whole parliament is important for legislation, and for democracy too, and it is not time and speed that are important, but it is time that is needed to implement democracy and to pass laws properly.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the commission and the rapporteur, christofer fjellner, are seeking parliament's consent to a reform which would abolish the european union's trade preferences for a number of poor countries. this is hidden behind the debate on the criteria we have already entered into today. it sets a completely arbitrary threshold of an average per capita income of just over $4,000 a year. however, this figure does not reflect the real income distribution in many countries. in particular, the development processes there are not captured in their contradiction. do you remember the treaty of lisbon? the eradication of poverty is a coherent objective of the european union's external policies. their reform will destroy hundreds of thousands of jobs in countries like ecuador, and thus plunge the majority of women back into poverty. the motivation is, in my view, transparent and has already been publicly acknowledged by the rapporteur. i would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to mr fjellner for the openness and mutual respect shown in the debate on this subject. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted. the argument that the reform is intended to help the least developed countries is merely a superficial one. you know this because the trade potential will not shift to the weak, but to the strong. all the major development organizations, the development committee of this parliament and also the european trade union confederation and many national trade unions, mr lange, have supported the amendments and the tendency that we want to correct the draft regulation. we will be putting these proposals back to the house with members, and i am strongly advocating that they be adopted, thereby contributing to the european union not withdrawing from the global task of fighting poverty.
the next item is the council declaration on the legal basis of the schengen evaluation mechanism (2012/2687 ((rsp)). i would like to point out that there is no catch-the-eye procedure in this debate. i have agreed with mrs malmström that we will give the floor to mrs malmström after the group chairmen for her explanation.
president of the council. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank you very much for the opportunity to speak on the occasion of the european parliament's debate on this important matter. they say politics is the art of postponing decisions until they are no longer relevant. i don't agree with that. we're in politics to make decisions, decisions for the good of the people, even when the decisions are not popular. i'm sure that applies to all of us here today. the decision to change the legal basis for the proposal for the schengen evaluation mechanism is not equally popular everywhere, i am happy to admit. but it is necessary if we are to achieve the results that europe needs. in the light of the member states' positions, no other decision was possible in the council. the european union is for the benefit of the citizens of europe, and the creation of a european community without internal frontiers is one of the greatest achievements in our european history. it is our responsibility to protect that victory. a crucial prerequisite for the maintenance of a union without internal frontiers is confidence that the member states will fulfil their obligations under the schengen rules. there has been a strong political desire for many years to strengthen the schengen evaluation mechanism. a year ago the european council called for the evaluation system to be strengthened to deal effectively with the challenges we face and for a special mechanism to be set up to deal with exceptional situations where schengen cooperation as such is in danger. these are the two proposals that make up the so-called schengen governance package, which was presented in september last year. both the polish and danish presidencies have worked intensively on the two proposals in the council. i am therefore also pleased that a unanimous council met last week to find a common response to the challenges facing schengen cooperation. subsequently, particular attention has been paid to one of the elements of the council's joint response, namely the change in the legal basis of the schengen evaluation proposal from article 77 (2) (e) to article 70 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. what the council decided at its meeting, however, was made up of several elements: firstly, political agreement on the content of the schengen evaluation mechanism, including a change of legal basis from article 77 (2) (e) to article 70; secondly, the decision to consult parliament in accordance with article 19 (7) (h) of the council's rules of procedure, to ensure that parliament's position is taken into account as far as possible before the final text is adopted; and thirdly, a general position on the content of the proposal to re-establish border controls, which then forms the basis for the first informal trilogue with the european parliament on this proposal. it is an important decision and i am pleased to have the opportunity to explain the change from article 77 to article 70. firstly, it is important for me to state that if we were to have a new and strengthened evaluation mechanism, it was necessary to change the legal basis. the alternative was that we did not get a new evaluation mechanism. it was not possible to obtain the support of the council for a proposal which could be adopted under article 77. it is my clear conviction that we as elected politicians best discharge our responsibility to the electorate by keeping our focus firmly on our commitment to delivering results as well. in the council there was one and only one possibility of achieving such a result. of course, that opportunity was not to be lost on the floor. secondly, i would like to emphasize that the council unanimously supported the decision to change the legal basis. i would also like to emphasize that the council followed the very clear opinions expressed by the council's legal service on the basis of the proposal. thirdly, and i quote, the council made it very clear that it would take all aspects of the european parliament's position into account in its further consideration of the matter. i hope, therefore, and in this context, that it is quite clear that the decision to change the legal basis is a purely legal decision based solely on content and not on policy. it would therefore also be quite wrong, ladies and gentlemen, to turn this into a battle between the council and parliament. nothing, ladies and gentlemen, could be more wrong and more destructive of our common desire for a stronger schengen cooperation. it is important for me to stress that the council is committed to continuing the dialogue on the whole schengen package, not only the proposal on border controls but also the proposal on the evaluation mechanism. with the serious challenges facing the eu today, we need to work closely together to find answers to these challenges. only by working together can we find the solutions that the citizens of europe expect from us. the danish presidency therefore attaches particular importance to close cooperation with parliament. from day one we have had very close contact with the rapporteur on the schengen evaluation proposal, mr coelho. the same applies to other members of this house. we have listened and we have given parliament influence, we have had a good and constructive dialogue, and i would like to thank you for that. i am therefore also pleased that the rapporteur on the proposal, in a debate in the libe committee on thursday 31 may, recognised the presidency's efforts to incorporate parliament's views into the text now agreed by the council. with this proposal we have taken a major step in the right direction, and this is not least thanks to the efforts of mr coelho and other honourable members of this house. this is a strong desire of parliament, which has ensured that the council's compromise also includes the absence of internal border controls. the council's compromise also implies, in particular, a strengthened role for the commission, the possibility of unannounced evaluation visits, the application of the evaluation mechanism to both first and second mandate evaluations and, finally, a high degree of transparency with regular reports to parliament. we have had close contact and it is therefore certainly not a surprise to the presidency that these are points which are important to parliament. in addition, the proposal for the schengen borders code remains subject to the ordinary legislative procedure with parliament as co-legislator. i mention this because i know that the question of the reintroduction of border controls is very close to the heart of this house. it was therefore also important for the presidency to get the politically sensitive provisions on the very possibility of reintroducing border controls into the proposal for the border code. by moving these provisions we ensured that parliament remains co-legislator on these very key provisions, even though the legal basis for the proposal for the evaluation mechanism was changed. there was at one time a proposal to move the provisions on the reintroduction of border controls back to the evaluation mechanism. however, the presidency and many other member states were against it. if they had been moved, it would have been understandable for parliament to be critical of the council's action, but they were not. ladies and gentlemen, when we have today a union without internal frontiers, it is the result of many years of effort and it is therefore important to look at the proposal in a larger perspective. with the council's compromise, we are moving towards a more eu-based model. and as the outcome of the debate in the council last week showed, it is essential for the council to involve parliament as much as possible in the further work on the proposal. i look forward to the debate today, i've been looking forward to it. none of us should doubt that the council wants to continue a close dialogue with parliament on this matter. the presidency has worked closely with parliament on the proposal. the proposal is important for the future of europe. ladies and gentlemen, it is now our task to work together to take this proposal forward. the citizens of europe expect this of us. thank you for speaking.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the european council has already made a number of recommendations to the council. the worst thing for me is that i have the impression that the danish government is acting against better knowledge. all my discussions have led to the conclusion that i believe that in denmark, the government, which wanted to make pro-european progress in the schengen dispute in particular, actually knows that it cannot end well if social democrats go after the right-wing populists. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, everything has been said here, except for one aspect which i would like to stress again. it is indeed deeply outrageous to me that a danish presidency of the council, with which my group has sought close cooperation, should express its distrust of the european parliament as a whole on this day, and that distrust is expressed in a matter which is of relevance to our citizens throughout europe. we are not trusted to decide in the field of tension between freedom and security in favour of the well-being of our citizens. this parliament is made up of former heads of government, this parliament is made up of former ministers. you know them all. why do you think, why do the interior ministers of the european union think that we cannot be trusted with the security of the citizens? i feel that this is a deep scandal, and i think you're making a bit of an "emperor's new clothes" here. because the european citizens are so deeply uncertain about the financial and economic crisis, you are returning to a playing field that really cannot be occupied in this way by populists. you are putting an end to one of the greatest achievements of the european union, the freedom of movement, and that is truly shameful. we'll take this to court. i am sure that today is not - as you have written - a good day for denmark and europe in your presidency of the council. it's the saddest day of your presidency. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. ladies and gentlemen! the eu's open borders are the most important symbol of the eu in the world and have a great appeal to many people around the world. at the same time, as gue, as you know, we have always criticised the fact that the eu is also closed to the outside world. that is why it was so important for us to maintain the european emergency mechanism against which the council is raising such a storm. all i can tell you is that what you're doing here, what you're celebrating as a council, is underground. you must return to the foundations of the community! i urge you to do so! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. ladies and gentlemen, the council's policy in this case is anti-democratic because it wants to degrade us as a parliament to consultants. we won't let that happen! we have a contractual right to co-decision. we shall be able to do so and we want to do so. the second is that the council decision is profoundly anti-european because it nationalizes schengen. i ask you, the council, the danish presidency: do you want to re-establish the customs frontiers? you want to go back to the 19th century? what do you want to symbolize with this decision? you make a fool of yourself in the world and in europe. the third is that the council's decision is in the truest sense of the word populist and exactly supports the forces which stand for nationalism, which want a return to the national, which want to destroy europe. we cannot be satisfied with that. i urge you to reconsider your decision and become europeans again.
mr. minister, ladies and gentlemen, may i have your attention, please? mr president, i have the impression that the enthusiasm for continuing the debate is very one-sided. article 151 of our rules of procedure provides that speakers who have been directly addressed may make a personal statement at the end of the debate. this is true of the rapporteur, mr coelho, who has also been mentioned here on several occasions. i therefore give the floor to him under rule 151.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to thank mr gauzès and mrs ferreira and all the other members. i think we have worked very constructively on the content of the two regulations. it was a really productive experience. in the gauzès report we took the opportunity to further define the impact of the six pack on the different countries. the debate we had there enabled us to introduce a whole series of improvements. the first is that the social impact of the various adjustment programmes must be taken into account in future, as parliament has proposed. secondly, in future, the social partners and non-governmental organisations will be consulted in the preparation of the adaptation programmes. thirdly, the methods used to calculate the debt-sustainability of individual countries and to forecast the economic situation of individual countries must in future be made transparent by the commission. in the past, there was always the presumption of a good count. fourthly, there should be an audit of the remaining debts. and fifthly, democratic control should be strengthened in future by making it possible for the council to decide, not the commission alone, but the council, by qualified majority, who should be subject to increased scrutiny, so that there is no tendency to blockade. what i think is crucial is that these and other improvements proposed by parliament in the gauzès report should apply not only to countries in the future but also to those countries which are suffering from such serious social and economic problems now: greece, portugal, ireland. in this way parliament has taken up its responsibility to bring about improvements in the whole context of what was controversially but ultimately decided here, namely the six-pack. i would like to mention one last point which is actually part of the ferreira report but is currently being discussed in germany in a controversial manner: the debt repayment pact. if parliament is acting responsibly here, then that means that the problem of old debts must be taken into account. we must not respond by arguing that this is not part of the context. if the member states do not solve the problem, the euro will be doomed. the old debts must be discharged and that is why parliament must put this proposal forward with a strong majority. i can only appeal to the epp to give this amendment of parliament a wide hearing.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the 'two-pack' is intended to create further powers of intervention against crisis countries in the eurozone. the european semester, which was created as a framework for the necessary and better coordination of financial and economic policies, is to be put into practice. the commission has proposed that member states be able to be compelled to accept financial aid. the six-pack has already created a wide range of sanctions that can be imposed on euro area countries with financial problems. the european semester is already perceived by citizens as a democratic dismantling rather than a useful instrument for economic policy coordination. at the same time, the german government is openly threatening greek citizens with expulsion from the eurozone if they make the wrong choice in sunday's election. why don't we stop with these humiliating and undemocratic gestures of intimidation? in a situation where the euro crisis has again escalated dramatically - i am thinking of spain, of cyprus - it does us no good to put member states in crisis on the spot. we should finally be developing solutions! the two-pack rapporteurs have developed some very sensible approaches to this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the debt is paid off. but the proposal of an orderly state insolvency put forward by jean-paul gauzès might also be an option. but it is essential that europe makes a joint and united effort to put the eurozone back on a growth path. the strong countries in europe must stop complacently pointing the finger at their partner countries. they need to start doing their homework, investing in growth, taking responsibility. the unilateral austerity policy of merkel has simply failed as a solution to the crisis.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european model of economic and monetary union is based on the central monetary policy of the european central bank and the decentralised budgetary and financial policies of the member states. the member states have failed because they have not kept their own commitments, and the commission has failed because it has not checked. the financial markets have forced europe to adopt a variety of solidarity measures: the semester, the sixpack, the efsf, the esm, european supervision. but no one can absolve the national states, parliaments and governments of their responsibilities! the common debt promotes the idle and not the solidarity, leads to the punishment of those who are competitive and have done their homework in accordance with the contract, with higher taxes and interest. eurobonds, debt-servicing funds, blue bonds or red bonds are a misguided and expressly prohibited by article 125 of the eu treaty. they are not admissible without amendments to the contract. mr rehn said that there would be proposals on the table tomorrow. as regards the commission's responsibility, i would like to conclude with a quote from the former chief economist of the european central bank, otmar issing: 'how can we expect an objective and effective control from the european commission if this institution repeatedly engages in initiatives that are contrary to the treaty or conceals problems, thereby making their solution more expensive? other
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the crisis is continuing. the measures adopted in recent months or even years have not convinced the markets in a lasting way. it is urgent that the member states take a disciplined, balanced budgetary policy seriously. the two-pack can help to make progress in this direction. it can be the basis for stability and growth. however, there are a number of amendments tabled which seek to water down the text here. we need a real liberation strike, not a watered-down two-pronged solution. this relief may consist of two elements: firstly, the debt-repayment fund, which has already been mentioned by several colleagues, which helps to standardize and carry over a period of 25 years the old burdens which exceed 60% of economic output. secondly, we must make real progress in transforming the euro area into a genuine internal financial market, that is, a single market with crossborder banking supervision, a crossborder deposit guarantee fund and a single crossborder bank rescue or resolution mechanism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we should focus on what's relevant today and leave out what's not relevant today. what's the story today? the point is that we as a parliament want to get involved with the member states in establishing strict rules of the game which are not then entirely european, that is to say, they are decided here but, when they are applied, they no longer play a major role, as we have already seen in many, many cases - not only in the euro, but elsewhere. we want to establish rules of the game which really oblige the member states to do the things that are urgently needed to guarantee what states were originally created to do, namely to guarantee people infrastructure, education, employment, social security and many other things, but not at the expense of future generations and not at the expense of other member states. that is why we should not do the other thing, which is contained in a number of amendments, we should not develop new sources of finance alongside this obligation, which have only one purpose: to reward those who have not followed the rules and to punish those who have followed the rules. this europe will not work for ever! europe will only work if everyone follows the agreed rules of the game. that is why a debt-repayment fund should be rejected. for this is a punishment for those who have done well, in favor of those who have done badly. that is why we must reject eurobonds. this is to punish those who have done well and followed the rules, and to reward those who have not. therefore, these parts should be rejected.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it could also be said that the protection of critical information structures on the internet is an underestimated threat. the internet has become for many a place where information is stored and exchanged. that time is long past. the internet is now also used to make money flow, to do online banking, and ultimately to control security systems in economic life. we are not only dealing with economic espionage, but also with terrorism. or we have groups that just want to tear down internet connections and programs, just for the fun of it. it must be stopped. it's about the safety of all of us. that is why this report is so crucial. i would like to join those who have spoken before me in saying that this is a first step. we need to come together in the european union, but we must also think globally.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too have agreed to the own-initiative report, because the security of energy supply is also an essential element for our prosperity in the european union. the real issue here is to ensure a secure energy supply through an appropriate energy mix. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the other is to make the energy we need as efficient as possible. that is a second important point. i would add a third point: we should try to develop our own energy resources, including through scientific progress. because less energy we have to import is the safest energy supply we have.
in writing. - i agreed to the resolution. it is necessary and sensible to support the victims of the disaster in italy. the legal conditions for eu assistance are given here.
in writing. − the valuable work of many citizens in europe, often carried out in the context of voluntary organisations, is an impressive part of the european social model. i am therefore pleased that this report takes another step towards recognising volunteering after the european year of volunteering 2011. voluntary organisations, especially in european border regions, face administrative and tax difficulties when they want to operate in several eu countries at the same time. we therefore need not only an eu portal for volunteering, but also simplifications in the administrative area to strengthen these initiatives, because they are good for europe.
in writing. - i have approved the report. volunteering in europe must be possible across borders. the new qualification pass is designed to remove further obstacles. the european voluntary service is already used by thousands of people. we expect a further increase in volunteers and consider this project to be extremely successful. it also provides new opportunities for people to transfer their experience and skills within the community after leaving the labour market.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union is the region that is actively promoting the protection of human rights worldwide. and it is good that we now have an eu special representative or an eu special representative for human rights to support this work. it will not be an easy task, bilaterally or multilaterally, to take a stand here and reject attempts to undermine and undermine, for example, the universality of human rights and to make a proactive, strong human rights policy. we have a very good recommendation from the rapporteur, which outlines the many tasks of the special representative, including the task of making a better human rights policy within the eu institutions. i can assure you that we in the human rights committee will do our utmost to accompany and support this work. this mandate provides for the special representative for human rights to be able to write to parliament. i would like you to make this clearer so that the special rapporteur regularly informs parliament and is available for discussion. this is a very important matter for me and for our colleagues in this parliament. in conclusion, i wish you, high representative, a very happy hand in the selection of the eu special representative (s) for human rights. we need a qualified, charismatic person who is energetic but also very patient and persistent in his efforts to protect human rights worldwide.
madam president, mrs ashton, i have to speak to you. first of all, a heartfelt thank you to our rapporteur for this very good report. respect for human rights must be reflected in all the policies of the european union. in this very sensitive area in particular, it is essential that both the eu institutions and the member states speak with one voice and show a responsible and coherent approach. that is why we have been calling for a european union special representative for human rights for some time. the human rights ombudsman should not be bound by narrow thematic areas but should take a comprehensive approach to the promotion of human rights, democratic aspirations and the rule of law. this comprehensive approach must also be reflected in the ombudsman's cooperation with other actors. the success of the office will depend to a large extent on cooperation with political decision-makers, but in particular with representatives of local, regional and national civil society, as well as with regional and international organisations. only through intensive engagement of local and regional actors will we be able to work together to improve the human rights situation in this world in a sustainable way. the european parliament must fulfil its role in appointing the monitoring of the mandate of the special rapporteur. i therefore expect the commissioner for human rights to keep us regularly informed of his activities.
vice-president of the commission/high representative. madam president, today the international trade in weapons is one of the least regulated sectors of international commerce. armaments can be very easily diverted to the illegal market, can fuel conflicts and can be used in serious violation of human rights and international humanitarian law, and contribute to international crime and to terrorism. weapons that fall into the wrong hands can have a devastating effect on the regional and international peace and security. i would argue that international action is urgently needed to address this. through the negotiations of a legally binding arms trade treaty (att), we have the opportunity to set the highest possible standards to regulate international trade in arms. such a treaty can make trade in arms more transparent, or accountable, and prevent the diversion of weapons. the european union has been at the forefront of this initiative from the beginning. we strongly believe that the arms trade treaty has the potential to improve the lives and security conditions of hundreds of thousands of people around the world, by ensuring that weapons are traded in the most responsible way. the european parliament has also played a major role in this campaign. the resolution of this house adopted in 2007, at the outset of the process, helped to gain political momentum in support of the att initiative. i welcome today the adoption of a new european parliament resolution ahead of the un conference in july, when the treaty will be negotiated. this is a collective effort. eu foreign ministers will also agree in june on comprehensive council conclusions on the att, setting the priorities for the negotiating conference. to have real impact on the way arms are traded at international level, we need to make sure that the treaty we negotiate in the united nations will be as strong and robust as possible. the treaty should make sure that not only exports of weapons, but also transit, transhipment and brokering are controlled. there should be a shared responsibility by all players involved in the arms trade. similarly, we should make sure that all types of conventional weapons are controlled, and not only major military systems. transfers of large quantities of small arms can have a much more destabilising effect than the transfer of a limited number of large military vehicles. we should make sure that the treaty contains clear and strong parameters, against which arms transfers can be assessed. this should ensure that arms are transferred and used in full respect of human rights and international humanitarian law. a treaty should also include a credible implementation mechanism, requiring state parties to put in place national control systems to control the transfer of weapons and to penalise transfers that have not been properly authorised. finally, the treaty should contain a credible and clear transparency mechanism to increase accountability in the global arms trade. the unity and coherence of the eu as a block will be put under pressure during the negotiations. but we must remain united. that is why my services are putting a huge amount of time and resources into coordinating our negotiating position, so that we are ready to defend them strongly at the negotiating table. we are also proactively engaging with the major stakeholders in the remaining time. the treaty has been raised by the eu in all of our recent high-level meetings with third countries, including china, india, us, russia, pakistan and mexico. on top of this, we have been conducting a major worldwide outreach campaign since 2009 involving ten regional seminars covering almost all of the countries in the framework of two council decisions. our work will not end with the negotiation of the treaty. in order to have real impact on international peace and security, the treaty must be implemented. we therefore stand ready to play our part, including through the provision of assistance to those countries that show willingness to establish effective arms transfer controls, but will need support to do so.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i welcome the eu's commitment to the important subject of the un negotiations for a new arms trade treaty. i also welcome the fact that the eu has already supported third countries in the past to enable them, in a subsidiary approach, to impose more controls on the arms trade on their own. in my view, the following objective must not be lost sight of in the forthcoming negotiations: a comprehensive treaty must be reached which will allow for a workable and realistic control regime. the treaty must be comprehensive, with a view to the widest possible participation of all states and covering a wide range of conventional weapons. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the agreement to include the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. in addition, the treaty must retain a high level of legal binding force in order to ensure that international human rights provisions and international law are respected worldwide. you have rightly raised the issue of light weapons, which can also be easily transported, as a particular problem in many areas, far more so than sometimes weapons of mass destruction. i am glad to see the realism you express there. we need political realism also in assessing the demand from some parties for total transparency and accountability, including vis-à-vis non-parliamentary bodies. disclosure and reporting is something i believe governments have to do to their parliaments, as they are the central places of political will and control. the monitoring and reporting by ngos and civil society bodies is an important but complementary function. so i hope that we can succeed collectively, the eu and its member states in the united nations, in creating a really actionable and realistic regime to control the arms trade.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in recent years, the international arms trade has continued to grow, and the european union countries can once again claim the dubious distinction of being the leading player with 34%. many of these exports go to countries with - cautiously put - dubious human rights records and to crisis areas. the trade in arms must therefore be completely banned, particularly in conflict areas. the negotiations now taking place at un level on the arms trade treaty are a step in the right direction. it is to be hoped that this treaty will not become a toothless paper tiger like previous agreements. therefore, after successful completion, implementation must remain firmly on the political agenda. the constructive, intergroup cooperation on this resolution is a good sign and i am very pleased about it. i regret all the more that it was not possible to avoid the positive reference to the arms industry in paragraph 2 of the resolution. aside from the moral category, i would like to note that research has shown beyond any doubt that the impact of military spending on jobs is very small compared to other public spending. the main concern is to safeguard the profits of this industry, especially as disarmament and conversion can promote sustainable development, growth and jobs.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i should like to welcome the high representative/vice-president of the commission. the picture we get from syria every day is more and more desperate. let me reiterate that any leader who treats his people in this way – no matter how big his support might be, and i even doubt the 50 % – can have any legitimacy in our view. there are three issues we would like you to tackle. first of all, strengthen the local and internal opposition to pave the way for political transition. as you have mentioned to some extent, we need to support the internal opposition, the local committees –many of whom are working towards and form the diversity of the opposition movement – to help them build stronger links and, if necessary, to arrange meetings outside syria. but of course we need a political solution based on such an increase in internal coherence. i think you were right to mention the contact group; you mentioned russia and china. can i also ask for iran to be included? i know there are some opposing voices inside the un and us, but i think we need them to be a part of this if we want to have a solution, because they are part of the problem right now. we need to rethink our position there. if you find such a contact group and possibly a solution, i think we need to back that up much more strongly than with the current un mission. we need not hundreds, we need thousands; we need a full un peacekeeping mission and i think it would be high time to prepare for it now. we know how long it takes for it to be effectively deployed on the ground. mrs ashton, i call on you to prepare this now; to get it ready, so that in time of need we can deploy it rapidly and have a full-on mission on the ground, and not just a few hundred. let me be clear, i am not calling for a un mandate for international intervention as is the case in libya, but for a peacekeeping mission inside syria. one final point. you were talking about russia. are we ready to put all the incentives and sanctions on the table that are needed to convince the russians to allow for the downfall of assad? what is it that we are really putting on a table? what price are we willing to pay to get russia on board?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has been right to express its concern about the serious human rights situation there, and its concern that civil war may break out. i'm starting to think it's a civil war. the way in which civilians, women and children are being treated is absolutely intolerable. but we have to see that we need a policy that isolates assad from his own people. it is not him, but his followers who must be made to understand that there is no future with him as a person. that's always the condition for a system to implode. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i think that the commission should be more specific in this respect, so that it does not feel that it has a port there and can continue to operate in this way. that it becomes clear, especially to his followers, that they have to break away from him if they want to have a future for themselves, to achieve a peaceful intra-syrian solution, which is not possible with assad himself. but i also think that there is a particular responsibility here on the part of qatar, saudi arabia and some other arab countries, which are obviously supplying arms, which are obviously selectively giving money to the opposition, as they did in the elections in egypt, with the aim of contributing to an islamization. it is necessary that countries such as saudi arabia and qatar, which officially always declare themselves as liberal countries, be publicly shown their responsibility, that this game is no longer accepted, that they bear a special responsibility here and that the arab league can then play a better role in this way. that means involving the united nations and china and russia to achieve the first goal, and making clear the responsibility that qatar, saudi arabia and others have. because now in the west, to decide to go to war here, there is a different situation than in libya, in terms of population and geography. but we should also make it clear that the rights of minorities must be guaranteed in all circumstances. i see the concerns of the christians there, who feel threatened by some of the opposition, and this should be taken into account if we want to have a sensible solution here.
high representative! it was not until 8 june that they condemned the settlement building in the occupied territories. you have pointed out today for the xth time that the construction of settlements is illegal under international law. the council also reaffirmed in its conclusions on the peace process of 14 may that the viability of a two-state solution must be maintained. it is therefore incomprehensible that we in the european parliament should now approve the acaa additional protocol to the association agreement with israel. it is particularly important to note the following: the precise way in which settlement products are treated in eu-israel agreements has not yet been clearly clarified. such products still find their way onto the eu market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the meantime, israel continues to flout its obligations under international law. settlements continue to be built, enlarged and moved at will, while the eu stands by. a two-state solution is thus literally buried under the settlements.
mr president, the honourable high representative cathy ashton! before i say anything about syria, i would like to thank you and your team, who are doing a very good job on the ground, for your efforts. we do not even know where to start in the region. what is happening in syria is already a civil war. let 's not kid ourselves . children are being used as shields and abused, there has already been a domestic conflict, it is in full swing. and when you call for military intervention in syria, it's not like you see it in libya. there's nothing to do with a no-fly zone. it's a house fight, street by street, that would have to be fought there, and i don't think there's an army in the world today that would be willing to go there and carry those burdens. but it must also be made clear to assad and his clan that there can be no solution for him. there can be no survival for him as president there. he must be brought before the international court of justice. the isolation of the syrian system must be strengthened, and the keys to this are russia, china, but also qatar and saudi arabia. the pressure must be increased here, and the international community must express itself much more clearly and support the un. we would like to encourage you to do so and we would like to support you in this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. lady ashton, you spoke about the importance of peace in the middle east region, the role of the quartet in the middle east, and the need for the eu to support jordan and the quartet. the israeli government says it is in favour of a responsible peace process and a two-state solution. but the reality is different. the gaza strip remains an open-air prison. the eu and the un must raise more and more money to feed the people of gaza, and the israeli army has destroyed eu aid projects worth 50 million euros in occupied palestine in recent years. aid projects aimed at improving the living conditions of the palestinians: schools, infrastructure, educational projects. we owe it to our taxpayers in the eu to make it clear to the israelis that this must change and that the israeli settlement policy must finally be ended.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are very broad-minded in our activities in the congo. the high representative mentioned our two security sector reform missions, eusec and eupol. we can achieve a great deal with such measures if the political will of the government is there. i think that this offer must continue. i would like to focus on the elections and the action to be taken afterwards and once again thank mrs maria nedelcheva for her report. it took more courage than i had in tunisia, for example, to speak out so clearly about what had been observed there. there was a strong man who wanted to remain president, and there were also circles who had an interest in keeping it that way. if we accept the facts we have gathered and the recommendations based on them, to do something better next time, and if we make it our homework - also as the eu delegation on the ground - to work this out, then we have enough to do. and i would like our delegation from kinshasa, as well as from other countries, to report regularly on the state of implementation of the recommendations and then also to make suggestions as to what we can do from here to get our partners in the congo to actually do that. this would be a call not only for the congo but for all the countries in which we have carried out election observation.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i was also a member of the european parliament's electoral observation commission in the democratic republic of congo and i could see how many hopes and expectations for a better future people had lined up at the polling stations waiting to cast their votes. we now know that those expectations were not met. although the congo calls itself democratic, these elections were neither fair nor democratic. we must take a firm stance on this, as mrs nedelcheva has done in her report. the previous president, joseph kabila, declared himself the winner of the elections, and the opposition is being suppressed. in the east of the country, violent clashes between government troops and so-called rebels have flared up again, and it is unclear whether third states such as rwanda are involved. the civilian population is the one who is suffering, and it has not been able to live in peace and quiet for decades. the country's wealth is squandered in a swamp of corruption, and congo remains one of the lowest in all international rankings. the international community - and here particularly the european union - must use its resources to increase pressure on the president of the republic of the congo to allow real democracy in his country - he will have the opportunity to do so at the next regional elections - and to ensure that the congolese army does not continue to harass the civilian population, but that internationally wanted criminals against humanity such as bosco ntaganda are finally apprehended and brought to justice. the european union must not be allowed to continue to use the arms of the congolese people. without outside pressure, the human suffering and poverty in this country will not end.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in tibet (2012/2685 ((rsp)). i would remind the members present that there is no catch-the-eye procedure in this debate.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, defence and promotion of human rights around the world is a key component of the eu’s foreign policy. in this context, we follow closely the human rights situation in tibet. we consider that our human rights dialogue with china is an essential part of the eu-china relationship and in this context we are committed to engage with china to improve the situation on the ground. the european union is concerned by the deterioration of the situation in tibet, illustrated by the wave of self-immolations and by clashes between police and local people since the beginning of the year. in recent days, we have been particularly concerned by the news of mass arrests and detentions taking place in the tibetan autonomous region following self-immolations in lhasa, as well as reports that the area has been closed to foreigners. honourable members, some 37 self-immolations of tibetans have occurred in china since 2011. these have been concentrated in sichuan province but have also taken place in other tibetan-populated areas where increasing restrictions on religious activities seem to have given rise to a surge of frustration and protest among tibetans. over the last three years, an increasing number of tibetan intellectuals and cultural figures have faced criminal charges or been imprisoned. we are worried by restrictions on the expression of tibetan identity and freedom of expression in tibet. the eu has taken note that the five-year plans adopted by the chinese authorities in january and march 2011 include an expansion of hydropower, railways, mining and tourism across the tibetan plateau. we welcome china’s wish to raise the living standards of the tibetan population. however, there are reports of growing discontent among tibetans regarding local development policies, and of protests against mining and hydro-electric projects. the eu supports the chinese authorities and their wish to better protect the environment in china, but nevertheless we are most concerned about the impact of the policy of resettlement of tibetan nomads. tibetan culture and traditional lifestyles are based on a nomadic way of life. while taking note of the chinese authority’s commitment that the resettlement of nomads is intended to preserve the tibetan grasslands, we do question whether the objective of environmental protection can only be reached by eliminating the traditional way of life of tibetans who have lived for centuries in harmony with nature. we are concerned that the compulsory resettlement of all nomads has the potential to destroy the distinctive tibetan culture and identity. we are also worried by the impact of the policy to make mandarin chinese the primary language of instruction in tibetan schools, as in schools in other minority-populated areas. several hundred students protested against the reform of the education system that seeks to promote education in chinese rather than in tibetan in qinghai province. we are also concerned about the intensification of restrictions on religious activities in tibet, including quotas of monks and nuns who may reside at a monastery and measures limiting their travel between different areas. honourable members, we raised all these issues at the eu-china human rights dialogue on 29 may 2012. we call upon the chinese authorities to ensure that the human rights of the tibetan people are respected, including their rights to freedom of expression and freedom of assembly, as well as the right to enjoy their own culture, to practise their own religion and to use their own language. we also urge the chinese authorities to exercise restraint and to allow access by foreign diplomats and journalists to all tibetan autonomous areas. following the last meeting between the chinese authorities and the envoys of the dalai lama in early 2010, the eu strongly supports the restart of the dialogue between all parties in order to contribute to a durable solution. we believe this dialogue can contribute to the improvement of the human rights situation of the tibetan people.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not we have made a number of points in our debate on human rights. we do not accept the violation of human dignity, the injustice, the persecution of minorities. the situation in tibet is one of them. you, baroness ashton, as the eu high representative, have very well addressed the events surrounding the kirti monastery, the siege, the deportation to unknown places, the torture, in the eu-china dialogue. you were right to ask for clarification. the response from the chinese authorities was clear: the monks themselves bear responsibility for the social unrest. the massive suppression of tibetan culture, spirituality, language and the elementary chances of survival has not abated. that's why dozens of nuns and monks have burned themselves to protest, but also to show their impotence. desperate cries for help must not go unheard. on behalf of the tibet intergroup of our house, the epp and the vast majority of european representatives, i would like to repeat our longstanding request: appoint a special representative for tibet, following the example of the us state department. or appoint a future human rights coordinator, a person who will be responsible for tibet in a visible way and coordinate the activities of the commission and the council. since there has still been no appreciable improvement in living conditions, the issue of tibet must be on the agenda of every meeting you have with the representatives of china, madam vice-president. the tibetan people, who have suffered immeasurable suffering for decades, need this sign of hope and european solidarity.
the debate was closed by the tabling of five motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 14 june, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
i would like to thank the interpreters and the colleagues who have been patient, as well as the services on my right and left. thank you, baroness ashton, for your incredible endurance, sitting here from 3 p.m. until this evening. i wish members had that endurance as well. thank you very much for being here with us! (the sitting was closed at 8.45 p.m.)
the next item is the joint debate on the council and commission statements on the preparation of the european council (28/29 june 2012) (2011/2920(rsp)) and the council and commission statements on the multiannual financial framework and own resources (2012/2678 ((rsp)).
before i continue, i have a very pleasant announcement to make: today is commissioner lewandowski's birthday. i would like to congratulate him on this. (applause from the centre) mr lewandowski, there is no better birthday present than this debate.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i do not share the doomsday scenarios that have just been played out to us here. but i want to make it clear that a fiscal union based on the two-pack is, in my view, the anticipated bankruptcy of the old european idea. we are once again following events in parliament. that's my concern. we will have a summit at the end of june, which will be prepared, which will take place, the family photos will be taken, and it will be done as if everything were going on as before with a few changes. we are in the midst of a change! we are still being told the old nursery tales of the good old eu. it is only apparently - and i would like to stress this in particular - that there is a contradiction between the initiatives which lead to the establishment of supranational structural policies and the renationalisation of policies which is intensifying in the wake of the crisis. these are two sides of the same coin, namely fiscal and banking union to continue the eu as a neoliberal project at a new level. and this is accompanied - on both sides - by massive social cuts, drastic cuts in public spending and also tightened sanctions mechanisms. the logic of this way of thinking is to push the parliaments and, above all, the european parliament to the side. that is why i very much support the protests against the challenge, the renationalization of elements of the schengen agreement. i am therefore very much in favour of parliament expressing itself very clearly on the multiannual financial framework and not allowing ourselves to be sidelined. the community method shall not be replaced by the union method. it can't be. we are interdependent as institutions, and any institution which tries to belittle the other will contribute to the destruction of this idea of the european union. i would like to draw attention to this in the context of the multiannual financial framework. it is also part of the process of discussing the fact that the eu's aid policy, as originally intended, is now being reinterpreted. funds that should be used to reduce disparities between member states and regions are now being used to create a multi-speed eu - one can no longer speak of only two speeds - and to intensify competition for locations between regions within the european union itself. if you're weak, you should stay weak. the funds go where strengths for global competitiveness are to be developed and market proximity is sought. the commission is also proposing to introduce macroeconomic conditionalities and to withdraw regional aid if member states do not comply with the criteria of the stability and growth pact. it is absurd and cruel to punish people who live in these regions multiple times. you know exactly what i'm talking about in that sense. instead, we need sustainable growth, based on strengthening the public sector and also on public accountability. that is why i think you are setting the wrong priorities and the wrong conditions. this makes it difficult to talk about a different europe. why are you blackmailing the voters in greece? why are you denigrating all those serious initiatives and alternatives which come not only from the left but also from scientists from several european countries who say that we need to open a window which will allow us to buy time and which will allow us to link the two urgent demands of the greek people: they want to remain in the euro, but they also want to have conditions which will enable them to survive and live. and we as the european parliament must be strong for that!
mr hartong, i regret to have to tell you that the dutch have rejected the constitution. they ratified the lisbon treaty. you might want to check it again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the six packages were adopted by a very large majority in this parliament about a year ago. we were way ahead of the curve with a lot of common ground. we agreed that the solution to the problems required vigorous, realistic austerity. we're on our way to say goodbye to the two-pack. and now these days, suddenly, it's not working with the community. the compromise reached in the committee on economic and monetary affairs has failed because some groups have suddenly stopped participating. suddenly, sounds like, "we just have to spend more money and all the problems are solved". and everybody knows that's nonsense. where's the money coming from? there will also be limits to what is possible for other sections of the european citizenry, who can only be given a limited amount of money. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is not distorted. the old answer, the old song that never pulled! no, no, we have to go the hard way! the difficult way is to save and see where we can put the money we have - we have money in europe - wisely and properly! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. where are the reports, the checks, the considerations as to whether what we are doing is right? qualification, spending the right money, incentives, building trust, long-term! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. growth is a work in progress! for growth, you have to create conditions for people to organize that growth, and you have to be careful not to go the wrong way!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we must do three things in the european union: consolidate our budgets, introduce structural reforms and set up specific growth incentives for psychological reasons, to give people, european citizens, new hope, but also to overcome our common problems. mr wammen began his speech this morning by saying: 'we need growth and we need jobs.' yes, and at the same time denmark is one of the net contributors who want to cut the european budget. how stupid, how short-sighted, how un-european! the mff is really one of those growth instruments that we need urgently. we must pursue our common objectives: tax collection, and that is the financial transaction tax, because it is a fair instrument. we have to get this through. it is a matter of justice that the banks should finally participate in financing the crisis. this cannot simply be the responsibility of the taxpayers, the crisis cannot be passed on to them. what a good proposal by commissioner lewandowski to finally understand that we must now move forward with the financial transaction tax! two thirds of it must be used as own resources for the european budget. the member states have an advantage in that they have to pay less money to the european budget, and yet they still have an incentive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. so i want to advertise it again: this is not a radical left-wing proposal, mrs merkel! mr lewandowski is part of your own party family, and what is so important we can implement this proposal in 2012. if everyone were to participate, we would have over 47 billion euros of additional revenue in 2014. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. how can anyone be so stupid as not to understand that the european budget is the democratic element which, with the participation of the european parliament, can provide these growth impulses for europe. we should all have the courage to make this sensible policy between parliament and the council!
mr president, i would like to confirm at the very beginning that the cooperation with the danish presidency on the multiannual financial framework (mff) has developed quite well, and i insist that the good experience in this sort of pilot project will finally lead to real negotiations prior to our getting a proposal on the mff regulation and on a new inter-institutional agreement. the resolution we will vote on today includes our key messages towards the meeting of the european council at the end of june. our basis for negotiations remains the garriga report from the temporary committee on policy challenges (sure). we say very clearly that we need adequate financial resources in the eu budget which are linked to better spending; we insist on the community method; we say very clearly that we are not ready to agree on expenditure without a proper agreement on future own resources; we insist on the unity of the budget as an iron principle; and, of course, we are asking for sufficient overall flexibility. here, despite some positive elements in the negotiation boxes on the unity of the budget – although the details are yet to be negotiated and this must also include the additional means which are outsourced at this stage – we are talking about eur 24.5 billion – the negotiation box on flexibility is still quite empty, and it has to be filled to come to a good solution. and, of course, we have to follow the rules in the consent procedure and to respect the codecision procedure of the 65 multiannual programmes. i would like to say as well that the position of the president of the commission is in some ways understandable, but on the other hand there is a huge risk concerning giving up the community method and going back to national contributions in special instruments. this is a real danger in the long-term and is working against the community method. i would like to say as well that we should not only talk about better spending in the budget. concerning budget consolidation, it is also important that the commission stop any proposal for eu legislation which means additional bureaucratic burdens and costs for member states, for regions and local communities, and the legislator has to do likewise. finally, mr president, i hope that the commission will support parliament’s position this time more than it did last time, in 2006.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. unity is strength! that's what it's called. so we should all be able to walk together in a very tight circle here, because the vast majority of us here - parliament, the council and the commission - are in agreement: europe needs growth, europe needs jobs! but how do we translate the unity of analysis into action? the european budget is involved here, the common budget, which is an investment budget without any constraints on consolidation, because it has no debt. a well-equipped european budget, with an innovative structure and the necessary flexibility, is the common instrument to exploit europe's growth potential, to open up new prospects, to compete in the global race for talent, technology and market leadership! the common european budget is our common european opportunity, our common added value! it is not so difficult to understand, and the council is doing it!
blue-card answer. – mr president, of course we have to make a very clear distinction, i was talking about legislative proposals. i stress also that within the package of the 65 multiannual programmes on cohesion and agriculture policy the commission did not fulfil the request of its own secretary-general asking for a reduction in the bureaucratic burden, asking for simplification. if ministers in the agricultural sector are telling me that there is an additional bureaucratic burden of 15 to 20 %, we have to correct this. we cannot ask for budget consolidation at member state level and, at the same time, force them to spend more on bureaucracy because we have decided on complicated eu legislation. this is a very important element, in terms of consolidation and progress and legislation. as far as the question of unspent resources is concerned, i would like to refer back to the policy challenges committee. the question of carry-overs of unspent funds and reprogramming to obtain better spending for smes and to combat youth unemployment are very useful elements. we support this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to congratulate you, mr lewandowski. but i wouldn't wish you luck today, but i would wish your namesake robert from borussia dortmund that he hopefully still shoots poland into the quarterfinals. that would be a real treat. we have just heard some things about the council and the future of europe which are to be decided on, which are to be discussed at this council. and i think it is very important to listen to what mr bokros has said. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's the key. the public budgets can at best provide suggestions. we have to explain that to the social democrats. you can't buy growth, you can only enable growth. the key is therefore that the structural reforms that commission president barroso has mentioned must also come. the second really crucial thing is the debt-relief pact, a clear, effective debt-relief pact with clear conditions, which relieves the households in those countries which, despite all their efforts, are currently - for example, italy - simply unable to get out of the constraints of their refinancing. we need a clear and effective debt-repayment pact.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are talking a lot this morning about targeted growth in the european union. cohesion policy is a european investment programme which we have at our disposal for growth. that is why we need at least as much money in the future budget as we have at our disposal so far. the friends of cohesion are not against better spending of money. i am not sure, however, that the friends of better spending in the council really want a good cohesion policy, which we need to get out of the crisis. i would like to make a second point. in the negotiation box, which has been discussed here many times, 90% of all points in the area of cohesion policy are in fact in the codecision procedure with the european parliament. please accept that this is the first time that parliament has participated in the co-decision procedure in all areas of cohesion policy. we will finish the negotiations in committee by mid-july. then we have a mandate and can negotiate. i hope the council will be prepared to do so.
i thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for rising from your seats in honour of the president of the republic of peru, mr humala, whom i warmly welcome to the european parliament. (applause from the centre) mr president of the republic! the european union's relations with latin america are of particular importance to us. the european union and this parliament have traditionally had close relations of a transatlantic nature with the united states of america and canada. but transatlantic relations are also relations with the latin american part of the american continent. it is clear to all of us that cooperation with the countries of latin america is becoming increasingly important for the european union. one country which has been particularly committed to the idea of regional integration under your presidency is peru. as president of peru, you made it clear at the beginning of your term of office that you considered the cooperation of states and peoples across the borders of latin america to be the way of the future. this is exactly the same idea that underlies the european union: to overcome the divisions and to seek the cooperation of states and peoples in common institutions for economic, ecological and social progress. that's what you've just started, including the pacific partnership. so welcome to an institution that shares this very spirit of regional cooperation. i would like to thank mr humala. you are in the final stages of important negotiations with your country on a free trade agreement with the european union which must be ratified by this parliament. we have made progress and we all hope that we will be able to conclude this agreement to the satisfaction of both sides - that is to say, also to the satisfaction of the members you see here. finally, mr president, i am delighted that a man who is a champion of democracy and the rule of law in his country is a guest in a chamber of deputies whose great concern is the defence of the individual fundamental rights of all people, wherever they may be in the world. that is why the european parliament is always watching very carefully what is happening to human rights in all countries. we hope that in this common spirit of peaceful cooperation between regions of the world, we can deepen and develop relations between the european union and its individual states and latin america and its individual states, in this case peru. i am pleased to give the floor to you, mr president. welcome to the european parliament! (applause from the centre)
thank you very much, mr president. i should like to thank you very much for your very impressive words. i would like to reiterate that the members of the european parliament must have listened very carefully to your last words. we would be happy if all those who come to government would act in such a way that they would implement as heads of government what they had previously rejected. we in the european union may also have some need to learn from you. mr president, thank you for coming. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, the european union is a community project, it is an economic union, a political union and also a union of values. and it goes without saying that if someone is in need, the european union must help each other! of course, this requires clear rules. i think the rules of the game are important not only for the one who receives help, but also for the one who gives help. and you also have to be able to control the conditions that are set in advance, the rules of the game. just as important, you also have to make decisions about what actually happens when, for whatever reason, the rules you've set for yourself are not followed. this may also mean that some member states who wish to receive assistance must also renounce certain of their own competences, or that the commission may also intervene if necessary. i therefore endorsed this report and this proposal because i believe that it is an important part of the overall solution.
i have to say, madam president, i rejected the report on the two-pack, not because i think we do not need tougher and clearer rules on the road to fiscal union. of course, if the eu is to survive, it needs a new foundation of trust and stability. no, i rejected the report because this debate is being abused by those who think that we can just as easily adopt a road map for the com munication of european debts and also adopt eurobonds. ladies and gentlemen, debt-servicing funds and eurobonds are preventing national reforms and prolonging the debt sickness. this is poison for european cohesion. the glue that has held us together has always been freedom, values and mutual responsibility. the eu cannot unilaterally impose responsibility on a few countries. this will never be accepted by the people of austria, the netherlands, finland or germany, and the applicant countries will also take note of this as a very real deterrent. i'm really for stability, but i'm against one-sided loads.
i have to say, madam president, i regret that i could not agree with this report. no one doubts that we need fiscal consolidation and a programme for growth and employment, so far it is good. but you should test the effectiveness of new instruments before you use them. i am particularly sorry that this review of the eurobonds and the old-age pension fund has been virtually deleted from the report. in my view, ignorance is being covered up by actionism, and actionism can then lead directly to disaster. the second point is honesty. of course we need a programme for growth - nobody is investing in it, but we should also be honest about it. and whoever then writes that they want to spend 1% of gdp per year on a growth programme, that is to say that we would be able to afford a european budget on the side, is simply not being honest with our citizens. i am sorry to say that i have had to reject this report.
i have to say, madam president, i voted against the ferreira report for several reasons. when we look at our newspapers in germany - today there is a big one in which the german chancellor asks what is still being observed in europe, or cyprus - the next candidate for the bailout - i ask myself: what is next? i think that the six pack is the next two-pack, and i think the two-pack is the next zero-pack, because we don't know how it's going to work anymore. i am very worried that we, as elected members of parliament, will be the last to know the secret plan that the european commission and the institutions have, and how things will go in europe in general. because i firmly believe that in the future we have to think about how it's going to go at all. the people in my constituency are so bad that it is clear: we want to help, but we also want to have rules, and these should be followed and controlled. that is why i cannot agree to another debt, a debt europe, a transfer union, as we already have in many areas. i am against eurobonds. i am also against project bonds because i do not think they will help us to act in a meaningful way here in the future and to move forward together. i hope that the european institutions will at some point make this so-called secret plan transparent and open to us, and that we will know what it is all about.
i have to say, madam president, i voted for this report because it is simply the basis for resuming serious negotiations not only with the commission but also, and above all, with the european council. i think it is simply unfair that we as a parliament are being sent on a journey: we have to decide on new reforms in the new financial period 2014-2020, this concerns the cohesion fund, this also concerns the european agricultural policy in particular, without knowing exactly how much money is actually in the war chest. i do not think the procedure is particularly fair, and i simply hope that with this resolution we will give the procedure a boost, that we will give it new strength, that the member states will finally tell us how much money is actually available. because sound finance is a foundation for making sound planning and sound reforms at all.
i have to say, madam president, i have agreed to this report simply because trade can also be a factor of value added if it is conducted fairly and justly. i think this resolution once again clearly underlines that trade must of course also be mutually beneficial. it's also about both sides giving up a little bit. i believe that this request has been met, and that is why i have agreed to it, and i hope that the negotiations will be successful, that a so-called free trade agreement will not be at the expense of the european union alone. i also expect a lot of concessions from our partners in japan.
in writing. - last year, parliament, the commission and the council agreed on the 'six-pack' in the conciliation procedure. it strengthens the rules in the member states in order to reduce debt effectively and to limit new debt. this important step is now followed by a second with the 'two-pack'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. we need more europe, not less, in the interests of all the euro-states! a uniform timetable for all budgetary planning shall be developed and aligned with the european semester. the fiscal pact, the six-pack and the two-pack are all directly linked! they cannot be subjected to the fluctuating mood or opinion polls. it is a matter of pure polemics when the necessary austerity measures agreed by consensus are slandered and a growth policy is glorified. only when budgets are repaired and reforms are implemented can effective investment be made in the medium and long term. the epp group has for years supported growth thinking, which was and is the basis of both the europe 2010 and europe 2020 strategies. so this is not new! only on the basis of sound budgets can the money of the people be invested in education, training, infrastructure and the fight against unemployment. we need growth with substance that is not funded by the pump.
in writing. - i agree with the explanation of vote by my colleague dr thomas ulmer.
in writing. the fdp in the ep is clearly in favour of the introduction of a debt-repayment fund. however, participation in the project must be subject to clear and strict conditions, as proposed by the council of wise men in its proposal to the federal government in autumn 2011. a dilution of the criteria for participation is neither productive nor useful. the link between the introduction of a debt-repayment fund and the eurobond project and the treatment of economic imbalances is unfair and is strongly opposed by the fdp in the ep.
in writing. the fdp in the ep is clearly in favour of the introduction of a debt-repayment fund. however, participation in the project must be subject to clear and strict conditions, as proposed by the council of wise men in its proposal to the federal government in autumn 2011. a dilution of the criteria for participation is neither productive nor useful. the link between the introduction of a debt-repayment fund and the eurobond project and the treatment of economic imbalances is unfair and is strongly opposed by the fdp in the ep.
in writing. the fdp in the ep is clearly in favour of the introduction of a debt-repayment fund. however, participation in the project must be subject to clear and strict conditions, as proposed by the council of wise men in its proposal to the federal government in autumn 2011. a dilution of the criteria for participation is neither productive nor useful. the link between the introduction of a debt-repayment fund and the eurobond project and the treatment of economic imbalances is unfair and is strongly opposed by the fdp in the ep.
in writing. − i and many colleagues from the cdu/csu group in the epp group have agreed to the two-pack to ensure that the central concern of fiscal consolidation and thus of containing the sovereign debt crisis finally becomes binding for all. we are, however, firmly opposed to paragraphs 27 and 67, because they are irresponsible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the same is true of debt-repayment and growth funds.
in writing. - i could not vote for the ferreira report because of amendments nos 68, 27 and 67. in its proposal to the federal government in autumn 2011, the council of wise men had called for clear and strict conditions for participation in a debt-servicing fund (amendment 67). the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund is a very good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the proposal. the linking of the introduction of a debt-repayment fund to a roadmap for euro/stability bonds and the treatment of economic imbalances is also unfair and not effective.
in writing. - i have given my provisional approval to the report, out of solidarity with the group. the final vote is still pending, and i shall vote no on this point unless it is clear by then that no debt-servicing funds and eurobonds will be allowed to come through the back door. the current audit mandate must clearly demonstrate that the member states' own liability will not be undermined. it cannot and must not be that the thrifty diligent are punished and the undisciplined profit from it. the crisis must be tackled at the root of the problem, which is debt and lack of budgetary discipline, and anarchy in some countries if taxes are not collected. this is a question which will affect the whole union in the long term.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the gauzès and ferreira reports because i believe that the secondary legislation of the fiscal compact is of particular importance for europe and the eurozone. i think it is not very useful, however, to call for a debt-repayment fund in the context of the ferreira report, when the committee on economic and monetary affairs is at the same time preparing a report which will evaluate all the questions concerning a better european response to speculation on the markets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because it is intolerable that, after the successful conclusion of the peace agreement and the independence referendum provided for in it, fighting has now broken out again in sudan, which has been plagued by bloodshed and violence for decades. both sides must prevent the escalation of the conflict by an immediate cessation of violence and urgently clarify the remaining political and economic issues of the agreement in order to contribute to a peaceful settlement of the conflict and to stability and security in the region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because, after the independence of south sudan, the military conflict between sudan and south sudan has flared up again and has already claimed many lives. the european union must work with the african union and the united nations to persuade both sides to abandon the armed conflict. only then can we help south sudan to build up sustainable state structures and promote the emergence of a civil society. after decades of bloody conflict, the people of south sudan have the right to develop peacefully. the governments of sudan and south sudan must resolve their conflicts at the negotiating table and not by force of arms. the final failure of both states in their military conflicts and internal conditions has far-reaching implications beyond the region and should not be tolerated by the international community, including the european union.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, let me first thank you on behalf of the commission and my colleagues lászló andor and algirdas šemeta for this opportunity to discuss the first real european semester after the entry into force of the ‘six-pack’ legislation. the commission adopted two weeks ago its most important package of economic policy proposals of the year. we put forward country-specific recommendations for the reforms that are needed to deliver stability, growth and jobs in the 27 member states and for their citizens. the member states have taken last year’s recommendations seriously. efforts have been made to implement them, but progress is still very uneven between member states and more needs to be done. to supplement national action, the european level must play its part. the commission has put on the table concrete proposals to enhance sustainable growth, some of them have been on the table already for several months. they are about creating competitive services and energy markets, a digital single market, investing in infrastructure, promoting research and innovation, and getting better access to fast-growing markets around the world. such growth-enhancing structural policies must be supported by enhanced investment, public and private. we need more cross-border and community investment in renewable energy and green growth, in transport and communication infrastructure, as well as in research and innovation. to this end, we have proposed an increase in the eib’s lending capacity. we also welcome the recent agreement on our project bond proposal to unlock up to eur 4.6 billion in a pilot phase. to support growth, we also need a european budget that has the magnitude and the means to invest in the future. in the talks on the next multiannual financial framework, i count on the full support of this house. at the same time, with last week’s proposal on bank resolution, the eu is the first body in the world that has fully delivered on its g20 commitments to strengthen the regulation and supervision of the banking sector. this is a very important signal ahead of the g20 summit in los cabos, where one may expect some other leaders to be tempted to put the blame for the crisis only on europe’s shoulders. and, as we said two weeks ago in our policy statement, we are preparing further steps towards a full economic union to complete our monetary union, including through a financial union. the main building blocks towards a financial union should include such common elements as a single rule book, integrated financial supervision, a common resolution authority and a single deposit insurance scheme. all these common and integrated elements should be part of the same overall framework, the overall construct, intended for the 27 member states, while allowing stronger requirements and deeper integration for the euro area as necessary. the basic principle is clear: the sharing of risk in the guarantee scheme calls for an integrated, strong supervision of the banking sector. there can be no further mutualisation of economic risk without deeper integration of decision-making. in other words, to move further in mutualisation, it is necessary to strengthen our stability culture. this basic principle should guide the future construction of both financial and fiscal union. the commission supports a strong involvement of the european parliament in the strengthened european semester. in this context i would like to thank parliament, especially the committee on economic and monetary affairs for organising the opportunity to have an economic dialogue on the european semester on monday this week. i found it very substantive and constructive and i hope that this sentiment is shared. the commission stands ready also, in future, to actively participate in any discussion on the outcome of this year’s european semester. i trust that parliament will fully engage in the multilateral surveillance of economic policies in the european union and will be able to ensure that country-specific guidance will be both relevant and ambitious.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i believe that the european semester is a key element in the further development of economic cooperation in europe. if we do not succeed in bringing our economic policy guidelines closer together, the euro will not end well either. that's why it's so interesting to see what the reality test looks like after a year. the reality test is actually very different. there are countries like bulgaria, which probably nobody would have expected: a real model pupil in the implementation of the recommendation. and there are other countries that have done almost nothing so far: slovenia, slovakia, malta, spain, everywhere the results are rather mixed. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. they say low-income earners should be taxed less and burdened less with social contributions. they say we should raise environmental taxes and tax the lowest earners less. and you also say we should do away with some professional over-regulation. all i can say is, you're right. and you also say that the education system in germany offers too few opportunities for those who do not come from such strong parental homes. all right, all right. if i look at the implementation in germany, i have to say that nothing has really happened in this direction. i am a little sceptical that when you look at the commission's evaluation of the european semester, you have to look a long way to begin with. you can find the evaluation in the working papers. the working papers state that the relevant points are 'partially implemented'. but that "partly" is really a very small part. you seem to be looking for something to justify this "partly". we need two things now: firstly, the test: will the proposals which have not been implemented be put back on the table? i can only say that in the case of germany you have done so. very well, you have shown courage, you also confront germany with it. when you checked whether or not it was implemented, you hid a little too much in the fine print. i wish i had more courage to say clearly who did what and to say it as clearly as it is. this will enable us, the citizens, the politicians and the media, to really look into this and make the whole european semester project a success. (the speaker agrees to answer two questions under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i have not, to be honest, claimed to be able to say which country is doing everything right and wrong in terms of crisis policy. i was simply trying to see which countries had done well in the commission's assessment and which had not. the purpose of this discussion today is to talk about the european semester and not about corruption and the distribution of the structural funds in general. we know we have a corruption problem, but that's not the issue here. this is about which countries have implemented the country-specific recommendations, and i have identified the countries which have had particular difficulties in doing so.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not i have listened carefully to what mr giegold has said. he praised the european semester, which is intended to examine and evaluate economic policy issues, but also drew the conclusion that the education system in germany was apparently criticised by the european commission as being too rigid. you promised. now, i would like to ask you, mr. giegold: have you not noticed that youth unemployment in germany has reached a historic low? have you not noticed that the employment opportunities for citizens in germany are as good as in any other country? and do you take this to mean that the conditions for training in germany are particularly bad?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. mr schwab, you know the pisa results for germany, and they are not very visible, to be honest. as regards the permeability: if you grow up in a home with parents who are more distant from education, then in germany your chances of entering university or of completing the secondary school are particularly poor. the commission points to this, and it is absolutely right. it is right that jobs are also being offered in germany. but these have largely originated in the low-wage sector. we now have 25% of jobs in the low-wage sector. the very people who suffer from the poor educational opportunities are the ones who are now stuck in the low-wage jobs. the problem of the permeability of the education system and the elimination of these low-wage jobs have both been unfortunately neglected by the previous federal government. and that the commission dares to point this out is really commendable.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. in june 2010, eu leaders finally recognised that the european community needed a better-coordinated fiscal and economic policy. the summit was the birth of the european semester. it is quite right that in an economic and monetary union, members cannot be left to look at the impact of their policies on businesses, workers and consumers in their own countries. a european perspective is needed. a single market without coordination of economic, wage and social policies presents member states with a great temptation to create short-term growth and jobs at the expense of their neighbours. such imbalances can lead to the breakdown of monetary union, both economically and politically. this is precisely the situation facing the eu today. the german economy has been digging up its neighbour's water for years, there has been no boost from investment and wage growth, instead berlin has almost ruined the eurozone with a decade of aggressive export policy. it is therefore welcome that the commission is now beginning to address and recommend this core problem of the euro crisis in its country-specific recommendations. the commission is right to ask the federal republic to invest more in education, research and childcare, and the commission is right to ask it to stop the abuse of mini-jobs and to adjust wage growth to productivity growth. this is a late but important discovery. i hope, commissioner rehn, that you will make this demand to the german government with all your might, even though there is no formal procedure for surplus countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european semester is intended to be the moment in the year when the european commission issues country-specific recommendations on economic and budgetary developments. i think it is a very positive development that we are moving more from the general macro level to country-specific recommendations and also to criticism. but i think, mr commissioner, mr vice-president, that we must also be careful. the debate we have just had, which mr obermayr considered to be country-specific, is in fact always in danger of interfering with matters which do not really belong to the european semester. i think that we must also be careful not to make a general assessment of certain countries or certain institutions in countries, but to deal with the economic, budgetary and fiscal issues in detail. i think there is a second point that needs to be added. the implementation of what we have achieved in the european single market acquis is absolutely crucial and relevant for the development of europe. commissioner rehn, we shall have our next debate on this subject shortly: would it not also be helpful, in the context of this assessment of each country by means of the country specific recommendations, to also raise the question of the implementation of internal market law? the european semester in economic matters has been a model for bulgaria, for example, and there are many others, including germany, to avoid any misunderstanding, which need to catch up. but europe can only succeed if we see the budgetary and financial questions together, as well as economic policy and internal market law. i would therefore strongly encourage us to consider including internal market law implementation issues in the country-specific recommendations.
vice-president of the commission. - thank you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for the weighty speeches and for this very serious debate, which reflects the serious economic situation we are currently in in europe. unfortunately, there is not enough time to answer all the well-founded questions and comments that you have raised in this debate. i am particularly pleased that the commissioner responsible for the environment, mr andor, has been able to speak on this subject, and i am particularly pleased that the commissioner responsible for the environment, mr andor, has been able to speak on this subject. the two main issues that emerged in this debate were, firstly, that ownership in the member states is absolutely key to the success of this new economic policy coordination, as was emphasised by, amongst others, mr wortmann-kool and mr hughes, and from this point of view it is good to remember that the new economic governance or the new economic covernance and policy coordination has been adopted unanimously by 27 member states and the european parliament, and this is a very democratic procedure, when all the member states and parliament have jointly decided and agreed on the way in which the union's budgetary administration is to be strengthened. the commission's role under this new system is to make recommendations on the basis of economic analysis, looking in particular at the development of the member states' own economic and fiscal policies from the point of view of sustainable growth, competitiveness and employment. we have done so, and it is good to remember that in this new financial administration there is a significant act which emphasizes the importance of economic policy dialogue in that the council is expected, as a general rule, to follow, to comply with the commission's recommendations or the council must justify and explain if it deviates from these commission recommendations. this also means that the traditional political tinkering or political bargaining in the council, which led to the collapse of the stability and growth pact in 2004 as a result of the german-french cow-trading, supported by the italian presidency, is over, that time is over and now, thanks to the reverse qualified majority created with your support, we are much better able to ensure that member states should follow the recommendations or they will have to explain or otherwise face the consequences. so this gives a much stronger european perspective on matters where a european perspective is needed, because there is so much interdependence between member states and the consequences of economic policies, particularly bad economic policies, are reflected everywhere else in the european union, particularly within the euro area. another key issue has been the growth-oriented approach to macroeconomic imbalances, which was emphasized by de backer and giegold among others. in this respect, i would like to stress that we have looked at the european union as a whole in the recommendations and looked at how best to strengthen the growth fundamentals by measures for both deficit and surplus countries, and in this respect europe is currently undergoing a very difficult but necessary balancing act. the deficit countries need to generate a gross domestic product surplus to bring their own indebtedness under control and to put a stop to its declining trend, and this inevitably requires strengthening competitiveness and improving employment. the surplus countries must also play their part, and it is important that they strengthen domestic demand through structural reforms and thus support the better development of the european economy as a whole. president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for a very substantive and serious debate. i would like to continue with you and give the floor to algirdas šemeta and lászló andor.
member of the commission. − mr president, because of time pressure let me respond in a nutshell to my portfolio issues – or rather, i should say, three little nutshells, one of them about the very charming german dialogue which emerged at a certain point in the chamber. indeed, we believe that on quite a few issues in employment and social affairs, germany offers very good models and very good practices. let me just highlight the importance of dual training and the resulting low level of youth unemployment, and the intensity and quality of the social dialogue, which should also be seen as a model for others. it is true that on some other issues which we highlighted in the document, like rising in-work poverty and the so-called ‘mini jobs’ which threaten the segmentation of the labour market, while this is obviously not yet such a serious issue as in some southern countries, it is an emerging problem with implications for others as well. that is why we believe it is very important to reverse this and act against it. there is also a need to act more forcefully on the gender dimension for creating equal opportunities in the labour market for women. another small nutshell, on pensions. there was a reference to developments in france after the elections. i believe that in some member states, including france and italy, very important pension reforms have been designed and implemented, and it is very important to consolidate these reforms. however, we do not judge these developments from the headlines of either the tabloids or the political press, and i need to find out the real implications of the proposed new developments that came out of france. it is about fine-tuning in order to consolidate a reform. i believe i will have an opportunity to discuss this with the ministers as early as next week in the epsco council and to see what the real magnitude and implication is of the otherwise very impressive slogans that emerged and probably played a role in recent weeks in the political discussion in france. the third point i would like to make is that the country-specific recommendations, together with the entire semester, cover a wide range of issues, but they do not cover everything, and many issues including, for example, youth unemployment, cannot be fully covered. we put great emphasis on youth unemployment in the semester and in the country-specific recommendations where this is relevant, but we are taking many actions which are not covered here. they take place outside, and include the very significant reallocation of the esf or structural fund resources. this is, of course, something to which one should pay attention and not just assume that because it is not highlighted again and again in every single document it will not make an impact. similarly, about public investment and other forms of investment in physical, but also in human capital: there are certainly references in this document, but i believe it would be very relevant to link the comments we have heard to the discussion on the next mff, because these need to be long-term commitments and are part of the long-term structural development of the financial architecture of the european union.
member of the commission. − mr president, as some honourable members have rightly pointed out, this year’s european semester puts a special emphasis on tax issues. this is fully justified at a time when the road towards a stronger fiscal union would mean, as president barroso explained this morning, more coordination on taxation policy. at a time when the consolidation efforts of our member states go well beyond expenditure, it is important to remember that some ways of increasing revenues are less distortive than others and more pro-growth. our recommendations in the field of taxation, which go out to all member states except finland and slovenia, are focused largely on five areas which are fundamental to quality tax systems. what do we recommend? first, we recommend tax shifts from labour taxation towards more growth-friendly taxation. this recommendation was given to eleven member states. we also consider that some member states could put more emphasis on green taxation and make their taxation systems greener. green taxation is much less harmful to growth than taxes on labour. we also recommend to some member states that they broaden their tax bases and also reduce their debt barriers in corporate and housing taxation. it is very important to take this into account, because in some member states these taxation barriers actually caused high corporate and household indebtedness, which was one of the causes of the current crisis. finally, we recommend our member states to improve their tax governance, particularly by intensifying their fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. we are currently preparing the proposals which will be submitted to the european council at the end of this month regarding how we could better address the issue of tax fraud and tax evasion. a few more urgent actions are needed at eu level to contribute to the growth and jobs agenda. the first of these is an agreement on the savings directive and a mandate to negotiate with the swiss. i hope that the european council at the end of this month will give finance ministers strong guidelines and ambitious timing targets towards an agreement. then we have to push for progress on ftt and on etd, which are both on the agenda of next week’s council meeting. a lot of technical work has been done and it is now up to the member states, after this parliament expressed its support, to accept their responsibility and prove that tax coordination can progress.
member of the commission. - mr president, hello to each and every one of you. ladies and gentlemen, we are at a crucial moment in the construction of europe: in a few days' time, an important european council, the choice which the greek people will make on sunday... this is not a moment for pessimism or catastrophism. it must be one of voluntarism, responsibility, determination. the world is watching and waiting for us. i have seen it again in recent days on the other side of the atlantic, in canada and the united states. in the world that is watching us and awaiting us, we must remember that not all the world's problems come from europe. let us not be short-sighted, the financial crisis did not originate in europe. it was born in the united states with all the consequences that continue. we must say to the world that is watching: 'be demanding, be impatient, be critical of europe but be fair, be equitable. be clear-headed and look at what we have been doing for the last two or three years to learn from these crises and put the economic, budgetary and political functioning of the european union back in order". the time has come, ladies and gentlemen, to express our confidence, as i do in front of you, in our institutions and in our capacity to take the right decisions and implement them, and our confidence in the capacity of greece and the greek people to play their part in the euro area and the union. what is certain is that we will not come out of these crises the way we entered them. we are facing a crisis of confidence, of markets and, above all, of citizens, and we must affirm our strategy for overcoming the crisis and open up new prospects - in the short and medium term - for economic and political integration within the european union. what are the problems and what do we need? we now know that there can be no single currency without solidarity and without common economic discipline. that is why we need a renewed economic and monetary union. we've made some progress. olli rehn is one of the actors with the support and determination of the european parliament. we know that the financial crisis and the vulnerability of the banks are at the root of the budgetary problems of the states and of the euro crisis. that is why we also need to go further and build the banking union that president barroso has spoken of, among other things. whether it is supervision, the single rule book, resolution, we must go beyond what has been or has just been proposed in the past months. the member states will still have to be willing, consistent and ready to make efforts, to choose truly european solutions. i am thinking in particular of the question of deposit guarantees, which is currently blocked at second reading, probably because of a lack of ambition on the part of the council. we also know that europe must be built with the people, not without them, with the genuine democratic legitimacy that you represent. that is why further down the road there must be a strengthened political union, as chancellor merkel said recently. ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about the future of the internal market, which has been the first stage, for the last 60 years, of the first foundation of european political construction. and the role of the commission is to propose to work for the union as a whole, the union of 27, on the basis of the community method, only one single market including the financial services. and this single market of 27, soon 28, i would like to remind you that it is our first asset if we want to act to bring growth back. all current and future reforms will have a better chance if the single market works better. in this debate on growth, neither the european parliament nor the commission is surprised by anything that has been said in the last few weeks. for two years now, the commission and parliament have been working together to put this strategy on track with europe 2020, the monti report and then the reports by your colleagues, louis grech, mrs kalniete, mr correia de campos and mr buşoi. and it is thanks to all these combined efforts that i was able to present to you, on 13 april 2011, the single market act, with the ambition of adding this horizon of growth and confidence beyond the consolidation of public finances, to rebuild the foundations of growth from a better functioning of the single market. we worked well together. the commission has finally produced the 12 priority measures of the single market act, which are now in the legislative pipeline and, for one of them, standardisation, agreement has just been reached between parliament and the council. i hope that in a few days' time we will have an agreement on a second of the 12 key measures on the european patent that european companies have been waiting for for thirty years. what more do we need to do, ladies and gentlemen, since we are not yet in that growth spurt? firstly, to make the decisions we have already taken in the internal market work properly, what i shall call the 'quick wins', new growth in services. i will not go into detail about the importance of the service economy in our european continent, but they still represent 65% of gdp, 70% of total employment. they have created almost 11 million jobs over the last decade or so. if the results of the transposition of the services directive are positive, then the importance of this text for the day-to-day functioning of our internal market requires going further. we in the commission believe that we could see between +0.8% and +2.6% growth in the internal market if the services directive were to achieve its full potential. and that is precisely the purpose of the partnership for new growth in services which the commission adopted a few days ago. first, more ambitious implementation of this directive, peer review, through country recommendations in the context of the european semester you have just mentioned and a stricter and more voluntary policy on infringements with the objective of zero tolerance for clear breaches of this directive on services, and then improvement of a tool you, like myself, are keen on, which is the one-stop shops. this is the first act of this partnership. secondly, the better functioning of the single market for services on the ground. how did you do that? by optimising synergies between the different internal market instruments: directives on services, on vocational qualifications or on electronic commerce. we have conducted 'performance tests', as i have already told you, to check how, in three sectors - construction, business services, which are hiring at the moment, and tourism - the free provision of services could better interact with professional mobility, insurance benefits, e-commerce opportunities. finally, we want to ensure the benefits of the directive for consumers by tackling discrimination against recipients of services on the grounds of their nationality and/or place of residence. i believe that we must be more ambitious than the services directive and the services economy. this is also the subject of the very operational text adopted by the commission a few days ago on the governance of the internal market. this is not a technocratic concern. you can count on me. legislation which is not applied is not only useless, it is sometimes bad for the functioning of the internal market. it undermines the principle of competition within the union, it creates imbalances between countries and it also deprives citizens of their rights. that is why we want to ensure that all the single market texts are properly implemented. this is a subject on which you have worked a lot, sandra kalniete, mr busuttil, mrs bastos, in particular. the commission has therefore just adopted this communication for new and better governance, calling on the member states, parliament, the council, the commission and our own services to commit to greater efficiency. we will be working on three lines: first, targeted action in sectors with high growth potential, of course the services and financial services i mentioned earlier, but also the network industries: transport, energy, the digital market. for each of these sectors, we have identified the key legislative measures on which the commission, together with the member states, is committed to redouble its efforts for good, prompt and correct implementation, for example, enhanced assistance for transposition and the use of mutual evaluations. in these areas we want to see rapid results and we will apply the principle of zero tolerance for delays in the transposition of our legislation. if problems persist, we will then commit ourselves to dealing with such infringements as quickly as possible. secondly, to evaluate and monitor the extent of our efforts, on the basis of the european semester mechanism, which mr rehn mentioned. this half-year should not only be devoted to economic governance or budgetary surveillance, but i think it should also be devoted, in the same year, to cohesion and competitiveness. we will then measure the performance of the member states through benchmarks and naming and shaming, and where there are malfunctions, we will make complementary measures and recommendations on a country-by-country basis. the third and final point, mr president, is a single market for businesses and citizens. better legislation, better use of computer tools, the 'your europe' portal, better operation of solvit and, finally, encouragement of the single market centres in each member state. i am saying a few words to conclude on a subject which will be of great concern to us in the coming weeks - and i know that president malcolm harbour, whom i thank, is very keen on this - and this is the second stage of the single market act which we are preparing for the end of the summer, so that the 20th anniversary of this single market will not be nostalgic or melancholy, as i often say, but proactive. we will preserve the strengths of the original single market act, the competitive social market economy. all four words are important. they are well represented by the 12 growth levers we have chosen together. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. that is what we are going to be working on, ladies and gentlemen, by concentrating on the implementation of what we have already decided together and also on opening up the public debate, as we will do during the week for new growth with the single market, which we will be jointly promoting from 15 to 22 october.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i am pleased that this joint motion for a resolution by all the groups in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has succeeded in producing a single european parliament opinion on the forthcoming proposals for the single market act, part ii. i believe that the essential questions which will be the focus of our attention as the european parliament in the coming weeks when we consider the various legislative proposals relating to the single market act ii have all been brought together in this document in the necessary clarity and precision. i think the motion for a resolution also makes it clear that the single market is a part of europe that has been in existence for some time, but that it still has great potential and also great growth potential for the european economies - up to 4% over 10 years, according to the european commission - and that is why i think it is important that the european commission makes it clear that the time for talking about the implementation of legislation relevant to the single market is over and that now is the time for action. it is important that the european commission consistently and forcefully reminds all those member states - i think it is safe to say that it is almost all of them - of their obligations and, if these obligations are not respected, takes all the measures possible against them. the member states participate in the legislative process through the european council of ministers. there is therefore no excuse for not implementing internal market legislation in a correct and timely manner. that is why i was a little surprised when the president of the commission proposed this morning an interinstitutional agreement with which we should implement priority areas. i doubt that we need an additional agreement on the internal market. we need a european commission which will do what the member states have promised. mr president, i believe that this requires a horizontal strategy. the commission has already started with the first single market act. i believe that we need good and credible impact assessments, we need a focus on the priority areas and we need, mr president and commissioner, real monitoring of implementation in the context of improved single market governance.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. the question of the internal market has really deserved the attention we are giving it at the moment, particularly on the 20th anniversary of this internal market. it is one of the great achievements that we can move freely within the european union, that we can buy goods throughout europe, that we have a high level of product safety, that we have a citizens' union here too. and it's a beautiful thing that we're working on it. that is why it is important, mr barnier, that you continue on the path you have started, that you work with us to ensure that the positive aspects of this single market are also brought closer to the citizens, that they realise what they have gained from this european single market. this is something that is missing, something that the citizens do not notice, because we talk too much about the problems and not about what the achievements of the european union are. that is why it is important that we focus more on what we have enshrined in article 3 of the lisbon treaty, namely that we want and need a social market economy - and i emphasize the concept of social - so that workers, consumers and consumers can find their way back to europe. i also welcome what my colleague louis grech has outlined in his report, namely the holistic approach we need to take in order to really see the single market as a whole concept and not as a series of small, disconnected actions running side by side, but that it really has a european philosophy attached to it. working together on this is a really important thing, and we should continue to do so. the single market is a good thing, but we must not forget that it must be designed for the benefit of the citizens and not just for the benefit of companies or the financial world.
blue-card question. – mr president, i would like to ask mr helmer whether he is aware that commissioner verheugen has not been a commissioner in the commission for three years now and, secondly, whether he has followed the work of the stoiber high-level group, which has reduced the bureaucratic burden in the european union by 25 %?
the commission has already done so. twenty years of the single market is indeed an occasion to look back on this record of success. it is as mrs gebhardt said: the single market has brought the european idea, the european philosophy, to the fore, there is no doubt about that. the internal market is, of course, a success in the external world. but if we look at the european single market, we find that some have benefited more, others less. the balance sheet for germany is very, very good. the credit institution for reconstruction has calculated that the internal market effect for germany alone amounts to eur 30 billion per year in conjunction with the euro. on the other hand, we see that productivity is declining in the periphery. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. if we do not succeed in doing this, if everyone does not see the benefits of the single market, then in the long term the single market will lose credibility and legitimacy.
a writer. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank the commission, and in particular commissioner barnier, for the simple reason that the experience of the last legislature, before 2009, was that, apart from a brief moment of awakening when the proposal from the european private sector came forward, commissioner barnier's predecessor, commissioner mcgreevy, had actually let company law fall asleep, and we have not made any progress in these five years on this important issue, which is also important for the internal market. that has changed, thank god, fundamentally. there are now a number of consultation documents from the european commission, a group of experts who have dealt with the question of the further development of company law, and we now have a very topical consultation, which we are of course also dealing with as a parliament. the legal affairs committee has decided that we do not want to do this in the form of a report, simply because a report requires additional time and is of course a little more detailed. we have chosen the oral question to the commission to discuss this matter with the commission, with mr barnier, and at the same time to make clear in a subsequent resolution our position as a parliament on what is to happen now. it is necessary, as we did some ten years ago, to develop a new action plan for european company law for a number of reasons. there are gaps in european company law, real gaps, which are the reason why the internal market has not been established. i would like to give an example of the absence of the 14th directive on relocation, which i think is a very typical example of such a gap. in its own-initiative legislative reports, parliament has twice called for concrete proposals from the european commission to this end. there is also the panel of experts which the european commission itself has appointed, and which has also expressed the same opinion. and it is simply one of the fundamental freedoms of the internal market that a company must be able to move within the internal market with regard to its registered office. this is not possible today or only under extremely difficult conditions. in this context, however, i must also criticise the fact that the commission's previous opinion on the 14th directive is far below parliament's expectations and, in our opinion, does not meet the standard of a qualified response to a legislative initiative. but we are optimistic that in the course of further work, when it comes to the action plan, this proposal will hopefully be reflected in the action plan. another important point in company law is the question of the further development of company law with the aim of reducing burdens on enterprises. we have already had very specific proposals from the commission on the table, for example on accounting. but there is still more to be done and more to be clarified in the course of the consultations. we are also awaiting further proposals from the commission. i would also ask the commission to revive the subject of european private society, which is currently being debated in the council. if there are individual member states - i can say this as my own opinion - in the eu which are not able to break the deadlock and take europe forward on their own, due to a lack of willpower, then, as with other projects - such as patent or family law - we must also think about using the instrument of enhanced cooperation, so that at least all other europeans have the opportunity to benefit from this opportunity. i would ask the commission to give this matter more thought. another open problem is the question of the applicable law, i.e. a kind of rome regulation for crossborder problems in company law. i also think that this question needs further study and discussion and would ask the commission to do so. insolvency law is closely linked to this. but it is announced that we will receive a specific proposal from the european commission in the near future. you see, there's a tremendous amount of work to be done in corporate law. i am grateful to commissioner barnier for taking the initiative here and for the fact that it is clear that we will receive significant proposals in the second half of this parliamentary term which can then also represent progress in the design of the internal market. parliament supports this in principle and in approach. the details will of course have to be discussed, and we shall certainly do so. but first of all, we would like to thank the commission. we would naturally be glad if the commission would now actually take up our initiatives and turn them into concrete proposals.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i too, as a liberal, welcome the commission's consultation on the future of european company law. this is a key element for a functioning internal market. there are problems in particular with the mobility of our companies - the pending 14th directive on the transnational transfer of the registered office of a company without new creation. the commission is hesitant to present a draft law because the member states cannot agree on a common line and therefore face difficult negotiations. the same applies to the cross-border exercise of shareholder rights, which is still difficult to achieve and requires a harmonised framework. the european private sector is also facing problems, with member states also blocking the way, unable to agree on the need for crossborder participation, the level of share capital and the participation of employees. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the financial controls. in general, the idea of making the flow of payments from the raw materials industry to developing countries transparent is welcome. but legally, this topic wouldn't have been there. if we want to help fight corruption, eu accounting law is not the place to do it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in the light of the economic problems, crisis and challenges facing european companies and their employees, creditors and also other shareholders and stakeholders, eu company law needs to focus on a sustainable, long-term and forward-looking business model. i therefore appeal to you to pursue the objectives of a social europe. the commission has also proposed that the member states should take measures to ensure that the social partners are involved in the decision-making process. and involve the social partners in your initiatives. this is because companies have a social responsibility towards society and towards their contribution to growth and employment. in all your proposals you must ensure that the existing rules on participation cannot be circumvented or abolished. we need the highest possible standards in european companies and the involvement of all those involved in business decisions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the ongoing crisis has led to a significant increase in unemployment in the eu. at the same time, the member states are drifting further apart. what is the master plan for more jobs? regions need tailor-made solutions. there is broad agreement across europe on the approaches to be taken: support for smes, flexicurity, green jobs, recognition of professional qualifications, effective use of regional funds, the cohesion fund and the esf. it is about more mobility to create new jobs, but also about securing stable jobs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals. precarious jobs and dumping wages must be prevented in favour of fair pay. the agreements on the minimum wage are in the hands of the collective partners. let's not let the youth down! in the report on generational justice i called for a european youth guarantee. after four months of unemployment, we need apprenticeships, additional training and jobs. the european investment pact is designed for all generations, but it must not be financed by new debt, for example to undermine the fiscal pact. sustainable growth can only be achieved on the basis of reforms in the member states and balanced budgets. the growth in employment which we want and desire is not just a wish, it is a reality!
mr president, commissioner, i very much appreciate your proposal on productivity-oriented wage policy. but you have been unfavourable to mrs merkel on the minimum wage, and i do not believe you on the question of job creation in the health sector. how can new work be created there when the commission has already forced southern and eastern member states to reduce their hospital capacity by up to half? how are we to create jobs in health care if the commission forces some member states to cut health spending even further in the new country-specific recommendations for the european semester? i fear that this point in this plan is mere announcement policy, not a real initiative for new work. on the contrary, the lack of medicines and cures is not limited to greece because of austerity measures. i think that those who are constantly putting up new life-support measures for banks must now put up a life-support measure for people, especially for the provision of health care in crisis countries.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i welcome the fact that you have included the european parliament's report on green jobs in the employment pact. you predict in your documents eight million jobs by 2020. yes, that would be possible! the commission must, however, set the industrial policy framework as a long-term framework. in concrete terms, this means that if there is no ambitious energy efficiency directive, there is no need for construction workers and other workers to insulate buildings. that means that you must work with your colleagues to put this industrial policy framework in place. otherwise, i'll tell you that, it's an unfulfilled prediction you made. and we cannot afford that in this european union, because the credibility of this union depends on it.
in writing. i expect the eu commission to finally learn the right lessons from the crisis. there are good approaches, but there is no commitment. i welcome proposals such as the support for business start-ups, the overdue consultation paper on the quality framework for traineeships or the youth initiative to give young people a career perspective. but well-meaning proposals are not reducing youth unemployment. 'good work' and strong participation must remain at the heart of european policy. i reject the idea that the 'uniform employment contract' is a new attempt to abolish the protection against dismissal. i am also very critical of a new tripartite committee on wage monitoring at european level. interventions in wage-setting are excluded by the eu treaty. and it has to stay that way. the socialist group, together with the trade unions, warns against using the crisis to undermine the autonomy of the social partners.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. seveso, enschede, toulouse, these cities are the sites of very serious accidents which have not only caused environmental disasters but also caused deaths and destruction of private property. we must therefore do everything we can to reduce the risks, but also the likelihood, of such accidents happening again. how do you do that? firstly, we must allow for inspections outside the series, and this cannot be just a routine matter. the people who live near such industrial plants must be very well informed about what is going on there, what is happening there. in case of emergency, information must be provided quickly. this is very important, because it can save lives. i think the council has done itself no favors here. i am sorry to say that the council has not been able to reach a decision on this matter. but apparently there are other things more important. i think it would have been good for the council to explain why this legislation has been watered down. i wish i had at this point. but strong legislation at this point also builds trust. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary infrastructure projects. there's always a lot of reservations in the population. strong legislation at this point, as we have done here, creates trust, and that can only be done with the greatest possible transparency. and it means that authorities are more networked, they cooperate better, they communicate more, and there is absolutely no routine in dealing with such large, dangerous installations. this can't happen!
question for the commissioner: a blue card because we have now heard a lot of critical voices. i know that mr seeber has handled the procedure in parliament very well, having taken over from mr áder. the question is: are we now concluding this at first reading, as much as 65% of our environmental legislation? my question to the rapporteur is: if the council had also been in favour of a blockade position, if we had taken it to the second reading, could we not perhaps have achieved more transparency? this is a matter of principle. i know, dear richard, you've taken over. but i would like to hear the opinion of the current rapporteur.
question for the commissioner: i have a question for mrs. girling. she just mentioned that the gluten intolerance regulations are not helping. i think it is very important to protect these people, because the people who suffer from this intolerance need this strict diet. if we do not incorporate them into the high standard of protection of this regulation, but only have them in the food labelling, then that standard of protection is not guaranteed. i would therefore like to make a strong plea for this and ask why she does not think that this is the case.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i thank frédérique ries for her work on this report, but also the shadow rapporteurs, and especially esther de lange, who has done a very good job of this for our group. we have reached a good consensus in the committee on most of the questions. i would also like to express my appreciation for the compromise on the special food for celiac patients. we have had a long debate in the epp group and we already believe that it is important to continue to offer special foods here, since it is not just a matter of these foods being gluten-free - this can be ensured by the labelling regulation - but there must also be a balance in other respects. if i eat only sweets all day, i am on a gluten-free diet, but i have not been eating healthily. that's why we have to take that into account. we especially care for infants and young children. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the pesticides are not used in the food industry. it was the european parliament - i was involved in the 1990s - that pushed for harmonisation at the highest possible level. we have basically mandated that you only allow organic in baby food, because the limit of detection is the limit of what we allow. if the threshold is lowered, the commission can make a new proposal. i myself have worked in a children's clinic, and in all these matters, what the medical professionals and the medical societies say is always important to me. they advised us to have a very, very strict regulation at the time. we've got them. but now you are saying that what mrs ries and others in the committee have proposed, what we have agreed on, is also pragmatic and that there is no need to go beyond that. i ask the commission to monitor this. if we have new detection methods, we can look into that. but otherwise, it is a balanced proposal, and we should not give the impression that some people here are better than others at protecting children.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the rapporteur very warmly. we have adopted this report in the committee on the environment by a large majority, 62 votes to none and no abstentions. this shows that we are actually very close to each other, including in terms of compromise. the first priority in this legislative process must of course be a high level of protection, a high level of consumer protection, especially for the youngest members of our society, for vulnerable children. as far as gluten intolerance is concerned, this is a problem, especially in kindergartens. if you look around -- i have two children that age -- what are the prevalent allergies and intolerances there, i think we're right there. we should then discuss this with each other, with the council and the commission, at the second reading. i think we will then also come to a good result.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have very high standards for our food, or rather for the means of life. this is particularly true of the food of our youngest, of baby food. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the precautionary principle is that we do not want to take any recognisable risks. manufacturers are responsible for their products by their name, and any misuse is punished directly by the consumer through the market. however, each limit must also be measurable. we have put in place a strict european regulation on plant protection, which came into force last summer. the european regulations on pesticide residues are at the limit of detection and are many times lower than the level that can cause harm. no test method in the world can determine what a plant has been treated with during growth when there is no residue in the finished fruit. the european parliament has firmly established the precautionary principle and has placed the most vulnerable groups - especially infants and young children - under very special protection. we can build on that. we have been fighting in committee over the correct wording. i hope that we will also live up to our responsibilities in the plenary. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs ries, and also our shadow rapporteur, mrs esther de lange, for their excellent work. we also have to accept that children from the age of one can be fed healthily and adequately at the family table. we should also take this back.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the average consumer has a wide choice of products in the supermarket and can then consume them. the provisions of the food labelling regulation are sufficient. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not contaminated by the pesticides used in the manufacture of foodstuffs. as the mother of a one-year-old daughter who has breastfed for seven months, i am very pleased that milk substitutes can no longer be advertised with embellishing images, so as not to suggest that this might even be better than breastfeeding. i also think it's good that the growth milk is being reviewed, because i don't use that milk either. it tastes sweet and actually lures the child into drinking only this milk in the future rather than conventional milk. people who are gluten intolerant need a special diet, or they will develop serious complications such as colon cancer. that's why i think it's important that the high standard of protection is maintained here. the only way to do this is to incorporate this gluten intolerance into the regulation. for example, there are rules that require that the food for these patients must provide the same amount of vitamins and minerals as the food they are replacing. this standard of protection must be maintained!
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr stevenson, and the committee on fisheries for their work on this proposal. with this proposal, we are aligning the management plan for west of scotland herring to the lisbon treaty. as with previous management plans, we again face the risk of an institutional disagreement between parliament and the council. i welcome the fact that parliament is fully exercising its new rights under the treaty. as my colleague, commissioner damanaki, has said before, the commission fully shares parliament’s position that multiannual management plans should be adopted under the ordinary legislative proposal. i would also like to thank parliament for supporting the commission’s empowerment to adjust parameters in the management plan in case science evolves. this will help ensure that the management plan is adaptive and reflects at all times the best scientific information available. i would like to refer to some specific amendments. first, regarding the definition of the stock and the area covered by the plan, the rapporteur’s proposed amendment is acceptable. second, regarding the duration of the empowerment for the commission, the proposal of a three-year renewable empowerment period is acceptable. however, the management plan foresees a four-year cycle for its review and evaluation. therefore, it might be useful if the two cycles coincided. finally, i would like to react to the proposed amendment whereby the commission, before adopting delegated acts, would have the obligation to consult the scientific, technical, and economic committee on fisheries and the north-western waters regional advisory council. under the common understanding on delegated acts, agreed by parliament, council and commission in may last year, the commission must ‘carry out appropriate consultations during its preparatory work, including at expert level’ before adopting delegated acts. the proposed amendment would go beyond this obligation and would limit the commission’s discretion to seek the best advice in each case. therefore, we are unfortunately not in a position to support this amendment. i would again like to thank the rapporteur and the committee on fisheries for their work and look forward to the discussion on this subject.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr stevenson, very much for his report, which of course also deals with the central situation of fisheries policy in europe and which also uses the example of the herring stock west of scotland. we are currently discussing how we want to work more effectively in the common fisheries policy from 2014 to 2020. it is also clear that where we have this stock in the atlantic, we can exploit it with appropriate quotas and, of course, achieve the highest possible sustainable yield. we are doing everything we can to ensure that our fish stocks will continue to be the basis of our fisheries' livelihoods and economy in the future. we're going to discuss throwbacks. should we not also make more efficient use of the resources that the sea provides us with? we are discussing transferable fishing rights. what happens to small businesses that are ultimately in the situation, do i give up because i want to retire, or do i have a successor with me? we are also in a situation where we want to promote regional fisheries and regionalization with appropriate management plans, where everything is not regulated centrally, but where we take a clear position and say: it is not just science that has the power to do this, but we also want to work with the experience of the professional and ground fishermen in the rac. mr stevenson has also worked out that very well. if we have a precise definition of the herring stock, and if we take into account that it is also subject to migration, then we have achieved a good result. i would like to thank all those involved.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. since the decision to withdraw from the milk quota was taken, you, commissioner, have been constantly monitored, and we have seen how you behave, what you are actively doing to make a meaningful contribution to the withdrawal. can we really see anything there? we have just had a year of regional overproduction, an increase in world production - no wonder if there was previously a shortage of supply on the market, which led to higher prices. in addition, operating costs have increased by about 20% over the last two years, mainly due to direct and indirect increases in energy costs. the market reacted normally to the increased supply and came under pressure. prices fell accordingly. the market is now stabilising again as farmers are showing market capacity and are cutting their production more than is usual seasonally. the price reductions complained of have led to an increase in demand on the market. the fall in the euro rate is helping to boost sales capacity on the global market, and european dairy products are competitive. in the case of cheese, the stocks have been depleted so much that more milk is now needed for cheese production. so, a normal market cycle. the commission is not in a position to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. is it just to seize the eu's own resources? or is it not time to finally move the supertax from the national level of accounting to the european level?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i think the commission, like mrs reimers, suffers from a certain loss of reality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. worldwide, we have an increase in production, in the us 3.5%, in new zealand 10%, in europe 3%, with stagnating sales. i wonder how one can speak of seasonal multiples. we have a crisis in the making, and it will not occur until prices have reached the 20 cent level, that is to say, the intervention level. we must act now, because the last crisis - everyone must know this - cost us 500 million euros in export subsidies and direct aid to farmers. we are not going to put the money back in if we run into the same situation. i don't think that's possible at all. i therefore ask: what is the commission's responsibility? if she still claims that the quota has not been met and that there is therefore no possibility or need to change the rules, then i can only wonder. the increase in the quota has been part of the problem of bringing more quantities to market. the fact that we still have no answer for 2015 and what is to happen after that is a sign of poverty for both the commission and the council, because the milk producers are being left to their own devices. the milk package we have adopted is in danger of failing completely, because until we have strengthened the producers, there are only a few producers left. and on the other hand, the dairies and the retail trade are becoming more concentrated, which means that the chances of the dairy farmers to do something on the market for their price are becoming less and less. the question therefore is: why is the commission not reacting and now submitting its report on milk six months earlier? why don't we talk about market rules after 2015? the commission still has to answer that question. we say quite clearly: markets need rules, especially the milk market! and as long as you ignore that in the debate, you are deliberately heading towards a new milk crisis.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner dalli, i am glad you are here because i know that you are a commissioner who is always open to hearing our concerns. it is good that you are aware of the problems of the dairy farmers. the milk quota is a matter of disagreement, even in my group. i often agree with my colleague from luxembourg, astrid lulling, but on this point i disagree. we - and i mean the nine csu members of the previous parliamentary term - voted together against an increase in quotas back in 2008. the honourable commissioner mariann fischer boel of the time understood 'soft landing' to mean an increase in quotas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. it's a very simple formula. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quota is not exceeded. i am against lowering the super levy now or increasing the quota further, because there must also be contractual security for the dairy farmers. the quota expires on 31 march 2015, and until then we need contract security. we need other systems, which are important, commissioner: fixed payment deadlines, net net prices and binding delivery quantities. these are the important points we must address in order to prepare for the quota-free market.
question for the commissioner: i have just one quick question: are you aware that in 2008, when the council discussed the issue of the extension of the quota, portugal also voted in favour of that extension and that only two countries opposed the extension of the quota, namely the federal republic of germany and austria? france abstained from voting. twenty-four countries, including portugal, voted in favour of the expansion of quotas and thus of a reduction in the quota system.
question for the commissioner: i have a question for my colleague, mrs mcguinness. we used the milk quota as a means of controlling quantity. it is a matter of urgency that the commission should be given the opportunity to present a report on the situation in the milk sector. and that the policy has always been too cowardly and allowed overproduction even with the quota, with the result that milk prices have fallen? we are also opposed to the expansion of the milk quota beyond the requirements because this would, of course, lead to a drop in milk prices. has not the policy also failed in some respects with regard to the quota?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have three comments to make. first of all , let 's be honest . the milk quota as a price stabilisation instrument has failed. it was not the farmers' fault, it was the policy that always allowed more milk quotas to be spent than the market could bear. this is why germany, for example, was opposed to the last-minute extension of the milk quota, even though demand has not increased. the price drop is the logical consequence. secondly, my concern is how can we support the entrepreneurial orientation of our dairy farmers? this includes market observation, forward-looking market decisions and joint, powerful alliances. we must also take into account what is normal for pig farming or for grain farming. and thirdly, i simply ask that we support milk production not only in the less-favoured areas, not only in the mining areas, but also in the grassland areas: the second pillar will not meet the requirements here because all farms fail here on the extensification reserve, i.e. we cannot support dairy farms from the second pillar because they have too many livestock per hectare. we must also make the necessary changes in the agricultural reform.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you very much, i have signed up because we have a little time left. i would like to say to all those in my group and in other groups who speak for this absolutely free milk market that we must abolish the historical payment per hectare from 2015 onwards. it is not possible that there are milk producers who receive 100 euros per hectare in latvia and in other countries more than 1 000 euros because of historical premiums. that's not a level playing field. a milk producer who receives compensation of eur 1 000 per hectare can sell his milk cheaper and thereby disrupt the market. this can't be happening. then, from 2015, we will have to pay the same premium per hectare in the first pillar for all milk producers. and we're going to have some interesting discussions. the second point is that we must strengthen the position of producers and processors vis-à-vis trade. i can fully support that. it is not possible that the milk producers and processors here have to pay premiums, have to pay listing discounts, that the payments are extended more and more to now up to 100 days, that cannot be. here, commissioner dalli, we must intervene to strengthen the producers and the milk producers as a whole. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. thank you very much, mr bové, for this question. i am the chairman of a large cooperative dairy which markets milk for 7 000 dairy farmers, and the milk farmers are the only ones in charge, i.e. the board and the supervisory board are in fact made up of farmers. unfortunately, we don't have the market power to enforce our price against these wholesale chains. what particularly bothers us, and what then leads to lower prices, are the unfair methods. there are no net-net prices. you have to give discounts at the end of the year. in between, listing fees are charged. so you can't compare the prices that trade pays at all because they're undermined by these systems. the commission's task would be to find clean systems to make the whole thing more public, to make the whole thing more understandable. we'd have more leverage. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i think the problem right now is not that we don't have enough milk, we have too much. the problem is that there are farmers who supply far more than their quota allows. the concern of astrid lulling and some other colleagues is that the supertax should be abolished or reduced. and i don't agree with that. we have the scheme until 2015, and there are dairy farmers who have spent money in recent months to buy quotas. we'd be punishing them if we undermined the whole system now. we have to give the contract security. and the security of the contract is that the situation will remain as it is until 2015, that is, that the quota will at least maintain its effect - as long as it still has one. but we have to think about market measures, what we do after 2015. and i say, my cooperative of the 7,000 dairy farmers, we are preparing well for this day, and i also told the dairy farmers that we have to prepare well for this day, april 1, 2015.
written declaration 0011/2012 on the launch of a european heart failure awareness week, submitted by members antigoni papadopoulou, joão ferreira, jim higgins, antonyia parvanova and raül romeva i rueda, has received the signatures of the majority of members of parliament and is therefore forwarded to the addressees in accordance with rule 123 (3) and (4) of the rules of procedure and published as the adopted text of this sitting (p7_ta-prov(2012) 0266); the names of the signatories shall be recorded in the minutes of that meeting.
ladies and gentlemen, i have two important announcements to make. may i have your attention, please? i told you on tuesday about the pending trial of the sakharov prize winner, mrs mahfouz, who was charged in cairo. you will remember that i said that we, as the european parliament, had sent an address of solidarity to cairo in the process for this young woman. i would like to inform you that the proceedings took place yesterday, that mrs mahfouz has been acquitted and that mrs mahfouz has specifically asked me to tell you that she considered the pressure exerted by the european parliament to be of exceptional help in this procedure. (applause from the centre) i must therefore, ladies and gentlemen, inform you of a decision of the conference of presidents which was adopted a few minutes ago. the conference of presidents, that is to say the chairmen of the political groups in this house, chaired by the president, has this morning, in a very detailed and intensive debate, consulted the legal service of the european parliament, dealt in depth with the proceedings of the european council last week and the unilateral decision of the european council, in the coelho report, that is to say the report on evaluation and monitoring in the schengen mechanism, to change the legal basis of article 77 of the treaty on european union, which provides for the co-decision procedure of parliament, to article 70, which provides exclusively for intergovernmental procedures, that is to say a decision of the governments in the form of the european council. in response to this extraordinary process of unilateral change of the legal basis, the conference of presidents decided to suspend cooperation with the home affairs and justice council until the council had agreed a common approach with the european parliament on the schengen issue. these are the reports on the amendment of the schengen borders code and the schengen implementing convention this is the papanikolaou report the report on the response to attacks on information systems this is the report by mrs hohlmeier the report on the european investigation order the report under the trilogue procedure the report on the internal security aspects of the 2013 budget and the report on the pnr agreement. the conference of presidents decided not to pursue these five reports, not to take any further decisions and not to negotiate with the council until an agreement had been reached on the schengen matter. i want you to know that. (applause from the centre) i must add, in fairness, that mr callanan voted against it for his group, all the other groups voted for it. (applause from the centre) i have to tell you, it's part of the fairness of it, that we're adding this. i would like to make a personal statement: i have been a member of this house for 18 years now, and i have never seen such approval of a procedure in this house. i'll add that right away. mr speroni abstained in favour of the epp group. i must also inform you that some reports already adopted by the committee on the internal affairs, which were originally scheduled for the july plenary session, will not be on the agenda. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the second is the report by mrs renate weber, the specific report on the extension of the reintroduction of border controls and the extension of the periods of control for the reintroduction of border controls. both reports will not be on the agenda in july and have been dropped by the conference of presidents.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
i now come to the áder report. let me say this about the áder report: the rapporteur, mr áder, - which may also be of interest to our listeners in the gallery - is no longer here. we shall vote on his report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the next item is the explanations of vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament has two dimensions. one is the content. the content dimension is not to be contested. of course, it is also important to monitor the herring stock and to take appropriate measures in case of overfishing. but the other dimension is just as important, and that is why i have given my full support to this committee report. it is again a question of when we are working with delegated acts and when we are opening the ordinary legislative procedure. i expressly support the rapporteur's view that the delegation of powers to the commission must also be limited in time, because it is ultimately a question of where the political power actually lies, in parliament or in the commission. i still believe that parliament should not be giving rights to the commission lightly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the accident which took place in seveso, which claimed many lives, showed at the time how important it is to take preventive measures in the event of industrial accidents: firstly, to prevent such things from happening, and secondly, to ensure that appropriate safety measures are in place when they do happen. that is why these directives are named after seveso. we had seveso i, seveso ii, and now we have seveso iii. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to take measures to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised. the more stringent the substances are, the more stringent the operator's multi-stage approach to the regulations should be. it is a matter of detailed plans for the production facilities, of drawing up plans for toxic substances, of drawing up evacuation plans and of training workers. the current directive covers some 10 000 establishments. the number alone shows the importance. that is why i have given my full support to this report.
i thank you very much, mr hannan. we hear the words, even if they weren't spoken on the subject. we have other formats for that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu commission presented a proposal in june 2011 to revise the dietary legislation, which would now only include specific rules for infant and young child nutrition and food for special medical purposes. what sounds very good from a distance - and i am the last person to object to simplification - is of course quite difficult in practice. there are different people who have to follow certain diets, who simply need certain information. so i'm really grateful to our health committee for resolving this conflict. on the one hand we do not want misleading advertising, on the other hand we need sufficient information. thirdly, of course, there is no need for excessive information. and again, thank you to the health committee, it has been passed, and it is really a story that can then be used in practice. the principle is that we can of course also check whether the report is going in the right direction. i thank you again, and i was able to agree to the report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against this resolution because i consider it a regrettable provocation against europe's one-china policy. the human rights cause has been aided and abetted. the european parliament has been led to follow a small tibetan separatist lobby whose aim is to disrupt european-chinese relations.
in writing. − i welcome the proposed adaptation of the seveso ii directive, which is necessary because of the changes to the eu system for classifying dangerous chemicals. we will continue to maintain our high european standards and make no concessions in the protection of public health. the commission will continue to monitor the situation in the member states and to monitor the implementation of the community's environmental legislation. at the same time, we must ensure that we reduce the administrative burden on businesses wherever possible and create a level playing field in the member states by improving the implementation and enforceability of the directive. i think it is particularly important to provide the public with all the necessary information that may be relevant in the event of a major accident. however, for reasons of security and fair competition, it is also necessary to ensure that highly sensitive data remain confidential. the agreement reached in the trilogue is a success from the parliament's point of view. changes to the list of hazardous substances concerned have the potential to have major safety and economic implications. the commission cannot therefore decide on this alone. parliament, as the representative of the european people, must take part in the decision-making process when it comes to protecting the health of citizens.
in writing. - i wholeheartedly support this resolution. i too believe that our citizens must have the opportunity to participate in the creation of eu legislation. the commission conducts consultations to seek the views of stakeholders and eu citizens on draft legislation. however, these are often only available in english. for example, small craft enterprises or voluntary institutions do not have the time or money to hire translators. i think it is very important that they too understand the commission's inquiries and can express their views in their own language. the commission has already published a report on the implementation of the new rules on the european union's external borders. but if i do not understand what is being asked or proposed, or if i understand it only with great difficulty, then it does not help me. of course, the associations in brussels are trying to do this for their clients. but this cannot replace the direct contact with the citizens which we so badly need, so that the laws are not made in an ivory tower at the moment. of course, it costs something to make the path to eu legislation transparent and understandable, alongside the finished eu legislation. better citizen participation should be worth it.
the explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 1.40 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the human rights and security situation in the sahel (2012/2680 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not we have heard from many people that the sahel is really a very special problem area in africa. people are living in inhuman conditions and we cannot just accept that. we have to do something about it. what's happening is that there's a spiral going on: they have water shortages, they can't raise livestock, there are refugee flows, there are terrorist attacks, there are unstable governments -- so there's really a security problem of a magnitude that we can't even imagine. it is true that eu citizens who have been victims of attacks are also affected. but it is not only that, it is above all the people who live there in great difficulty. we need to do something about this, especially for girls and women who are victims of violence and girls who are deprived of education. but in particular, it is really a herculean task for all the policy areas in the eu, for development policy as well as for security policy, because organized crime seems to be the most lucrative business there, and also for many other foreign policies. we need to move forward, and that's why we're here today talking about it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
question for the commissioner: mrs meissner, i like your holistic approach. so i have a question: we have together launched the roma policy here. could we not initiate something like a transnational tuareg policy? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i can give you a short answer. that would be really something to think about, because the thing is: i think when we talk about human rights abuses here, we sometimes feel very helpless, and because so many policies are on the way and it's not enough, the question is: what can you do extra? i think we should take up this idea and discuss it between the groups.
member of the commission. − mr president, the sahel region is facing a multilayered crisis. the takeover by rebel tuareg and islamist groups of the entire north of mali has resulted in about 150 000 internally displaced persons and a further 160 000 refugees in neighbouring countries. a humanitarian emergency has been added to an already complex situation. the sahel region already suffers from drought and chronic malnutrition. over 17 million people are now affected, with 8 million people in need of emergency assistance. the region’s refugees and displaced persons are among the most vulnerable. severe food and medical shortages could lead to many deaths, especially of women and children. the current lack of humanitarian access to the victims of the violence in northern mali, because of insecurity and attacks on humanitarian workers, is of great concern. the risk of violence spilling over into neighbouring countries, some of which are fragile, is alarmingly high. gao, kidal and timbuktu have recently experienced days of looting and chaos. there are reports of abductions and sexual violence by various armed groups. one of the groups, ansar dine, is allegedly arresting people suspected of robbery and looting, and imposing sharia-based punishments. these human rights violations must end. finding a political solution to the conflict in mali and preventing the contagion of the entire sahel region are high on our agenda. we are working closely with the united nations and our other partners in the international community. at last week’s meeting in abidjan of the support and follow-up group led by the african union, the eu pressed hard for a speedy institutional transition in the south. we also discussed how best to restore the authority of the malian state over the north. human rights, security and development cannot be separated. improving the security situation is integral to economic growth and the reduction of poverty in the sahel region. in recognition of the security challenges faced by the state in the region, the eu is preparing to launch a civilian mission in the framework of the csdp, to be deployed in niger by the end of summer 2012, to strengthen the planning and coordination of local security forces’ capacities. extension of the csdp activities to other countries in the region, in particular mauritania and mali, is under consideration. that is also why the high representative and the commission proposed already last year a new strategy for security and development in the sahel, which was welcomed by the council. the sahel strategy combines political and diplomatic action, development aid, security actions and projects aimed at preventing violent extremism. we are now more than one year into the implementation of the strategy in the region. many concrete actions have been taken. we are helping promote home-grown solutions to social, political and ethnic tensions, notably through employment creation for the marginalised groups. we work to assist the local communities, in particular those living in remote and isolated areas, by improving infrastructure and creating educational, economic and employment opportunities. in parallel, we are seeking to improve the capacities of sahel states to provide social services and development to the local populations. enhancing transparent and locally accountable governance is also an important part of the sahel strategy, which seeks to address the underlying political, economic, social and development challenges in the region. eu development cooperation with mali is still suspended, following the coup d’état in march this year. it will be resumed in line with progress towards the full restoration of constitutional order. however, we continue to provide humanitarian aid to those in need, wherever it is safe to do so. echo has recently mobilised eur 9 million to help internally displaced people and refugees. a total of eur 288 million has been allocated to tackle the consequences of the food crisis in the sahel. commissioner georgieva has demanded rapid progress to open the humanitarian space and allow supplies of food and medicines to reach those in need. the eu will continue to work in close cooperation with the countries of the sahel region, with civil society, and with regional and international bodies to promote human rights, security and development in an integrated and comprehensive approach. as soon as security conditions allow, we will resume the projects which have been suspended in the north of mali.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on cases of impunity in the philippines (2012/2681 (rsp)).
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. 72 private armies and a culture of impunity is an intolerable state of affairs. it is a disaster when states, even democratic states, operate with the death penalty. but private army killings are something that must be fought with all the strength. we recognize the efforts of the aquino government, which are clearly visible and are showing the first signs of success. but they still need to be massively strengthened, and in particular, witness protection programmes need to be intensified. because many of the private armies of god are unfortunately linked to positions in the military and intelligence services through corruption and crime, witness protection is a key tool to finally clean up the wrongdoings in the philippines and return this country step by step to the rule of law. it is a potentially rich and beautiful country and an important partner of the european union. and that is why the rule of law is an urgent necessity there.
member of the commission. − mr president, the issue of impunity, extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances are unfortunately long-term challenges in the philippines that have been widely acknowledged. this is why, for the european union, support for the reform of the justice sector and the fight against impunity in the area of extrajudicial killings, torture and enforced disappearances are key issues on the human rights agenda with the philippines. only two weeks ago, the eu, through its member states in the un human rights council, actively participated in the second universal periodic review of the philippines. extrajudicial killings, torture and the need for a functioning witness protection programme were among the main concerns raised in this second round of the peer-review process. i welcome the fact that on that occasion the government of the philippines presented its human rights agenda and notable progress since the last review in 2008. as the house will know, we have been encouraging the administration of president aquino to speed up the process of prosecution of the perpetrators of extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances, including those responsible for the maguindanao massacre, and to put in place a comprehensive and reliable set of measures to prevent these acts from reoccurring. there were many previous attempts to address this issue and the course now set by president aquino is in the right direction. we all welcome the commitment and the progress made by the aquino administration in addressing human rights, the culture of impunity and respect for the rule of law in the philippines. the ratification of the rome statute and of the optional protocol to the convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment is an excellent step forward. i warmly welcome it. however, there is a need to achieve more progress. the serious lack of trust in public offices is an endemic historical and structural political problem. therefore, we encourage president aquino not only to address corruption and fraud committed by the previous administration but also to fight impunity. we were encouraged by the requests of the government of the philippines for eu assistance. we responded with the justice support programme (epjust) 2009-2011, which provided technical assistance for strengthening capacity, particularly in the investigative and judicial areas. achievements of that epjust programme included a decrease in the number of extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances – from around 300 cases in 2006 down to three in 2011 – increased quality in the investigations of murder and abduction cases that have been filed, and an increased number of cases filed at the prosecutor’s office. let me assure you that the eu remains active in cooperating with the philippines on human rights issues and in particular in the justice sector to address impunity. we have recently approved a eur 10 million programme that will build on the work carried out through epjust and focus on strengthening the criminal justice system.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the situation of ethnic minorities in iran (2012/2682 ((rsp)).
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not iran is often perceived monolithically as a shiite entity. but iran is a multiethnic state, which also has a multi-religious order. it has christian minorities who are relatively well off, like a part of the christian armenians. others are being persecuted en masse, such as the assyrian or the aramaic christians. non-shiite muslims are suffering, baha'is are suffering in a special way. so it is our job to see iran in all its diversity and to ensure that religious minorities are protected and supported. unlike a previous speaker, i am of the opinion that it is useful to deal with iran on a regular basis. we have done this time and again with the seemingly monolithic eastern bloc. today we have a free central and eastern europe. and one day there will be a free iran of many peoples and many religious communities living together in peace, in the old iranian tradition, and partnering with us.
member of the commission. − mr president, as has been said, iran is a mosaic of ethnicities, with ethnic minorities accounting for up to at least 40 % of the country’s population. the main ethno-linguistic minority groups are azeris, kurds, balochs, arabs, turkmens, pashtuns, armenians, georgians, assyrians and jews. they are largely located in the periphery and far from the power base, tehran. despite constitutional guarantees of equality, persons belonging to minorities are subject to an array of discriminatory laws and practices. these include land and property confiscations, denial of state and para-statal employment, and restrictions on social, cultural, linguistic and religious freedoms resulting in human rights violations. common practices include imprisonment for conscience, unfair trial of political prisoners, corporal punishment and use of the death penalty, as well as systematic restrictions on movement and denial of certain civil rights. very often, ethnic minorities in iran do not get a fair share of the benefits of natural resources present in their region, for example the water of the lake urmia basin in the azerbaijan provinces, or oil revenue in the arab-populated province of ahwaz. the eu has raised these concerns at the level of the united nations and they are included in the general assembly resolution on human rights in iran, adopted on 20 november 2011. the united nations committee on the elimination of racial discrimination has also underlined discriminatory practices in that country. the eu does not take a selective approach to this question. the eu acts on the basis of its principled position and it has a keen interest in the preservation and protection of the rights of persons belonging to minorities across the world. iran remains a case of grave concern. as in other countries, we are constantly monitoring all examples of repression and discrimination based on sex, thought, conscience, religious belief or ethnic identity. in recent council conclusions, the eu has deplored the widespread repression of iranian citizens, including persons belonging to ethnic and religious minorities. we have used, and are using, all the available tools to raise awareness and call on iran to respect principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination. this is no different from the way we act in other cases. the vice-president/high representative personally, and the eu, have issued statements and declarations on ethnic and religious intolerance in iran and have undertaken démarches on individual cases. for example, in june 2011, the eu carried out a démarche in tehran on the death sentence on four iranians of kurdish origin. the eu is deeply concerned at the discrimination and massive oppression of the rights of religious minorities. vice-president/high representative ashton has issued a large number of statements on the precarious situation of the baha’i minority. while the eu remains open to discussing human rights issues with iran, including the status of persons belonging to minorities, it has decided on targeted restrictive measures against individuals deemed to bear direct or indirect responsibility for repression. some 78 individuals are now on the eu human rights sanctions list for violations in iran.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately afterwards.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
paragraph 7 deals with the discrimination and harassment of non-shiite muslims, before we come to the baha'is. we want to extend this to include christians, assyrians and other religious minorities. therefore, we propose the following wording: persecution and harassment of religious minorities such as non-shiite muslims, assyrians and other christian groups,and then the bahai. this is our oral amendment, to include specifically the assyrians and the christians and other minorities.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.40 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 14 june 2012.
the minutes of 14 june 2012 were circulated. is there any objection?
mrs alfano, this will be recorded in the minutes. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
on 22 june 2012, the congress of the republic of paraguay removed directly elected president fernando lugo from office. mercosur and unasur, the sister organizations of the european union and the european parliament, then suspended paraguay's membership and declared that they did not recognise the new government of mr franco. a commission of the organization of american states has been in paraguay since yesterday to investigate the causes of the conflict. the european parliament is concerned about the developments in paraguay. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting of 27 june 2012 in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: tuesday the epp group and the s&d group have asked for the joint debate on the european patent to be postponed until a later part-session.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i want to briefly explain the reason for the request for a delay. as you know, we have already had several rounds of negotiations with the council on the unitary patent some time ago and reached a common conclusion at the end of november last year. the package consists of three components: the patent regulation itself under the codecision procedure, the implementing regulation under the consultation procedure and a third area which is an intergovernmental agreement. we reached a consensus and on 2 december last year the chairman of the legal affairs committee, mr klaus-heiner lehne, received a letter from the presidency of the council with the negotiated text and an accompanying letter stating that the council is committed to adopting exactly this text if parliament adopts exactly what we have negotiated and agreed. the council has been at a standstill for seven months because it has not been able to reach a consensus on another question, namely the question of the seat of the central chamber of the patent court, which is not within our competence and which is why we have not intervened. there were three people interested. the council then decided last week, in its wisdom - as we all know - that all three interested parties should be involved. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i would like to say that the commission is not involved in this. the problem is that it has been agreed that parliament's powers will be extended and that the regulation itself will have to be deleted, namely three key articles. the coreper will meet at 9 a.m. tomorrow to formalize what the heads of state or government have agreed. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. this is a glaring break, and i believe that this is the first time in the history of negotiations, informal trilogues with the council, that something like this has happened. this is not possible, mr president! that's why we're asking for the deposition. (applause from the centre) we are asking for the removal because we will not allow it. if coreper decides tomorrow on what i have in front of me, we will have to discuss how we are going to deal with the whole dossier. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council itself, in the negotiations last year, considered that the removal of the three articles, which has now been decided, constituted a flagrant breach of european law. you have to know that. they want a regulation, and a regulation is supposed to regulate something. and they want to take out the content of the regulation, which is exactly what it is supposed to regulate. that's remarkable. that is why we must take this item off the agenda at all costs.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would like to support mr rapkay's proposal after the fact, as rapporteur of one of the three reports on which a decision is now theoretically to be taken. i think this is a really unique event. the european council is not called upon by the treaties to legislate. i would just like to add to what mr rapkay has said. the european council meeting at midnight is a time for legislation, and it is obvious that it is nonsense. (applause from the centre) the deletion of articles 6 to 8 deprives this proposal of its core scope. we have also received clear confirmation in cooperation with the legal service and at the hearing of experts that we can only use this legal basis for intellectual property rights if we also regulate intellectual property rights, i.e. if we also define patent claims. this has been discussed for months both internally and with the council, and then at the request of a single head of government, at midnight, these three core areas are deleted. the result would be that if we decided to do so in the way the council would like, we would very likely have a crash test at the first referral to the european court of justice. it's not responsible. parliamentary deliberations have their purpose. it is a document which is carefully discussed, with the necessary time, the necessary consideration and then with clear results. you can't break something like that off the fence. that is why this item must be removed from the agenda today!
i'm asking you to listen for a moment so we can proceed in a procedural manner. mr rapkay, the rapporteur, has asked for this item to be taken off the agenda. i shall put this to the vote in a moment. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so here's what i'm finding: what would have been on the agenda for the vote tomorrow was an agreement at first reading between the rapporteur and the council. on 2 december 2011, the council informed mr lehne by formal letter that it had unanimously adopted the text in coreper format which we were to adopt here tomorrow. the european council has now asked coreper to amend this text, and to do so tomorrow. we are therefore in a situation where an agreement at first reading has been annulled by the council. that means there is no agreement at first reading. i therefore assume that the council will inform you, mr lehne, in a letter of amendment, of its new version. i would ask you to put the matter back on the agenda in committee afterwards, because the committee will then have to decide how to proceed. that is to say, we shall take the item off the agenda and, after receiving the formal letter from the council to you, you will refer the matter back to the legal affairs committee. i will now state that and have it recorded in the minutes. (parliament adopted the resolution)
mr. moreira, you're faster than i am. your group has already informed me that you wanted to ask for a debate on the agreement between israel and the european union on acca to be included on the agenda instead of the debate on the patent. (parliament adopted the resolution) the epp group has asked for a debate on statements by the council and the commission on the political situation in romania to be included on the agenda.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we want to use the time tomorrow to discuss the current political situation in romania, and there are three main reasons for this: for one thing, we've all read in the newspapers that there's a dispute over the prime minister's responsibility for his doctoral thesis. but the thesis is not our topic, but the way the ethics commission in romania is dealt with, which has to clarify such incidents, causes us indignation that people are called back, the ethics commission is inflated to possibly get other results, and that the way these results are published in the official journal is also changed between parliament and the government to be able to react as quickly as possible and to be able to soften unpleasant judgments. the second thing that concerns us is the way in which public television is being treated in romania. the legal basis for public television states that the parliamentary groups should be represented in the monitoring bodies, and the persons who have now been appointed are all members of the government group, which is therefore contrary to the law. the third request we have, the third consideration which is driving us, is probably the most important, the most difficult, namely the representation of romania at the european council at the end of the week. there was a dispute between the president and the prime minister over who was to represent romania there. this question was submitted to the constitutional court in romania, and it has clearly ruled that the president has to take over the foreign representation of romania. and the prime minister has not complied with this decision of the constitutional court and has mobilized his parliamentary group to oppose it. all of these are points where we ask the question whether someone as prime minister is able to play by the democratic rules, the constitutional rules, or whether he wants to lead his country into a constitutional crisis. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) that is why we are asking for a debate. and those of you who are now calling for this to be done should bear in mind that we as a parliament must look at developments critically - seriously, mr swoboda - and not from a party political point of view. we should at least have the opportunity to talk about it, no more and no less! if you have nothing to hide, you have nothing to fear from a debate!
the situation is clear: it is a question of the request of the epp group to put on the agenda a statement by the council and the commission on the situation in romania. (parliament rejected the request) (the agenda is therefore adopted.) other amendments to the agenda: see minutes.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on transport and tourism on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a single european railway area (recast) (18581/2/2011 c7-0073/2012 2010/0253 ((cod)) (rapporteur: debora serracchiani (a7-0196/2012)).
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, the recast directive establishing a single european railway area is essential to make the european railway system and the entire european transport system more efficient, more competitive and more financially sound. i would like to thank the danish presidency for its skilful negotiations, with a very narrow majority in the council. i would also like sincerely to thank the rapporteur ms serracchiani, together with the shadow rapporteurs, the chairman and the members of the committee on transport and tourism. ms serracchiani managed to improve the text in the second reading significantly. let me just mention what the commission sees as some of the main results. firstly, the compromise package significantly strengthens the power of national regulators, with new independence requirements and increased areas of responsibility and means at their disposal. a formal network of regulators will be established to ensure particularly that cross-border traffic is adequately handled. the commission intends to play a very active role in this network. secondly, the new framework for investment in the rail sector will set out clearer obligations for member states and infrastructure managers. it also envisages charging schemes to stimulate the deployment of greener and interoperable technologies. thirdly, this text will facilitate access to the rail market for new entrants. lastly, as requested by parliament, the compromise package provides for more transparency in the financial flows between infrastructure managers and railway undertakings. it also includes a review clause which reflects the commission’s commitment to issuing new proposals on separation and domestic passenger market opening by the end of the year. before concluding i need to make a formal statement. ‘ the commission underlines that it is contrary to the letter and to the spirit of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 to invoke article 5, paragraph 4, subparagraph 2(b) in a systematic manner. recourse to this provision must respond to a specific need to depart from the rule of principle which is that the commission may adopt a draft implementing act when no opinion is delivered. given that it is an exception to the general rule established by article 5, paragraph 4, recourse to subparagraph 2(b) cannot be simply seen as a “discretionary power” of the legislator, but must be interpreted in a restrictive manner and thus must be justified. ‘while the commission supports the agreement reached by the european parliament and the council on the recourse to this provision in nine specific cases which they have justified by reason of their potential impact on the functioning of the rail market and public finances, it regrets that such justification is not reflected in a recital.’ in conclusion i would like to stress that the commission supports this agreement, which improves the text of the council position. i am convinced that there is no better deal. the adoption of any further amendment, such as the amendment to article 2(2) – the so-called polish derogation – would inevitably lead to a conciliation procedure. this would not only put at risk the major improvements that the european parliament has managed to obtain in this piece of legislation but also the possibility of putting forward new intiatives to promote the completion of the european single railway area. the recast directive is a precondition for further initiatives to complete the internal market for rail services for which many members of this parliament have called. i want to reaffirm today that the commission is fully committed to delivering a new package of measures by the end of this year.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs serracchiani, who has really played as masterfully in attack and defence as the new and old european football champions. we all heard about it, of course. it was very important that we could then agree with the council and the commission on the entry into force and the various time limits, the 30 months, and that the appeal procedure was finally - as has often been the case - limited to a maximum of 16 weeks. these are very important advances. the epp group has always focused on the need for a strong regulator in each member state, one that is independent, has a good material and technical base and a reasonable staff, and is able to take decisions. these regulatory bodies must be able to work together in a network, because we want to have a common european railway market. we also need a contact person in the commission. it does not have to be the big european regulator, but we have a european railway agency that can help with such tasks. clear and transparent cost calculation for all: how much does a kilometre on the track cost? this is a crucial point. we have been able to agree on this, but also on the fact that the member states should also co-finance the railways, which is crucial, especially in cross-border projects, so that a transport route has an economic value. it was very important that we could agree on the five years here. and if you want to operate railways within europe - whether in passenger or freight - it is of course necessary to provide services to each other. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must also have security in the ets system, but also transeuropean reciprocity. it is not possible that the russian federation and ukraine can ride with us and we, on the other hand, cannot ride with them. these are the issues raised in the amendments, and we must find a solution to them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs very warmly. it was difficult, it was long, but in the end a compromise was reached. the single railway area was agreed in 2001, but we are still a long way from it. there are countries that have a strict separation of network and operation, but no other company on the rail network, and there are integrated concepts with a lot of competition. that needs to be clarified, which is why we wanted this new version here. it was, of course, much too late, because for nine years the commission looked at this and did nothing. and then she started the legal proceedings, and we were actually going to wait with the "unbundling" and other issues until the court decided. we need a strong regulator, with quick decisions and with good equipment. because we have the situation that in some countries there is no regulatory body at all, that in some countries the decision is made in 14 days, in others in two months, when all the forms are filled in - as this is never the case, it can take two years - and there are countries where you do not even get an answer within two years. so we enforced the regulator. we would naturally have liked the transitional arrangements to have been introduced sooner. after nine or ten years of nothing, it was reasonable to wait another six years, which would have been quicker. but we have insisted on transparency, on knowing the cash flows, on tackling the learning problem, on ertms, on having a european train control system that makes it easier to drive locomotives across borders, and we have eliminated unfair competition, especially in electricity prices. there must be fair prices for all. no one should be favored. it has been mentioned earlier that the separation of the network from the operation and also the liberalisation of passenger transport should take place in the fourth railway package. the commission has decided to do so, but we are also awaiting the court's decision. that is why we want to see the single railway area finally come into being, because it is good for the environment and of course for the european market!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not in the context of the first railway package, all the other groups except mine seem to believe that more competition in the railway sector could be beneficial for the citizens. the opposite is true. or is it to safeguard the profits of private companies in the railway sector and to ensure the rapid dismantling and privatisation of former state railways such as the sncf or deutsche bahn ag? although practice in the uk, for example, has already shown that this is the wrong way to go, it is to be followed throughout the eu. this policy of liberalization is not only detrimental to railway workers but also to passenger safety. the railway sector must not lose its economic, social and ecological role for the future and must not be divided into market-driven and profit-driven parts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these not only provide social security for the workers, but also guarantee that more transport will be carried by rail in the future. in the negotiations with the council and the commission, the majority of the other groups essentially followed the commission's proposal for further liberalisation and privatisation of the railway sector. the responsibilities in safety matters between national railway supervisors and the new eu regulator remain unclear. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of rail transport is not compromised. the european parliament's negotiations with the council and the commission have always included the possibility of introducing a fourth railway package to provide an additional step towards the separation of the network from the operation. my group will also oppose this resolutely.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur is right. i think the european union's objective is clear: to ensure a better common rail policy. and this legislation is helping to do that. it is helping to do this by opening up the market to basic services, for example, and that is a positive thing. and i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for having adhered to these multiannual financing plans between infrastructure operators and the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railway sector is not left behind. it has been mentioned several times today: the most important point in this legislation will be to give the national regulatory authorities the role they should have, namely to give them more powers and not to make them as weak as they are in many member states of the european union. the situation today is that we have regulatory authorities that cannot allow other competitors to enter the market, and that makes it difficult for them to enter the market. this legislation will firstly monitor these unfair practices and secondly it will also correct them or they can be punished. and finally, a step in the right direction: transparency of the financial flows. it must also be made clear that this must not, of course, pave the way for the separation of the grid and the operation to be anticipated, because that would be too much of an interference with national subsidiarity rights. so we should leave it at that. i would like to thank the rapporteur once again, and especially the shadow rapporteurs, for the fact that we have found good legislation!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it has already been said that we do not have a european railway area, although many people, probably all citizens, suspect that. we have partially missing rails, we have different track widths, we have different technologies and we also have no fair competition. there are some countries where it is very difficult for other competitors to enter the railway market. we have to do something about that. i would like to thank commissioner kallas in particular. it has actually taken action and put something into motion which has actually been due for nine years, because we have noticed that the member states are not implementing what we have decided. i would also like to thank mrs serracchiani, who has done a great job so far. we actually have a process now where we're emphasizing a strong regulator. we always said that's the most important thing. the second is a separation of network and operator which we must discuss and where we must wait for the commission's proposal and then see how it corresponds to practice. the most important thing is that we have already introduced what is known as mini-unbundling, i.e. greater transparency in financial flows. mr. ertug was just addressing it. i think that's very important. we must do everything we can to achieve a truly unified european railway area.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the fact is that with the digital tachograph, we were very much in agreement on many things during the negotiations. i would also like to express my gratitude to silvia țicău, who has been very committed in negotiating this with us shadow rapporteurs. we also agree on the main points: that it is a question of adapting the whole thing, that technological innovation will improve the controls, which must also be strengthened, and that greater transparency is required in relation to what can now be installed, what we can control. so i agree with a lot of things, but there's one thing i don't agree with, and that's what i want to focus on. and i'm going to start with a little bit of the general stuff. in the eu 2020 strategy, we repeatedly stress the importance of smes. there are many of them, and they create jobs and training. in 2009, a proposal for the reduction of red tape was awarded to smes in this area, which proposed that member states should be able to grant derogations for tachographs, so that a craftsman who drives his own 3.5-tonne vehicle, for example, does not need a tachograph if he is only 50 kilometres from his place of business. that should now be extended to 100 miles. this proposal has been awarded. and there was actually a great deal of agreement here - not among all of them - that it would be good to go in this direction, that it would really mean de-bureaucratization. the commission has now unfortunately proposed only 100 kilometres. we have to be very careful about the way we use our money. we had a majority for 150 kilometres for this very proposal. that's being called into question again at the moment. we have now said in general that the regulation should be applied only over 100 kilometres - that is correct - but at the same time the weight should be reduced to 2.8 tonnes. in germany, although 2.8 tonnes are already provided for in the regulation, there are so many exemptions that it is precisely the small master painter and electrician who are not affected at all. that would change. i think that is why we must vote against amendment no 134 and in favour of my motion no 129. we would then be moving towards de-bureaucratisation and really doing something for small and mediumsized enterprises.
question for the commissioner: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. you just said we need a shared validity. i agree with that. but you also said that it should be for professional drivers and not for others. but i do not think that is the case in the present situation. a layman, a roofing contractor, for example, who drives things himself and has a 2.8-ton vehicle, a light commercial vehicle -- there are a lot of them -- and then drives more than 100 kilometers, 103 kilometers in one direction, once every three years, actually has to install a digital tachograph. do you think that's proportionate? and you think it would threaten security if we didn't?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work and, of course, the shadow rapporteurs - we know that this has been a difficult task. the european parliament has always had the aim of improving road safety. this house has helped to achieve this by various laws. i would like to remind you of the points on tax fatigue and the fight against the exploitation of workers. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the commission has therefore decided to continue to prevent any future manipulation, subject of course to strict data protection rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the case of the derogation, i would insist that these 150 kilometres be retained for craft enterprises, because this is important for the business of these enterprises.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the protection of intellectual property rights is of vital importance to the european economy. the increasing frequency of infringements and the steady increase in trade in infringing goods threaten the growth of our economy and, therefore, jobs. counterfeit products not only harm the industry concerned but can also pose a serious risk to the health and safety of consumers. this is very often forgotten in this discussion. customs authorities at the eu's external borders are in a comparatively favourable position to stop infringing goods before they enter the internal market. that is why it is so important that this regulation is adapted to the new challenges of our time. the commission has recognised the need for action and last year put forward a good proposal extending the scope of the regulation, increasing legal certainty for goods in transit and proposing a special procedure for small consignments in view of the growing trade in counterfeit products on the internet. however, i believe that there is still considerable potential for further improving the conditions for the actors concerned. i am referring in particular to the customs authorities, the rights holders and the consumers. i have four main objectives in my report: firstly, to strengthen consumer protection; secondly, to relieve the customs authorities; thirdly, to strengthen the rights of rightholders; and fourthly, to ensure that data protection is respected. firstly, contrary to what is widely believed, enforcement of intellectual property rights is also primarily in the interests of consumers. because counterfeit products are usually not in compliance with the law and are not usually subject to quality control. these products therefore often endanger the safety and health of consumers. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the products we sell is not compromised. in some cases, counterfeiting can even be life-threatening. for example, a german car manufacturer alerted me to the deadly danger of counterfeit brake systems. secondly, customs authorities can only effectively enforce the multiple protection rights if they can handle the procedures quickly and efficiently. we have therefore made a number of proposals to facilitate the work of the customs authorities. in principle, a uniform, simplified procedure for the destruction of goods and the initiation of proceedings should be used for all infringements as far as possible. the procedure proposed by our committee allows the destruction of the goods without a finding of infringement by a court, provided that the right holder confirms the infringement, and this is very important, and the applicant or the owner of the goods does not object. this ensures legal protection and the rule of law. the special procedure for small consignments makes it easier to destroy goods, because customs no longer have to contact the right holder in individual cases. this helps both the customs authorities and the rights holders. the conditions for the exchange of information between customs authorities in the union and the competent authorities in third countries should be improved. this will make it possible to prevent the production and distribution of counterfeit goods closer to the source. thirdly, we also want to strengthen the intellectual property rights holders with the new regulation. they are the ones who, with their innovations, are the main generators of growth and jobs in europe. if we europeans are to remain competitive, we must encourage innovation by effectively enforcing intellectual property rights. we have a number of proposals to this end: (a) right holders should have better access to information on seized goods. (b) they may also use this information to identify the offender and in criminal proceedings and in settlements outside the court. (c) the greatest improvement is the reversal of the burden of proof in the case of goods in transit. i shall return to this in the summary later.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i believe that the report by mr creutzmann no longer needs to be revised in any fundamental way, but that the main points in this report, which is intended to be part of a strategy for intellectual property rights throughout europe, offer a correct approach which we would like to change in one place only, as mrs gallo has already said. we need more protection in international trade because it is of fundamental importance for consumers on the one hand, but also for european companies on the other. it has already been mentioned that the oecd estimates that we are now losing about 250 billion dollars a year from the trade in counterfeit goods. we've been working very hard over the last few months on how we can not only get stronger enforcement of intellectual property rights - because that can always be just part of the strategy, because i agree with a lot of what's been said - but also how we can get, especially young people, to have a greater understanding of the fact that intellectual property is not something that falls from the sky, but something that authors, inventors, inventors and others have been working on for years and that everyone has a social responsibility for. i therefore think, commissioner, that it was also very positive that commissioner barnier has praised the prize for ideal communication on intellectual property rights, which we were able to award for the first time last year. the enhanced role of customs authorities in enforcing intellectual property rights will make it much easier to combat trademark and product piracy. the fact that the customs authorities are not competent to control patents is not in question here. but the bulk of the trademark and product piracy that customs deals with is not patent litigation, but very basic issues. i therefore believe that with this report by mr creutzmann we have found a fair balance of interests which will be discussed again in the negotiations with the council at second reading.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think we are faced here with a very important question that needs to be solved, regulated. i therefore very much welcome the fact that the commission has tabled this legislative proposal. this is about the safety of the citizens. we have received a great deal of information about how counterfeit products can be problematic for people's health and well-being, but also for pricing, and how important it is for entrepreneurs to be able to sell products that they have actually produced, while of course protecting intellectual property accordingly. however, there are some issues which are still very controversial in the european parliament. the first question seems to have been answered to some extent, and i should like to thank my colleague, mrs hedh, who has done a very good job, particularly with regard to generics and medicines. the question of transit is a very fundamental one in this context. we cannot accept that difficulties are being introduced here which have nothing to do with the protection of intellectual property but concern quite other matters. we must be very careful about what we do in this area. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the second point which is very important to us is - and i very much agree with what you said earlier, mr šemeta, in the area of patent infringement - that the rule of law must be upheld at all costs. that is why, if two of the amendments we have tabled are not adopted, our group will not be able to endorse the creutzmann report, because we want to ensure legal certainty but also to ensure the rule of law and the rights of citizens in this context. that is why it does not matter how the vote is taken at the end. that is why our final vote is still open tomorrow.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i'm still a little bit affected by the discussion. mr engström, it is clear that the customs authorities will not be the arbiter of patents, as the commissioner has stressed again. i do not understand the concerns of my socialist colleagues either. i think that this concern is completely unfounded, because as far as generics are concerned, the text makes it explicitly clear for the first time that customs authorities must not impede the free movement of medicinal products, and in particular generics. we have further reinforced this principle in our report. i also emphasized - this was also one of the points of discussion - that the rule of law is upheld. this is a very important criterion, that is to say, that the person who has been wronged can also take action against decisions taken by the customs authorities. i am also pleased to note that the council has accepted many of our amendments in its compromise text, including, for example, commissioner, the delegated acts for small consignments. we have proposed two kilos and three pieces, the council is going to make three kilos and five pieces of this, so we are sure to get a good result. i hope that we will get a large majority in the plenary tomorrow on the report so that we can then also enter into negotiations with the council directly and that, as the commissioner said in his contribution, a regulation will then come into force at the end of the year which will help everyone, namely consumers, data protection, businesses - this has been emphasised several times in the contributions - but also the customs authorities. our contribution was to reduce the bureaucracy for the customs authorities, to help them to clarify things. i think we did it!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think we can thank the rapporteur for his report, he has presented it in full, he has set out the priorities, and i think that if the commission takes this paper into its hands it will have a sufficient basis for its work. i read the other day that a study has found that in some areas of europe, tap water is of better quality than bottled still water. i think there's something to that. we should also take this seriously, because we have made a significant contribution to this through our legislation here, the water framework directive in 2000 and many subsequent water laws that we have passed. we have ensured that water is not a health hazard, but we have also ensured that industry can develop because water is necessary for everything. the crux of the matter is that member states have implemented these rules very differently. the commission must act much more vigorously here if certain things are to be implemented more quickly. i'll give you one example. there are many examples. the drinking water in brussels does not seem to meet the standards we have set. so maybe we should be a little bit more aggressive here. the next challenge is to invest heavily in research. the next research framework programme should once again be examined to see whether we cannot contribute to water production, to the increase in efficiency in the production of water, in the use of water - this is actually the decisive point for me. but, commissioner, you cannot achieve that by prescribing shower heads, we should forget that! only 10% of the water is used in households. let's stop spoiling the citizen, let's explain to him that it's important to save water, to use it efficiently. we'll do more than prescribe showerheads!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the water framework directive of 2000 was and is still a necessary challenge to protect water as an essential lifeline. to reach the destination, you must make stops, check, correct your course, or accelerate. we have achieved a great deal, but there is still much to be done. member states are obliged to implement the water framework directive and its subsidiary directives. as rapporteur on the groundwater directive, i am once again bringing the long-term into the debate. it takes at least 20 years for a harmful substance to reach groundwater. but it takes at least 30 years to bring about improvements again, and much of the damage is beyond repair. that is why the precautionary principle is particularly elementary in water, and we have embedded it. soil is the greatest filter for healthy water. we have set clear limits in the groundwater directive. the member states have an obligation to do so. ground does not move. it is always in the same member state, and therefore subsidiarity is called for. we have integrated water protection into many different policy areas, and in particular in the new biocides regulation and the pesticides legislation we have adopted regulations which, through strict limits and guidelines on the correct use of products, significantly improve the state of the waters. the amendment of the priority substances in the water sector must be compatible and complementary to the other directives and regulations on healthy water. there must be no contradiction here. i thank mr seeber for his balanced and - yes - critical and constructive report!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. many thousands of people could be alive today or would not have permanent disabilities if professional medical help had been provided quickly enough, i.e. within the first so-called 'golden hour', after their accident. we'd be a whole lot closer to vision zero. well, the ecall system we're talking about today can't prevent accidents. it does not relieve you of your first aid duty. it is only used to automatically inform an emergency call centre in the event of a major accident. this must establish linguistic contact with the accident vehicle, also to avoid abuse and overloading due to minor accidents. only when the distress call is confirmed or no one answers will emergency medical personnel be dispatched to the scene with little but vital information. the responsibility for the functioning of this rescue chain lies subsidiarily with the member states. as long as the in-vehicle sensors do not detect an accident, the ecall system is dormant, i.e. neither transmits any signals or data nor is it locatable. it is thus far superior to a mobile phone from the point of view of data protection. the system is only activated by automatic wake-up controlled by sensors or by deliberate manual triggering. it then sends an agreed minimum dataset of information to a rescue control centre. uniform standards and specifications across europe will ensure that this data is recognised, assessed and treated as an emergency call when it arrives. the member states must therefore also upgrade and extend their emergency services chains accordingly. we want this ecall emergency call system to be based on the eu's single emergency number 112, to be free of charge for the user, to work throughout the eu and to be compatible with the emergency call systems of neighbouring third countries. it is to be based on an interoperable, technology-neutral open system architecture. these can later be used to provide other intelligent public transport services, such as real-time traffic information or parking availability. in recognition of the automotive industry's great achievements in providing private emergency systems, these should continue to exist alongside the public 112-based ecall. users can also choose such a system on the basis of detailed information. this may be accompanied by the use of the data by workshops, insurance companies, towing services or other service providers, where appropriate subject to payment. if 80% of motorists want such a system and if it is welcomed and demanded by associations and associations of disabled people, then we must neither delay nor prevent it! i'm counting on a big house vote tomorrow.
the first item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the danish presidency of the council of the european union. i would like to congratulate the president-in-office of the european council and prime minister of denmark, mrs helle thorning-schmidt, on her work. i am also delighted that the president of the commission, mr barroso, is here this morning.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have heard a great deal about the fact that the european house is being built from the bricks of solidarity. however, every house must have a foundation that is solid. this has been the defining feature of the last six months: the link between solidarity and solidity. i would therefore have liked, madam prime minister, that you had also spoken a little more about the subject of solidity and about how we are managing to control the situation we are in - the debt crisis in the member states, which has affected our currency - more and better. you mentioned the two-pack, that does fall within your presidency. the two-pack is what we, as the european parliament, have called for. i think we need to take a bold step forward if we're gonna be successful here. the council's decisions at the weekend leave many questions open. mr swoboda mentioned the growth pact. i know this is something that's very close to his heart. the mirror called the whole thing a con pack. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not sure that this is really sound, that it is possible to build public trust in this way. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one. we want to unlock growth, we want the european patent. but - and i agree with mr swoboda on this - it is absolutely absurd what the council has decided: a court with three different locations - london, paris and munich - is downright grotesque and shows that the member states are clearly unable to reach a rational decision on such an important and innovative issue. i have a question . the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european banking authority. i thought we had a european banking authority. will we now also have a two-seat banking supervision, will we have two different banking supervision? how exactly does the council envisage this? it is not a question of the commission's being able to take action, but of the commission's being able to take action. i would like to thank you for your commitment to the presidency. they have really successfully advanced some other issues. i have not mentioned schengen, which was certainly a wonderful point of your presidency. but the enlargement policy with serbia and montenegro is certainly one of the positive aspects.
ladies and gentlemen! mr callanan has just kindly congratulated the secretary-general on his birthday. you've taken away my chance to congratulate him at the end of this round. thank you for your kind assistance. but i would like to congratulate the secretary-general together with another member of this house, and because he is such an extraordinary member, i had reserved the right to wait until he is in the chamber, which is now the case. because our former president jerzy buzek is celebrating his birthday today. i would like to congratulate you, mr president. jerzy, i wanted to congratulate you with the secretary general because i think it's so great that the secretary general and the president always have a birthday together. now it's separated, now we have two reasons to celebrate, so it's progress.
mr president, madam president of the council! as rapporteur for the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control, i have completed two procedures under your presidency: the financial regulation, which sets out the rules for the next mff period, and the olaf procedure. since november 2008, this regulation has been on the council's waiting list and you have concluded this procedure, building on the results of the polish presidency. i would therefore like to thank you for two very, very dedicated financial officers who have dealt with these dossiers, as well as ambassador tranholm-mikkelsen. i'll miss you, we'll miss your efficiency as a negotiator. they have really served the financial interests of the european union. thank you very much.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 28 and 29 june 2012. as you know, ladies and gentlemen, at the informal summit of the european council on 23 may 2012, i proposed a growth pact in which all three eu institutions would work closely together to take all the necessary measures to overcome the crisis over the next six to 12 months. the president of the commission, mr barroso, thankfully took up this idea in the form of an interinstitutional agreement and presented it to parliament at its last meeting. parliament has therefore, by a large majority, instructed me to put this idea to the european council together with mr barroso. unfortunately, the european council has not adopted our joint proposal for an interinstitutional agreement. i think it is appropriate to comment on this. i do not want to hide from you that there was overwhelming support in the european council for our proposal. the vast majority of the heads of government of the european union have supported this interinstitutional agreement. but at the same time it has become clear that the european council has a structural weakness, namely its unanimity principle. and i think we're not going to get out of this crisis with this unanimity. i thank the commission for its support. i would suggest that both institutions, the commission and parliament, should stick to the idea of contributing to an accelerated legislative process, if desired, in close and constructive cooperation and in full respect of the rights of the european parliament. the compromise reached in the field of the european patent is certainly not an example of how this should be done. we are firmly convinced that we must do everything together in the interests of the people of europe to get out of this crisis quickly and stronger. i would like to convey to you the positive news that the european council has adopted the human rights pact and the related action plan for which we as a parliament have been fighting for a long time. i think we as the european parliament should very much welcome this decision, because this package makes human rights and democracy a central concern of european foreign policy. we are all convinced that the human rights package provides an extremely good basis for making human rights and democratization policies more effective and coherent. we look forward to the next step of making this human rights package publicly visible in a solemn interinstitutional declaration and to documenting the support of all three institutions for it.
president of the european council. − mr president, last week’s european council was about combining short-term action to stabilise the markets and medium-term action to stimulate growth, together with a longer-term vision on the way forward to strengthen our economic and monetary union. it was a sometimes difficult but in the end fruitful meeting. it was another step on the long road to overcoming the financial and economic crisis and correcting the structural flaws of the euro area framework. the steps we took last week were important on a number of fronts. first, we put together and decided on a compact for growth and jobs. it will mobilise eur 120 billion for immediate investment, which will boost the financing of the economy and help create jobs. a eur 10 billion increase in the capital of the european investment bank will increase the bank’s overall lending capacity by eur 60 billion. the other eur 60 billion comes, first, from the structural funds which will be devoted to growth-enhancing measures in the current period (eur 55 billion) and, second, from the pilot phase of project bonds that will be launched this summer and will go to key initiatives such as energy, transport and broadband infrastructure. the compact for growth is not just about injecting money. it contains a number of elements: work to be done individually by the member states, which have already undertaken a number of commitments in that respect, and work to be done together as a union, including deepening the single market, negotiating good trade agreements, working together on tax matters, and strengthening the european research area. several member states will launch a request for enhanced cooperation regarding a financial transaction tax with a view to its adoption by december 2012. as i have said before, the european council has not suddenly discovered the virtues of economic growth. relaunching growth and creating jobs has been a constant concern, from the very first meeting under my presidency in february 2010 right up until now. i am happy that this european council has been able to give it a real push. the growth and jobs agenda requires a structural approach, but also short-term actions for financial stability. a return of confidence for consumers and investors will itself lead to more demand and growth. my second main point is that, as eurozone leaders, we reaffirmed our strong commitment to do what is necessary to ensure the financial stability of the euro area. in particular, we affirmed that it is imperative to break the vicious circle between banks and sovereigns, and we reached a number of important agreements to this effect among the eurozone member states, the 17. we urged the rapid conclusion of the memorandum of understanding attached to the financial support to spain for recapitalisation of its banking sector. we agreed that the financial assistance to spain will be provided by the efsf until the esm becomes available, and that it will then be transferred to the esm, without gaining seniority status. the commission will shortly present proposals for a single supervisory mechanism for the financial sector, on the basis of article 127 of the treaty, so involving the european central bank. we ask the council and parliament to consider these proposals, as a matter of urgency, before the end of the year. when an effective single supervisory mechanism is established, involving the ecb, the esm would, for banks in the euro area and following a regular decision, be able to recapitalise banks directly, of course under certain conditions and in certain circumstances. the aim is clearly to avoid this recapitalisation impacting upon public debt. this single supervisory mechanism was a key proposal in our recent report ‘towards a genuine economic and monetary union’. it is a breakthrough. it also shows a clear link between the longer-term measures we are proposing and the short-term actions we are taking. the euro group will examine the situation of the irish financial sector, with a view to further improving the sustainability of ireland’s well-performing adjustment programme. to ensure the financial stability of the euro area, we agreed to the possible use of existing efsf/esm instruments in a flexible and efficient manner, in order to stabilise markets for member states which are complying with our common rules, recommendations and timetables. the short-term measures in both areas respect the fundamental approach of the eurozone’s policies ever since the start of the crisis: responsibility and solidarity. we need both. we tasked the euro group to implement these decisions. the third important point concerns the further deepening our economic and monetary union. at their informal dinner of 23 may, the heads of state or government asked me to prepare, in close cooperation with the presidents of the commission, the euro group and the european central bank, a report on the future of the economic and monetary union. the financial and debt crisis has exposed structural weaknesses in the emu’s original design, which must be addressed. the stakes are high. my report was not a final blueprint or master plan but offered a perspective on how to strengthen the emu. it provided the main building blocks and a working method. it proposed an architecture based on more integrated frameworks for the financial sector, for budgetary matters, and for economic policy. it underlined the importance of strengthening at the same time the democratic legitimacy and accountability of decision-making within the emu. the european council has asked me to continue this work, again in close cooperation with the presidents of the commission, the euro group and the european central bank, and associating the governments in this process. it will also ensure that our parliament’s views are taken into account, and i look forward to working with you on this. in my view, we first need to exhaust all possibilities under the current treaties, then explore which avenues could require treaty change. the october report will focus on the first type of proposal. some solutions will be tailor-made to the members of the eurozone and those who are expected one day to join the euro. but the actions will matter for all member states. this european council also discussed other matters. we had our first discussion during a european council on the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020, a discussion to which your own president made a significant contribution. under the treaty, this is a matter for the council of ministers and for your parliament. however, we all know from past experience that this is one of the areas in which the european council will inevitably be called on to fulfil its role, under article 15 of the treaty, of defining ‘the general political directions and priorities’. in having a discussion on the principles and priorities without specific figures, it was my intention to focus attention not on national advantages and disadvantages but on the strategic priorities for the union as a whole. the european council agreed that the mff needs to be at the service of a strategy: jobs and growth throughout the union. hopefully we will finalise the work before the end of the year at the level of the council. your parliament, which adopted an important resolution on the mff, will of course be involved in this process. the european council found – finally – a solution to the question of the european patent. the last outstanding point, the seat of the unified patent court, was solved. after decades of unsuccessful attempts, this is a truly historic agreement. i call on your parliament to finalise the agreement with the council. i thank the danish prime minister for the close cooperation we had in this respect, which led to our joint appeal to our colleagues’ sense of compromise. we endorsed the decision to open accession negotiations with montenegro – a signal to the western balkans as a whole that they may have a european future if reform processes are maintained. this concludes my report on a european council meeting that achieved some significant results and took us a few more steps down our journey towards economic recovery. we dealt with short-, medium- and long-term problems. we found a balance between responsibility and solidarity. we worked on growth and jobs, on the one hand, and on financial stability on the other hand. we need reforms in our member states and collective action at the level of the eu and the eurozone. all this has to go hand in hand. it takes time. it demands courage. it will be implemented step by step. the agreements of thursday and friday are steps in the right direction.
president of the commission. − mr president, the president of the european council has just made a comprehensive presentation of the results of the european council conclusions. i would therefore like to focus my presentation on the economic and financial issues, many of which i have presented to this house and discussed with members previously. this european council and euro area summit has delivered results. it has delivered a set of measures which should strengthen confidence in europe’s financial stability and pave the way for the substantial work which is still needed. it has done this at a very difficult moment. as i have said before, this is a defining moment for europe, and indeed the sense of urgency was very present throughout the european council, even if different governments were under pressure for different reasons. and as the causes of the pressure differ, so do preferences for potential solutions. yet despite those difficulties this european council and euro area summit has for the first time tackled all the elements of a comprehensive response in one and the same meeting: namely by agreeing on measures to boost growth and jobs, by setting out the next steps for further deepening of economic and monetary union and by deciding on short-term stabilisation measures. the commission, as you know, has always argued that consolidation must be accompanied by sustainable growth created by structural reforms combined with targeted investment. it was therefore important that heads of state and government decided on the compact for growth and jobs. this compact is based very largely on proposals put forward by the commission and on ideas defended by this house, some of them since last year or even some years before. it turns intentions into concrete action with financing commitments, and sets out the levers for mobilising policies and funds – both at european level and at national level. i am very pleased that elements i have long been advocating at eu level are now becoming reality, namely: boosting the lending capacity of the european investment bank – you will remember, when i mentioned this here in the state of the union address in september last year, member states opposed this, but now they have agreed; launching the first phase of project bonds – this commission proposal that was initially received with great scepticism has now been approved; and redirecting a certain amount of structural funds towards supporting in particular smes and young unemployed people. indeed the unemployment situation in europe is by far the most worrying and urgent issue we should be able to address. at the same time, there is the recognition that we have important work to do to realise the full potential of the single market, particularly in digital and network industries. following the single market act the commission will bring forward a further package of measures in the autumn, the single market act ii, so that this work can continue uninterrupted. this of course is not the end of the efforts that need to be made. legislation needs to be proposed, adopted and implemented. action will be needed not from one institution on its own; all of us, commission, parliament and council, need to work together, and work together fast. this was recognised last week, and the conclusions acknowledge the need to improve cooperation to ensure the timely implementation of the growth compact. this will hopefully allow us to move towards an interinstitutional agreement to prioritise and speed up the relevant pieces of legislation, as i proposed in this house some weeks ago and as the european parliament president made very clear in his offer to the european council. i really expect such an agreement to be swiftly concluded. it would be an additional element of commitment and credibility on the delivery of our policy plans. the european council also generally endorsed the country-specific recommendations effectively closing the 2012 european semester. this year the semester has come of age with a real multilateral discussion. it is only natural that on some issues there was a vigorous discussion – even when the evidence of loss of competitiveness inside the single market and internationally makes a clear case for action in the interest of our citizens and their jobs. the debate shows that the exercise is not just a technical and economic one. it is truly political. through the debate in the european council, the awareness among many heads of state and government that we cannot separate the debate on growth from the debate on the european union budget has also increased. the eu budget is our most important instrument for targeted investment and is an indispensable tool for growth and jobs in europe. a long and complex negotiation is still ahead of us, but there is now momentum for a substantial outcome in reasonable time. this house has a full and vital role to play in this process, and the commission will continue to work very closely with you. it would indeed be a strong political and economic signal if we could reach agreement on the mff by the end of this year. i am aware that this parliament will want to work not only on the expenditure side, but also on the revenue side. i have already spoken about the overall developments on the financial transaction tax in the previous debate. let me just reiterate in this context our conviction that moving to enhanced cooperation on the ftt does not mean that the debate on the ftt as an element of a new own-resources mix is closed. on the contrary. looking to the future, this european council was able to define, on the basis of the report prepared by its president, together with the presidents of the commission, the european central bank and the euro group, the direction that further work must take on the creation of a genuine economic and monetary union. we all know that this is an undertaking that has to be built step by step over several years. this european council has now asked for a specific and time-bound road map to be worked out by the end of the year. and it has endorsed this aspiration collectively, even if it is clear that not all member states will want to be part of the ultimate outcome of the process. a stable euro is in the interest of the union as a whole. the process must therefore combine the necessary deepening of the euro area and its openness towards the member states who want to join the euro with the necessary safeguards for those who have an opt-out. in the commission’s view we should start making the genuine emu a reality as quickly as possible. we must in particular explore all that can be done on the basis of the existing treaties as a matter of urgency. in support of this, heads of state and government gave a clear commitment to the realisation of what the commission has been calling a ‘banking union’ and we have done it already in our european semester communication. the ‘banking union’ will be designed to fully address the structural shortcomings in the institutional framework for financial stability. as the aforementioned report puts it, addressing these shortcomings is particularly important for the euro area, given the deep interdependences resulting from the single currency. this must of course be done and must preserve the unity and integrity of the single market in the field of financial services, whilst allowing for specific differentiations between euro and non-euro area member states on those parts of the framework that are preponderantly linked to the functioning of the emu and the stability of the euro area rather than to the single market. let me emphasise that these differentiations cannot go just in one way. because it is so important, i want to make it crystal clear: they must respect the opt-outs from the euro area but they must also respect the fact that other member states not yet in the euro will want to join as soon as they meet the conditions. during the european council i confirmed that the commission will bring forward proposals under article 127 regarding the conferral upon the european central bank of banking supervision tasks. the strengthening of bank supervision became a central element of the consensus around this agenda. we will work out the detailed approach and its place in the wider architecture as a matter of priority and look forward to discussing it with all stakeholders, including of course this parliament. i believe a banking union is an indispensable step. but a genuine emu must go further. we need to build a fiscal union, a reinforced economic union, and take steps towards a political union. this is the logical consequence of the need for deeper integration to match our growing interdependence and need for financial stability. as we recognise that this greater solidarity requires greater responsibility we also understand that this requires more democratic legitimacy and political accountability. i need not repeat what i said about this matter to you just a month ago. the community method and the role and tasks of the eu institutions must be the starting point for all further improvements in this respect – and, let us be frank, it would be strange to say the least, when we are discussing the future of our union, including its democratic and accountability aspects, for the democratic institution that directly represents european citizens, the european parliament, not to be closely or directly associated with our decisions. it would not have been credible to address medium-term and long-term issues and not address the short-term challenges we face. here, the euro area statement takes great significance. let me underline the importance of this statement having been endorsed by all 27 member states. this is a strong message and has been perceived as such by the outside world. the first measure is to allow for direct recapitalisation of banks by the esm under appropriate conditions once a single supervisory mechanism for the euro area is in place. the commission’s intention to swiftly adopt a legislative proposal on the basis of article 127 is also key in this regard. secondly, we reached an agreement to waive the seniority of future loans for spain’s financial sector recapitalisation under the esm. thirdly, we agreed on the possibility of the flexible and effective use of all instruments for all member states respecting their obligations under the european semester, that is to say the country-specific recommendations, the rules under the stability and growth pact and the macro-economic imbalances procedure. these decisions represent the result of the recognition of the need for solidarity with responsibility. the commission will work without delay on implementing them over the coming weeks and months. after this european council, provided that all member states stick fully to the commitments that were made, we will be better equipped to face the serious challenges ahead. however, let us recall that all of this is work in progress. there is no quick fix, no magic fix and there will be no magic solutions. the magnitude of the agenda of the european council illustrates the magnitude of the work that is still ahead. this european council has pulled together many separate ideas which have been discussed in the past, and i believe the result is greater than the sum of its parts. it does not mean that the crisis is over, far from that, but it does mean that there is now an expression of the political will to move ahead, to respond to pressing short-term issues, as well as to map out a vision of europe in the longer term. the contributions this house has made to this end have been great and we welcome them. this is why i count on our close and intense cooperation also in the times to come. let me end on this. while there was progress in recognition that there is a need for a stronger europe, there was also very significant resistance to further steps forward, but there is a resistance precisely because there is movement. i want to reiterate my confidence that together we will be able to make the european union emerge stronger from the crisis and be able to better respond to the aspirations of its citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i must say first of all that as long as there is a debate after the european council and after the decisions taken against the crisis about whether mrs merkel has fallen, whether hollande or monti have won, whether the south is marching against the north or vice versa, i do not think that we are on the right track to get out of the european crisis. (applause from the centre) i must also tell you that all these approaches based on football analogies have really repulsed me in these times of crisis, because all we really know politically at the moment is that we will either get to a european team or we will fail. i found some things in the council's corridors that were comforting in this context. the council has been able to gain the impression that it has learned something in these difficult last days of the session. i had the impression that it was finally being understood that we are not dealing with a sovereign debt crisis but with a crisis of our common currency, because the euro can only function as a common currency if we actually have a common fiscal policy. the fact that we have recently come to the realization that we can only do this if we have a common banking supervision and a common banking union, i found this comforting, because ultimately it is really crucial whether these fundamental things are learned in the council or not. i also found it very good that more and more people seem to be coming to the realization that the euro can only work if the countries within the eurozone are willing to take on debt and risk within this common currency area. i was pleased to see this insight grow, even though mrs merkel made it a matter of life and death in the days leading up to the summit. in this context, it was very important that the decision was taken in italy and spain, that it was essential to decouple banking risks from state risks and that states should no longer be dragged into the abyss because they had to try to guarantee failing banks. unfortunately, the insights i have described and which have comforted me during the observation of this council were not sufficiently incorporated into the decisions. what they have decided on the efsf and the esm is still very much conditional. i would like to say to my predecessor, mr verhofstadt, that if you allow yourself time until the end of the year, i would venture to say to all those who live outside our continent and have always wanted to come here: visit europe while it still has the chance! if you do not put forward proposals with the commission by september on how we want to build the banking union as quickly as possible, how we want to work in a fiscal union with eurobills, debt relief funds and then prospectively with eurobonds, if you do not make clear how we want to actually pool all crisis instruments including the esm and the efsf, if you do not present a convincing pact for sustainable economic recovery and development, if you do not make clear how you want to further develop and implement the financial transaction tax, if you do not put forward a really convincing programme against youth unemployment, then we will not get very far in regaining confidence in the european union. mr barroso, you are the one who has to put pressure on the european parliament to ensure that the next decisions are ready for discussion in september! and mr van rompuy, i mean, you are a different character from me, i understand that. but i cannot understand the kind of sedate way in which you repeatedly announce the inadequacies of the council's decisions. (applause) 'the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.'
question for the commissioner: the commission is not i would like to ask mrs harms whether what she described as comforting - shared responsibility as a perspective, shared risk - does not necessarily entail shared political control or must be considered in parallel. because the debts of today, which we are jointly responsible for, are the taxes of tomorrow. no taxation without representation. that is a very important point. the second very specific question i have is this: you said that we should separate the risks of banks from the risks of the state, and that has now been achieved. but the esm, which is now recapitalising the banks, is being borne by the states. in other words, the state risk is distributed differently, but it remains. how do you assess this situation? i am very critical of this and very sceptical of the eurogroup's conclusion, how vague it is and how it will be applied in practice.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. mr lambsdorff, if you have followed the debates, you will know that my group has always been in favour of the idea that there is a policy which we have put into the formula: solidity and solidarity. the fact that these measures were not taken simultaneously was devastating for the european situation and aggravating the european crisis, but that, particularly because of germany's attitude, the budgetary solidity was the only option and at the same time the member states were asked to take a very high risk. i believe that the fiscal pact has basically created the conditions for us to now also be able to use these instruments of solidarity more fully. the second answer is that i am not in favour of unconditional bailouts of the banks. what we really have to sort out in the banking union is not just supervision, but access, influence on what has gone wrong in the banking and financial sector.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i am now thinking about the introduction of mr callanan. i'm very happy for one reason that germany didn't make it to the final: if this analogy holds, then whoever becomes european champion will become one of the most indebted countries 2004 greece, 2008 and 2012 spain. i don't know what would have happened in germany, but i'm glad we've been spared that development. mr van rompuy, at the end of the g20 summit you said that the economic union should be in place by the end of the year. however, you have linked this to empty formulas, and even now, after the summit, these empty formulas have not been filled. i therefore support all those who say: let us not rush from one summit to another, but let us finally ensure that we - the people of the european union and the directly elected members of the european parliament, the national parliaments and the other european institutions - can talk together about what we should do next and where we should go. this can only be a joint debate and it must start now. we need concrete ideas now. the declarations of the heads of government always referred to a breakthrough. i doubt it's really a breakthrough. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union. but they have not adopted the regulatory measures which they have recognized as necessary. in conclusion, i would say that the eu, the member states and the eurozone remain in crisis because the priorities have not changed, because the focus on global competitiveness, neoliberal deregulation and the privatisation of public services and social security systems have not changed. it is true that the pure doctrine of german austerity policy has been somewhat opened up by allowing a relaxation of access to esm aid without the need for the countries concerned to submit additional reform programmes. in this context, i would like to say that we should be grateful to the greek people and to syriza and tsipras for having focused on this particular sore spot, and we should also now negotiate with the greek government in the interests of the greek people. the full announced pact for growth and employment, however, remains again vague, lacking the necessary targets. the revenue necessary to finance such a programme is limited to the ecb's monetary creation and the eib's borrowing. we will also have to wait a while for the financial transaction tax to take effect. the other sums included in the 120 billion euro package appear to be a double count. it is already available anyway, and it has now been essentially confirmed that these funds will be made available swiftly. the answer to the important question of which investments and spending programmes need to be rapidly implemented remained relatively vague. the idea put forward by the french, of devoting 1% of gnp to such a programme of growth and employment, does not sound bad in itself. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. that means that what we sell as an employment programme is ultimately a programme for maximising the profits of private individuals, of corporations. and this in turn makes it difficult to regulate the financial sector in practice. we're setting ourselves up for the next setback.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to make two specific points: it is important that a growth pact has now been agreed at this council. but a lot of it is built on sand. of the 120 billion, 55 billion will come from the structural funds. i do not yet understand how they can be mobilised in the short term without the member states making additional and short-term contributions to the eu budget. i would like to know from you, precisely and decisively, whether these payments are there, what commitments have been made there so that these 55 billion euros can now actually flow into sustainable growth. the second question i would like to ask is about the banking union. they proposed to act on the basis of article 127 (6) tfeu. that means unanimity in the council and therefore also a veto for britain and other opponents. i can only ask you to make this banking union, but to make it on the basis of the community method, and that means on the same basis as we have already negotiated here on the common banking supervision. the democratic rights of the european parliament must not be abused there! i ask you to act on that basis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we have a massive crisis of confidence, and so expectations at the last summit were relatively high. the summit was little different from previous summits, with one difference: rarely have differences between the negotiating partners and the negotiating tactics, which sometimes border on blackmail, been so clearly expressed as this time. finally, on friday morning, an agreement was reached. it is not the case that the european parliament has not been consulted on the matter, but that the council has not been consulted on the matter. the netherlands and finland have already announced that they do not want to buy government bonds on the secondary market. and the markets that have responded positively so far are also starting to question and dismiss the result. i am very pleased that the summit has decided to take the creation of a genuine banking union seriously. if we have a common economic and monetary area, we also need a real functioning internal market for financial services. this of course includes banking supervision, but it also includes a bank resolution and rescue fund and finally it also includes a deposit guarantee scheme. it's gonna take some time. and i hope that at least in the first step, the establishment of supervision at the ecb, the european parliament will be given due consideration and that it will not be as it has been in recent times. the big breakthrough was certainly not this summit. the liberation blow has failed. the citizens are as uncertain as before, and we will, i fear, continue to wrestle, and i can only hope that we have enough time until we find the final solution!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in fact, the summit has turned the debate around. but, mr van rompuy, the member states have not yet dared to jump in. in fact, it is a major breakthrough to say that we want to make the european stability mechanism more active. that's good, that's right. because otherwise we can't really contain the crisis. but i also understand perfectly well why the first member states are already backing away from this, why the first heroes of their troops are already fighting back. why would you do that? because they forgot to clarify how the stability mechanism should be financed to be able to do that. this brings us to the main problem of our discussion. europe is called for! we will only overcome the crisis if we can make a great qualitative leap: more europe, better working and more joint action. but we can't just run to this big jump and slow down. that is what member states are constantly saying. the second issue - and i can show it here - is that it is right to say that we want to make a growth programme. the growth programme is essential. you have the means to do so, mr van rompuy, and so does mr barroso. just give us the numbers on how much this growth program can move. 0.1%, 0.2%, 0.6% of the national product? and what will it cost us to implement the still too rigid rules of the fiscal pact? one, one and a half percent? how's the bill coming? we're going to have to do more in that direction for it to work.
president of the european council. - a few words on the questions put to me. firstly, the report on the deepening of economic and monetary union. we are reporting on this in october and december. i intend to talk in october mainly about what can be achieved within the existing treaties. in that sense, it is not really an interim report. it's temporary, because it's a stopover for treaty amendment, if you will. but it is important in itself, because what we can do within the existing treaties can be valuable in itself. we must discuss with the president of the european parliament how we can organise cooperation between the european parliament and those responsible for writing the report, who are the presidents of the four european institutions. we will be in touch shortly. i am naturally prepared to cooperate intensively with parliament on this matter, as we have done in the past - i am thinking of the report on the task force. if i have spoken of a breakthrough, it is in one precise sense, and i usually express myself rather carefully, even if i am misquoted afterwards. but i'm not going to correct all the wrong quotes, i'm not having fun with that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so i regard this breakthrough to a single supervisor as one of the most important achievements of the european council of last thursday and friday. at the same time, it is a first implementation, if i may say so, of the report which the president of the commission, myself and two other colleagues have tabled on the deepening of economic and monetary union. in that precise sense of the word, it's a breakthrough. the decisions of the european council and the summit on the euro area have always been taken unanimously. there can be no decisions other than unanimous decisions. that is unfortunately - some people think it is a bad thing, some people think it is a good thing - the decision-making we have. we have made unanimous decisions. i assume that these decisions will also be respected. it's time for responsibility. we are living in a very deep crisis, one that has been dragging on for a long time and which we are trying to overcome step by step. each member of the european council, each country, must take responsibility for its own actions, especially when it comes to implementing decisions taken unanimously. fortunately, on one point, the new emergency fund, the esm, provides for a decision-making procedure such that one country, and in some cases even several countries, cannot block decisions on their own. in any case, i thank you for the discussion we had, in that, unlike other times, we have actually said that we have made progress on a number of points. the great work still lies ahead of us in the deepening of economic and monetary union. but i understand that there can be a very great deal of agreement on the outlines, the building blocks, the building blocks, at least between those who wrote the report and the european parliament. but you know, we live in a community, in a union of 27. we must all agree on this. this requires effort and also implies that a step-by-step approach is the only way forward, whether one likes to hear it or not. but i regard the last european council on thursday and friday, as i have said, as a step in the right direction. i thank all those who have acknowledged that with me this morning.
i would like to thank mr van rompuy. perhaps i should make a comment, since you are still here, and i think it is a great honour that you are here to announce that you will be working closely with the european parliament on the follow-up to the proposal that you have put forward as president of the four institutions. i have two things to say about this house. firstly, it was a mistake not to invite the european parliament in the first place. secondly, the european parliament has more legitimacy to speak for the future of europe than the european central bank. i therefore assume that the president of the european parliament will be invited to the future work on an equal footing. as we work at the working level, we can vote with each other, but i tell you, not for myself personally, but for this house, that it is not acceptable that there should be two different types of european institutions: those who sit there and us. we are the key european institution and that is why i am asking you, on behalf of this house, to invite me to take part in this work.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i believe that the summit was a balanced outcome. it has maintained the principle of control and accountability in its short, medium and long-term measures, it is moving towards solving the crisis, controlling the crisis and it has also sent a clear political signal that this european union will stick together and will not be torn apart by the crisis. that's the most important clue. that is why i think it is good that we are now, for example, making a banking union, and i expect that the commission will present a legislative proposal for this very quickly, and that this will also be linked to a more flexible use of the european stability mechanism. but both are part of a certain context. we must make it clear that this is not just a sovereign debt crisis, but a financial crisis that has driven states into debt. this too must be made clear, with particular attention to the financial sector and its regulation. mr president, i believe that the paper that mr van rompuy has presented with mr barroso, mr juncker and mr draghi is going in the right direction in the medium and long term, particularly on the question of institutional development, and i would like to thank mr van rompuy and mr barroso in particular, but also mr juncker, from the european parliament's point of view, for the helpful work they have done. it must be clear that the community method, with the full involvement of the community institutions, will continue to be the decisive factor. it must be made clear that the crisis must not lead to an institutional division of the european union between the 17 on the one hand and the rest on the other. it must be clear that the european parliament is the parliamentary assembly at european level and that the national parliaments and the european parliament are always strengthened at their respective levels. i also thank you for the explicit reference to the fact that cooperation between national parliaments and the european parliament is based on protocol 1 of the lisbon treaty. that is the appropriate line, and that is a good basis for it. i would like to thank you again for your cooperation in this matter.
president of the commission. − mr president, regarding the questions put to the commission, let me just clarify some of the points. first of all, the assessment we made of this european council was a balanced one. it represented real progress, but much still has to be done. we should be under no illusions: the crisis is far from over and we need to continue our work. in fact, this european council addressed at the same time short-term measures and a vision for the future, and tried to combine the need for stability with growth. it is false to say that the conclusions are only one-way. in fact, there was also strong emphasis on the need for reform for competitiveness. at the same time there was recognition of the need for solidarity. it is in this context that we should analyse the results of this european council. regarding growth, as the commission has been stating, we need to combine structural reforms at national and european level with investment, and a package for investment was thus approved. this was the maximum the member states could agree on at this stage. regarding the structural funds relocation, let me state that eur 20 billion has already been reprogrammed, and a further eur 55 billion will be devoted to growth-enhancing measures in the current financial period. in response to some of the questions, i would like to say that it is now critically important that all the governments stick to the agreements once they have been made, and ensure that they are fully and swiftly implemented. we will strongly emphasise the need to respect agreements and to implement them. i would like to reassure this parliament by telling you that the commission is determined to come up with proposals very soon. but let me remind you that a number of very important proposals are already on the table. these include proposals on key elements of the banking union, deposit guarantees and resolution mechanisms for example. we now hope that, with the stronger consensus we saw in the european council, we can even go further and reinforce those proposals. regarding the issues of the commission proposals, let us be clear; i have to disappoint some of you. the simple fact that the commission makes proposals does not in itself lead to quick agreements. maybe this is because there are too many political forces which say one thing in strasbourg and something else in the capitals of our member states. (applause)so, when we are concerned, as some of you expressed the concern today that governments go to brussels and say one thing, then go back to their capitals and say something different, it is also very important that political parties do not say one thing in strasbourg and then say a different thing in their capitals. (applause)one important and interesting point was made by the british conservatives today, and some kind of satisfaction was expressed with the situation in the euro area. i would like to tell the conservatives that it is puzzling that you seem to delight in the difficulties of the euro area. this is in stark contrast to the position taken by your leader, prime minister cameron. (applause)it would be good in terms of accountability to your public for you to say the same thing here that you say in london. the reality is that there is now a consensus, that includes those states outside the euro area, on the need to strengthen the euro area. it would be a mistake, a complete mistake, to try to divide the euro area from the rest of the european union. i am also very puzzled at the ease with which some of you recommend that some member states should leave the euro. once again, this is in complete contrast to the position taken by the british prime minister, who explicitly said at the g8 summit in camp david, for instance, that it was in his national interest that greece stays in the euro area. so it is very important that we agree on a common approach for the european union, including countries both inside and outside the euro area. some of you are suggesting that europe’s current economic problems are the result of the euro area, and that, for instance, you disapprove of the big bailout programmes in the banking sector in the euro area. let me just put the facts straight. the country that has spent the most money by far on its banking sector is britain, more than any other country in the european union. let me give you the figures. since 2008 the united kingdom has committed eur 82.9 billion – equivalent to almost 4.9% of gdp – in recapitalisation measures. in asset relief interventions alone it has committed eur 40.41 billion – equivalent to 2.38% of gdp – and eur 158 billion in guarantees, more than 9% of the british gdp. so the country in the european union that has committed by far the most taxpayers’ money to save its financial sector has been britain. this is not a specific euro area problem; this is a problem that affects the european union as a whole. (loud applause)and then i come to my final point: we either solve this together, and we win together, or we will all be defeated together. my final point is this: i did not at all like the atmosphere following the last european council when i saw some claiming victory over the others. this is not the way to do things in europe: either we win together or we will be defeated together. what we need is a strong european team. it is true that there are in europe different financial cultures, different perceptions and different sensitivities. but let us be honest, sometimes this is not a matter of differences between the north and the south – sometimes you find these differences in the very same country. but i am worried when i see some people speaking about the north and the south, making some kind of easy generalisations, because those of us who know european history know how negative a role was played by prejudice and the superiority complex of one part of europe over the other. (applause)all the countries of europe – and some of us have been countries for many, many centuries – have had the greatest moments of glory and very dark moments in our history. we should be humble when we speak about history. and we should not forget that the european project was made precisely to avoid the divisions of the past and the demons that existed in european history. that is why i do not like it when i see heads of government coming out of a european council and saying that they won against the others. this is exactly the wrong message. this is precisely the road to defeat. the message that we together – the european institutions, the commission and the european parliament – have to send is that we are in this together, and together we will be able to overcome this crisis. (loud and sustained applause)
unfortunately, the debate is over, but in view of the very large support for your words, mr barroso, i would like you to address the council with this clarity and not always have this division, here you are clear, and in brussels, when the heads of state and government meet, you remain vague. (applause from the centre and the right)
that was ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) ladies and gentlemen, mr cohn-bendit, can you hold on a second? mrs harms, first of all, this was not a point of order, but a personal remark. secondly , i want to tell you something . i attended the last and the penultimate european council, and mr barroso said exactly what he said here at the european council. (applause from the centre) i think i can claim that in the past i have not always been the friendliest interlocutor of mr barroso. but i want to tell you that as president of this house, i have no stronger ally in the european institutions than mr barroso at the moment. i sometimes wish that the rapporteur who was here before would support our concerns with the same intensity as the president of the commission does. (applause from the centre) the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 4 july 2012.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a favor to ask. could you ask the president of the commission to provide us with the figures he has given on the united kingdom in writing so that we can continue to use them?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too have agreed to this report because it is logical that a common internal market should include a railway reform. i would like to make just two comments. the first is that it is of course important to network the national regulatory authorities and to create a european regulatory authority. i would just like to point out that it does not have to look like we are setting up new authorities, but we can simply network existing authorities better. because we have enough authorities. secondly, i would like to point out - as my predecessor has already emphasized - that we should take the common market seriously, and we should also take seriously the fact that railways can operate across national borders. and we should finally start to break down the false barriers. the railways are often subject to technical standards, and the railways - and therefore goods and citizens - are not able to move as freely as they should.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have struggled with myself for a long time on how to vote on this proposal, but i have finally abstained because i understand the sentiment that drivers should observe driving and rest periods. i am also aware that this must be done at eu level and that there must be no distortion of competition. but the other side of the coin is that i am concerned with proportionality and practicality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and it is precisely this second aspect which, in my view, has been left out of the report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. they don't need a ticket-taker, they don't need proof, they just want to do something. and they should be able to do so in the future, so that they can continue to secure jobs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a small village in franconia is known for its good beer! this rhyme highlights a little problem we've created for ourselves today. because if that brewery or that liquor store is 107 kilometers from where i live, i have no chance of having him continue to offer me his goods in the future without having to buy a new tachograph, without having to have a new bureaucracy. and that is why i voted against it, against this resolution today, because i believe that we should not put too much pressure on our small and mediumsized businesses! there were a lot of points that we got into that were positive. the plan was to accept only 50 kilometres within the perimeter of a regional operator. that was a completely absurd thing to do by the commission. so 100 kilometres is still possible. but what if it goes beyond that? well, i think it's a little much. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. why would you do that? because, for example, the one who offers his goods for the construction or for the drinks for the breweries, is completely controlled by gps for the entire working day. i therefore consider that, for reasons of data protection, what we have decided today is highly questionable and i would like to stress again why i voted against it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as one of the few people in this room who has been a lorry driver myself, although my colleague mr higgins has done a good job, i have voted against it today, mainly because of two points. firstly, because parliament voted in favour of amendment no 134, which reduced the tonnage limit for vehicles from 3.5 tonnes to 2.8 tonnes. i think that's unnecessary, that was not necessary. i voted against it at the end, mainly because amendment no 129 was rejected. the request was for the radius for derogation to be extended to 150 kilometres. i'm from the upper palatinate. munich is 80 miles away. my craftsmen work a lot in munich, they have to install tachographs now because they have work in munich. i was particularly annoyed that my only colleague from upper palatinate, ismail ertug, voted against the interests of the upper palatinate craftsmen on these two points. i very much hope that this can be corrected at the second reading, so that the handicraftsmen in areas far from the market are not disadvantaged either.
in writing. the report is now somewhat usable after the vote on the second reading. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the railway sector is not left to the mercy of the market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the price of road transport services is not affected by the price of goods and services. the question of mixed transport on the railways should also be given due consideration. my greatest hope is that rail transport will become faster, more efficient and cheaper for citizens.
in writing. the report on digital tachographs in lorries is generally welcome. however, i believe that the principles of the directive should apply only to lorries (i.e. above 3.5 tonnes empty weight). secondly, the directive should not apply to craftsmen who carry material only occasionally, because it is not designed for them but for professional transporters. finally, this also applies to a number of craftsmen working on construction sites, but in particular certain transports (such as the transport of perishable goods such as milk, foodstuffs or concrete) must be subject to a special regime.
in writing. - i rejected the report because it does not sufficiently liberate the marginalised groups covered by this directive. the idea was to free up the circles for whom driving is not their main occupation, but who travel to the workplace with materials or staff. the present system places them at too great a disadvantage. since these are mainly small and medium-sized craft enterprises, one of the most important sources of value added in germany is once again overburdened. i can only strongly object to such a course of action.
in writing. − i think we can all agree that water is a common resource of humanity and a public good. access to water is therefore a fundamental right that should apply to everyone. water is not a source of profit! for these reasons, i welcome the new measures to reduce water consumption in the eu. i would just like to point out that the application and enforcement of the water framework directive is a problem in some member states. we should therefore first insist on the consistent implementation of these regulations before we start thinking of new ones. the new rules must also be practical, i.e. - as the rapporteur has already requested - adapted to the situation in the member states and also meet the needs of the sectors concerned, such as agriculture.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report, and the rapporteur, mr seeber, has worked very thoroughly and carefully. reducing freshwater consumption is an important european objective and is to be achieved through a number of measures. water scarcity is already a problem in many member states and must be taken seriously. equally important is the connection of the entire european population to a functioning waste water system.
in writing. − i too welcome the fact that we have voted in favour of the mandatory introduction of the ecall electronic emergency call system. if you can save an estimated 2,500 lives a year and reduce the number of serious injuries, then this system must be a good one. but as always, the project must be checked for practicability. is it really possible to activate the system only in the event of a serious accident? what are serious accidents? are the data of the drivers really safe? and, above all, what does it cost to make the emergency call mandatory? i would ask you to think carefully about these and other questions that arise, but i would also like to emphasize once again how much i, as a driver who travels many kilometres by car every week, welcome such a system.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is a political question which we have to decide, and we social democrats have analysed acta very clearly and intensely and say clearly: acta is not a suitable instrument to guarantee copyright protection and to prevent counterfeiting of products. no, acta is a false instrument, and that is why we social democrats will reject the instrument. why would you do that? for three reasons. firstly, countries which are particularly prone to counterfeiting and infringement of copyright are not covered by the acta treaty at all. the good are selected from the bad, and that makes no sense at all internationally. secondly, ladies and gentlemen, rules are being transferred from the analogue sphere of counterfeiting to the digital sphere, and this is the way in which the changed consumer behaviour in the digital sphere is being covered by false rules. so we say, here we can't throw apples and pears into a pot and end up with applesauce. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. but, ladies and gentlemen, the most important reason is the third: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the question of enforcing intellectual property rights in the internet and digital sphere is not yet settled within the european union. the commission is behind schedule with the presentation of a legislative proposal. how can we conclude an international agreement on this matter if we have not even considered the legislative proposal and made sensible legislation within the european union itself? so let us put acta ad acta and first make some sensible european legislation. i call on the commission to put forward a legislative proposal for the european union. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. here you're mixing apples with pears again. clearly, climate policy is not the same as copyright. you know very well that 60% of all counterfeit products come from china, and that is why it is indeed necessary to enter into a dialogue with china in the international community in order to find a solution, and not to make a selection into good and bad countries, mr fjellner.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's good that tomorrow, when acta is rejected, there can be an open and transparent debate about how to enforce intellectual property and intellectual property rights, no matter where and no matter if it happens in the analogue or the digital world. it is good that we finally have clarity that acta will not come so politically that acta and its enforcement in a coalition of willing states from a few industrialized countries was the wrong way. i think it is also right, commissioner de gucht, if you then admit and fully respect that the opinion of the european parliament is: this is not the way to go! we sat here together over two years ago and i made it very clear to you, i warned you that you would again be voted no to an international agreement in this parliament if you did not respond to the questions and demands of the european parliament. what you have done is that you have hesitated, that you have ignored us, that you have misinformed us, and that in the negotiations you have simply widened the scope for interpreting what is in this agreement and have left out the specific statements, which now leads to a considerable uncertainty in interpretation. that is not possible and that is disproportionate, and that is why it is good that tomorrow we vote against this agreement. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
question for the commissioner: mr albrecht, you said that acta was the wrong way to go and that you could have imagined a different way. i think we would all have preferred to have gone the multilateral route, but the reality is that the chinese, the indians and others in the last decades in the wto and also in the world intellectual property organization have always rejected such an agreement. i would like to ask you, mr president, what is the nature of such a multilateral approach, in which, unfortunately, china and india do not want to participate at all? is it just an alibi you're asking for, or do you have any real ideas?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. thank you very much, mr caspary, for your comments. of course, i do believe that there are ways of guaranteeing the enforcement of product and trademark rights internationally. i think it's really important to understand why developing and emerging countries have refused for so long to engage in international organizations -- in the wto, in the wipo -- and maybe to think about exceptions for generics or even technology transfer, because it's not a one-sided story to agree on international rules. the significant problem here is that the very purpose of fighting product and brand piracy has been supplemented by a bunch of copyright infringements, the internet and other stories that - as mr lange said - have nothing to do with this purpose and can be enforced by international community.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the citizens of europe have been debating acta for months, as have we in this house. they came to the conclusion that they don't need acta and they don't want acta. they are concerned that acta is a threat to their freedom in the digital world, and they are concerned about issues of central data protection. in this debate, we learned that the internet has added a new dimension to democracy and our lives. this is an important moment for the functioning of democracy in the european union, particularly in these weeks and months. the citizens place all their hopes in the european parliament to defend their interests against the european commission, which, commissioner, negotiated this agreement for six years with a mandate from the european council. we have been pushing for transparency here for two years. we have brought the secret acta negotiations to light, and we have succeeded. and now, we should not postpone this debate, we must make a decision. we do not need to wait for the ecj, because it is the content of this agreement that is at stake, as my colleagues have already said. we decide now! but, ladies and gentlemen, this is a whole other dimension. we all have to make a change together. we live in a time when the practices of handling information and knowledge are increasingly moving away from the concept of private property. we must develop new forms of access and use of content which are consistent with a culture of the right to access and use. understanding this must begin in school. this is the substance of the debate on acta. this is also the subject of the debate on the future development of patents, copyright, international trade and economic cooperation in a multilaterally networked world. we must also discuss and agree on this multilaterally, in the wipo, together with china, brazil and many others. commissioner de gucht, i think you have not really appreciated the revolutionary impact of the internet and have not opened up. with acta, you've continued the approach of defending a business model from the past, when most people still went to a store to buy records. the big money was made mainly by big non-european companies like sony, who treat artists as if they own people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i hope that tomorrow's vote will be a good moment for democracy and for the importance of the european parliament, and that we will really put acta to the test in that sense.
i have to say, madam president, what's the problem with acta and this vote today? we have millions of consumers in europe who are having problems with counterfeit products, we have tens of thousands of jobs that have already been lost, and the majority in this house is about to reject this acta. we as the epp have always said that we want to give acta serious consideration, and we have also always said that we are only in favour of acta if it is valid, for a european in europe nothing changes. that is still true today. and i would advise all colleagues to look again at the two legal opinions of our independent parliamentary legal service, which in my view is very clear on acta. the epp also attaches particular importance to the freedom of the internet. the fact that we are really fighting for freedom every day in this house was made clear yesterday afternoon when the agenda of this plenary session was discussed and the groups which are now supposedly fighting for freedom in acta spoke out against a debate on the violations of the constitution and the intolerable situation in romania. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east. i wish you were more consistent and more coherent in your position here! my concern in this acta debate is how we deal with each other in an open democracy. i welcome the broad public debate which we should have had earlier and which would be important on other subjects. i am very pleased to see the enormous commitment of the younger generation, who have shown an incredible interest and commitment to the issue. but what is intolerable is that part of it was the disinformation campaign of some opponents, especially at the beginning of the acta debate. that anonymous video, inventing some untruths and putting them on the internet, is still in all of our minds. that was an attack on democracy! and that is why i hope that we will treat each other seriously here, especially when i see today again a press release from the socialists, from mr swoboda, who accuses us of lack of transparency, of trickery. firstly, we have never asked for a secret ballot - neither in committee nor here! we have always said that we are in favour of postponement so that the ecj has more time, so that the commission has time to do its homework. but it was the socialist and liberal group colleagues who came to me personally and said that we were in favour of acta, that there was enormous pressure on us in the group, please help us! and yet we did not ask for a secret ballot! (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) we have always been transparent about our desire to keep acta alive. we want to cure acta, to improve it, not to kill it. it is your group that is imposing a group rule and not allowing free voting in committee and here in the house. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to remain democratic and to open the voting in your group so that every member of this house can vote according to his convictions tomorrow. (applause from the centre) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question for the commissioner: mr caspary, i had to interact with you again because i'm getting a little nervous about why we're waiting for the european court of justice. i wonder, mr de gucht, where you were when we greens asked here a year and a half ago that the compatibility of the acta agreement - and i have repeatedly told you that, mr de gucht - be reviewed by the european court of justice. we would then have had an opinion and a result from the european court of justice today, the day before the vote. this is an absolute double standard that you are displaying here, and it is nothing more than - as mr leichtfried has already said - a mere delay and postponement because you do not want the acta agreement to be rejected because it is politically incorrect. (applause from the centre)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i would like to thank you for your support. all in good time! first of all, we have our own methods, we have our parliamentary legal service, which has made a clear statement on acta. it is not a question of whether it is right or wrong that the commission has gone to the ecj, but that it is there, and it is a question of respect for other institutions, of being open to their opinions. and secondly, our group has never said that we are not in favour of acta. we have always said - last time in april at a major press conference - that we too want to clarify things once again. and unfortunately the commission has indicated its willingness to make these improvements much too late, only on the wednesday evening before the vote in committee. then the question is: when a patient comes to the hospital with a mild cold, he is entitled to a proper diagnosis, and after that he is entitled to be cured and not killed immediately. we want to cure acta, not kill it, and that's the political difference between us. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i think that is a very good point. we have, for example, adopted by a large majority in parliament today the report by mr creutzmann on the strengthening of intellectual property rights at our european borders. the fact that we in the european union need to reform intellectual property is precisely what we agree on across the political groups. this is why we should not reject acta tomorrow, but postpone the vote until the ecj has made its decision, until the commission has done its homework and until we have reformed intellectual property in europe together with the other institutions. that's why we're postponing it. and then in two years, when all this is done, we can look at it calmly and see whether you, perhaps together with us, reject or accept acta. but please, not tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. this afternoon everything has been said and the opposite of everything has been said. in fact, this debate continues the confusion of the last few months. we've had a lot of things in the last few months, from the idea of waving acta through here as soon as possible, to waiting for a court decision, to now: please reject it quickly. it's always coming from different sides of the house. and we have to say that during the acta negotiations over the last few years, a lot of things have gone wrong, as has been pointed out here more than once. however, there are good elements to acta. and just as fundamentally, as a continent with almost no raw materials, we need to be able to protect our creativity and our innovation. we must ensure that there are fair customs measures, fair compensation actions. of course, it has been said here that the countries which are involved in counterfeiting are not taking part. that's right, i did. but if we have been talking, for example, in the last week about the need for greater transatlantic cooperation, let us start here! let's send the signal in this globalized world that the internet is not a free space, and we want to protect our intellectual property the others will follow us! the signal we are sending with a no is devastating, even if acta is not satisfactory at all! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question for the commissioner: dear mrs quisthoudt-rowohl, i have a question about the statement that the internet is not a law-free area. would you perhaps agree with me that even now there are laws on the internet and that we already have rules on intellectual property? and that the same could be said about the internet, which of course cannot be a space free of fundamental rights? and that the question of cooperation cannot be pursued unilaterally, but that on the other hand there must also be international common standards for the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. this is not about having the perfect system. it's about taking the first step. i am already of the opinion that we must agree to this step. and let us have different political views in this house. if we are to make a political decision, it can be assessed differently by the left, the right, the centre. that's the tolerance we should have. we can discuss everything else in private.
acta is not helping to fight dangerously counterfeit and manipulated medicine, because acta doesn't look at the contents of the pill, it only looks at the packaging. instead, acta makes it harder to access effective generic medicines. people whose lives and health depend on affordable generic drugs were not asked whether they wanted to approve acta or not. if we take the interests of these people into account in the vote tomorrow, then there can only be one way, and that is to reject acta.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. acta must be taken off the table, and i am glad that the debate here in parliament is moving in that direction. acta is an attack on fundamental rights such as privacy, freedom of information and communication, and the right to informational self-determination. it is the abundance of vague legal concepts that opens the door. it threatens to abolish legal protection and the rule of law. there are legitimate concerns that providers are being pressured to monitor, block and filter content. the end result could be a privatization of law enforcement, and the providers will be made deputy sheriffs. the protection of individual copyrights must in no case lead to the erosion of freedom of information and communication. yes, we need a modern copyright law that strikes a reasonable balance between the interests of authors and users. i would be glad if the commission would finally put a proposal on the table. acta is not helping us in any way, but is pushing us in a very specific direction! that's why we're voting no to acta tomorrow.
another reality is that we have 16 catch-the-eye requests, each one of one minute. we're not gonna be able to work this out. i am therefore making myself equally unpopular with everyone, and we will do it in the following way: one or one from each group and from the two largest groups - this is due to the proportion - two each. catch the eye
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too do not think that the acta text is acceptable. but i want to point out that this is not the end of the debate about the future of intellectual property in the digital world. there's a problem with piracy, and file sharing is very beneficial to users, but not to the same extent to the creators. so the new business models that we have and that are being called for all the time, like itunes, spotify, simfy, which are based, of course, on copyright and on copyright, are no argument against it. and the argument that public libraries are so great and that we need access to knowledge and culture, of course, yes, that's right. but public libraries are tax-funded, and the authors are compensated. we also need to find new models for easy access to culture and knowledge in the digital world. but there must be fair solutions for the authors if we are not to destroy cultural diversity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is not a question of individual facts that we have to discuss here, but of the fundamental question: what is our attitude to democracy and the right to freedom? and if we look at acta, we see that it is, in a way, symbolic of the lack of transparency, the lack of democracy, the violation of fundamental rights, because it was framed in secret and it came into being undemocratically, because the free use of the internet could not be possible any more, nor could the freedom to use generic drugs to the extent that it has been possible. these are the reasons why millions of people took to the streets and voted for acta long ago. yes, acta has been voted on, on the streets, on the internet, in relation to the committee on petitions, in many countries not only in the eu, but also outside the eu! and i think we must not ignore this vote, which is a vote of direct democracy by the many citizens who voted for us. i can only tell you, put acta on the record that would be decent.
ladies and gentlemen, as promised, i'm not exactly making myself popular, but the catch-the-eye process is over. for your information, we have had nine of the 16 speakers from all the groups speak. the only thing that is not negotiable is our timetable for this debate. i ask for your understanding. (end of the 'catch-the-eye' procedure)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. as a green member of the itre committee, i disagree with many of my colleagues on the proposed funding for iter. as rapporteur for the itre committee, i can tell you that we are in full agreement on the principle that the budget should reflect the priorities of the eu 2020 strategy. the committee on budgets has already taken a number of decisions on this matter. energy policy, and in particular the set plan, are at the centre of the agenda, with research and innovation as priorities, as well as support for small and medium-sized enterprises.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to welcome you, commissioner. the draft budget for 2013 contains almost eur 150 billion in commitment appropriations alone. these commitments are directly linked to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and increase by 2.7% to a total of eur 64.5 billion. in particular, appropriations for heading i sustainable growth will increase by 3.5%. the key programmes in the areas of growth and investment, small and medium-sized enterprises, employment and youth and new initiatives - such as the planned pilot phase for project bonds in the transport, energy and ict sectors - are intended to help address liquidity problems and thus promote investment and growth, which europe needs more than ever in these times. if we look at the payments in the draft budget, they amount to a total of 138 billion euros. in the last year of the current financial framework, the draft budget provides for an increase in payment appropriations compared to 2012, with a significant increase in the area of the research framework programme (around 28%), and in the structural and cohesion funds (around 12%). these correspond exactly to the estimated payment requests of the public and private partners carrying out projects in these areas. the proposed increase in the overall level of payment appropriations, namely 6.8%, is the result and necessary consequence of the union's contractual commitments to enable all major programmes to be implemented and to take account of the commitments still to be settled for the current year and previous years, i.e. responsible and full budgets. we also set priorities: the ict policy support programme will build on the increased uptake and best use of these technologies in 2013, in line with the digital agenda for europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. moreover, we would save considerable sums of money if we were to hold this debate in brussels rather than in strasbourg.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission president, barroso, had said this morning in his speech to the summit that the european budget is the key instrument for sustainable growth. i agree with that - commissioner lewandowski has just emphasized that - and in these times it is not unimportant to emphasize once again that the way we advise the budget is part of the community method. we in parliament must take part in the decision-making process with the council, and only if we agree will there be a common budget. then, at the summit last week, the council decided that an additional 55 billion euros should now be mobilised quickly from the structural funds in order to finally provide the necessary stimulus for the consolidation policy, in key areas: education, research, sustainable energy, renewable energies - all objectives which we can also share from a green point of view. what the council has failed to do is to explain where this money is to come from in the short term. i would like to support what the previous speakers have said: the council remains in complete political schizophrenia if, on the one hand, it calls for this growth pact, but on the other hand, it is not prepared to increase payments to the budget both for this year and for 2013. it is true that, according to the member states' reports, the commission's estimates were rather cautious. on the other hand, they are based on the fact that contracts must be respected. that is why my clear appeal to the council and to the cypriot presidency is this: negotiate with courage, be courageously european and ensure that the necessary payments are made now. otherwise we would be deceiving the european citizens with what the council has decided.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to pay particular attention today to the subject of agencies. i noticed that the agencies do not have any concrete priorities in terms of funding in 2013, nor in the multiannual financial planning between 2014 and 2020. i will give you a few examples: we have the new supervisory agencies, the eba, the eiopa and the esma. if these agencies are to really do the job that we have just had to deal with again this weekend, then they will have to be equipped to actually do the job, otherwise all the plans we have will ultimately be unrealizable. i will give a second example: europol. europol has a very careful form of budgetary management. europol had particularly high transfers in 2011 as programmes started later. it is simply not possible that europol should now be fined 10% minus and at the same time be required to set up a cybercrime centre with these funds. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european agency for the development of vocational training.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i can fully endorse what mr moreira has said here and therefore do not need to repeat much. the foreign affairs committee considers the agreement to be useful and believes that it should enter into force if certain questions are answered in the affirmative. we also think that it makes sense to have a provision that when you trade in products that are vital to life, you test them before they are delivered and certified, and then there is mutual recognition. this is an activity that saves a lot of money and promotes competitiveness on both sides. that should be supported accordingly. as i said, if certain questions are answered, we recommend that the inta committee propose approval of the treaty in plenary. the explanations given by mr moreira are ultimately concerned with the question of the scope of this treaty and what is meant by article 9 of the protocol. does this mean that it also applies to the territories outside the 1967 borders? are products coming from the west bank or east jerusalem covered by this protocol when they are certified as coming from the settlements? or do the products that come from palestinians have the same chances of being certified and therefore no trade disadvantages? we would like an answer here. there are certain doubts whether this is legally settled. the legal service of the european parliament has said that this could be done by a unilateral declaration from the commission. then we're done with this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. commissioner, i have finished my speech.
member of the commission. − madam president, thank you for the opportunity to clarify outstanding issues regarding the agreement on conformity assessment and acceptance (acaa) between israel and the eu. let me start by recalling what an acaa is about. its objective is to eliminate barriers to trade, through allowing products covered by the agreement to enter the markets of the parties without additional conformity assessment procedures, resulting in mutual recognition of conformity assessment and inspection results, which will reduce costs and time for economic operators. this is typically a response to technical barriers to trade. the commission considers that the current acaa text is compliant with the lisbon treaty and international law and that no change or renegotiation is necessary. the commission would like to provide the following assurances to the parliament: first, the acaa is a protocol to the eu-israel association agreement. therefore, while not defining it, its scope of application is the same as set out in article 83 of the association agreement. as it results from international obligations of the eu and as confirmed by the european court of justice in 2010 in the brita case, the eu does not recognise israeli jurisdiction over the territories placed under israeli administration after 1967. the commission will observe this position in the implementation of the acaa. secondly, when the agreement enters into force, the commission will have to acknowledge under article 9 of the acaa the responsible israeli authority which will have to deliver conformity certificates. this acknowledgement will not entail any recognition of israeli jurisdiction over territories placed under israeli administration after 1967. you can also rest assured that, upon receipt of the israeli notification of its responsible authority, the commission will expressly state that acknowledgement is granted only on the basis that the territory covered by the responsible authority does not include the territories brought under israeli administration in 1967. separately, i would like to recall that the acaas are not based on the product origin but on mutual trust in the quality of the certification and inspection bodies. acaas recognise that certifiers in third countries certify industrial products in the same way as in eu member states. in practice, the eu will recognise whatever product is certified by israel, whatever its origin, israeli or not. for practical reasons, and for reasons of compliance with wto’s non-discrimination rules, these agreements cannot discriminate or exclude on the basis of origin. this is also in line with the eu acquis. these rules also apply under the acaa to the israeli responsible authority, which could – under certain conditions – certify not only israeli products but also those from third countries once the acaa is in force. in the same vein, israeli and eu member state responsible authorities could also certify products from the occupied territories. however, as stated before, this does not and cannot imply any recognition of israel’s jurisdiction over these territories. according to information received from israeli authorities and ngos, there is currently no pharmaceutical production in israeli settlements. therefore, israel cannot discriminate against palestinian products in the certification process because israel will have to apply the eu acquis. like any eu member state, israel must carry out inspections irrespective of the origin of the product when a request is received. if there were cases of discrimination, the palestinian manufacturer could lodge a complaint with the israeli judicial authorities. of course, the commission could also use existing means under the association agreement to ensure that israel implements the acaa. turning to the 2005 technical arrangement which allows the eu to identify and deny preferential treatment under the association agreement to goods produced in areas beyond israel’s pre-1967 borders, it must be recalled that preferential treatment in terms of customs tariffs is an entirely different issue to conformity assessment and that the origin of the product fully keeps its relevance when the certified product is to enter the territory of the eu. there have been cases of abuse, which have been detected and tackled appropriately, but they are few and insignificant in volume of trade. the commission is presently working on a modification of the system, including the publication of a list of settlement codes, which will increase awareness of eu importers and will allow customs authorities to verify these declarations more effectively. finally, the foreign affairs council on 14 may held a substantive discussion on the middle east peace process and agreed, inter alia, that the eu will assess whether existing legislation, in particular in the areas of labelling, is being fully and effectively implemented.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank you very much for your very clear statement. i think that from my perspective, this answers the questions that have driven us to the core. i would be delighted if we could finally make progress on this dossier. if we consider how long this dossier has been before us in parliament - an additional protocol to the association agreement - i am really concerned about whether this is appropriate. we had to deal with this dossier at the same time as a trade agreement with the palestinian territories. what i regret very much is that we often have a double standard here in the house, that on the one hand we rightly put enormous pressure on the house and said that we wanted the law to be respected here and that our political objectives should be respected here, but that we let the agreement with the palestinian territories pass with a large majority in parliament months ago, even though there are still death sentences being carried out and the like. i am quite frank in saying that i would like to see a lot more coherent voting and reasoning between the groups! i think, commissioner, that this is not serious after the heated debate this afternoon. i can only see one thing which could prevent us from agreeing to this agreement. so my question is: can you rule out that this additional protocol will force isps to control data, or that three strikes will be introduced through the back door, or that it will in any way restrict freedom of speech on the internet or in romania? i would be very grateful if you could answer that.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner barnier, you are right. on our agenda this week is a legislative own-initiative report on access to basic accounts. parliament makes clear and detailed proposals as to what it thinks a commission legislative initiative could and should look like. the first clear proposal concerns the timetable. a very large majority in the committee in charge, in econ, is of the opinion that we should not and cannot waste any more time on this subject. we therefore call on the commission to submit a legislative proposal to parliament by january 2013. i think we are quite on the same page as mr barnier. we believe that the eu must enable the 30 million citizens who have no bank account to integrate into normal economic life. without an account, the obvious quickly becomes an insoluble problem. the renting of a flat, access to energy or integration into a modern working world: without a bank account, this is hardly possible in most countries. we believe that all this must not fail to maximise the returns of banking institutions. in the words of the report, banks also have a responsibility to society. we shall only achieve a functioning social market economy, a modern internal market, if this responsibility is actually exercised. but let 's face it . many citizens no longer trust the eu to achieve these goals. when the going gets tough - as in the current crisis - many things remain just words for the majority of citizens. they see, above all, that the eu is supporting the banks with large bailouts, and many citizens feel left out in the cold. this is the impression that is being given to more and more citizens in more and more countries of the european union. the report on which we are voting tomorrow was not originally intended as an own-initiative report. if the commission, in its majority, had stuck to its own plans, we could have presented the citizens with the result of the negotiations today. the european consumer right to an account could then be on its way or even a reality. we think that the commission's recommendation to the member states has so far produced a disappointing result. some of the responses received from the member states to the request, to the commission's country reports, are more like satire than a sensible and citizen-friendly policy. to understand this, let us consider the following: we are dealing with the issue of access to accounts with social interests, which is normal. these are interests that could hardly be more different in their possibilities of influence. politics must therefore organise a fair and socially desirable balance of interests. that is our responsibility as politicians, as members of this parliament. i cannot go into all the points in the report here, but i will briefly mention and comment on a few of the points which i consider to be central. cost: a basic account should be offered free of charge or at least at a low cost. that's what the report says. to ensure this, member states should set a binding ceiling. the commission should also consider what an eu-wide ceiling for fees for a basic account might look like. without a clear cost structure, we cannot reach our target group. access is another point. the bureaucratic hurdles for consumers who rely on a basic account must be kept to a minimum. financial exclusion goes hand in hand with social exclusion. subsidiarity is another point. a directive could take account of national specificities. while all banks should be covered by the directive, we believe that member states are best placed to define possible exceptions. i would like to conclude by thanking the negotiating team, the econ leadership and the committee on the internal market, as well as commissioner barnier, with whom we have had a very good and constructive cooperation. this has certainly contributed greatly to the success of the report.
adopted on 13december.the commission has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the council's opinion on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1612/1999 on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men andwomen in matters of social security. - mr president, i have to say something. the disappointment was great, mr barnier, when contrary to what was announced in the 2011 work programme there was no legislative proposal but only a recommendation to the member states. i therefore very much welcome the fact that you are showing your willingness to come here today to table a legislative proposal by the autumn at the latest. because we know that appeals simply don't work. and 30 million citizens are waiting to actually get access to a basic account so that they can do the basic things that we need in today's society. 30 million citizens - seasonal workers, people who earn little, the homeless, students - all of these people have a right to a bank account. we must ensure that they get this, too. this basic account must also be cheap. it is not possible that these people will be excluded because of the prize, or because they have no address, or for any other reason that is being put forward again and again. we have to make sure, we have to make sure that this right comes, because we cannot accept that there are first-class and second-class people in our society. that is why i very much hope that you will be able to convince your college very quickly. we will help you, mr barnier, to ensure that the member states also agree in the end, because this is really about fundamental rights.
member of the commission. - mr president, thank you all for your questions and, above all, for your encouragement and support for this idea, which mr klute has well illustrated in his report. mrs swinburne and mr schmidt raised a point which i should like to make. there is no intention of excluding establishments which already cater for this type of public. this is the principle of access that we want to set. we do not appoint beneficiaries. so this point must be clear. i would like to thank mrs gebhardt, mr ludvigsson, mr tarabella and mr daerden for their support and encouragement. yes, it is a question of having a real banking service for the 7% of the population who are excluded from it, that is to say, real services, a real guarantee of access for all citizens who live legally in the union and also very low costs, to respond to the concern that mrs băsescu has just mentioned. i agree with mr mitchell and mr de backer on the link between this basic bank account and everything that happens in the electronic single market, not just for the payment of wages but for all electronic commerce activities. we are also discussing this issue in the green paper on electronic payments, which deals with the ways in which we will propose, at about the same time, in the autumn, to develop safe, efficient and cheap payments. this can only work if all citizens of the union, and not just 93% of them, have a basic bank account. mrs gebhardt and mrs turunen stressed that we had gone through the recommendation stage, which i think was too long for them, but which nevertheless took place in a limited time. i am not forgetting that some states, such as belgium or italy and others, have acted, but it is clear that for many other states a binding legislative act is needed. that's what i'm going to propose in a few weeks. we are very determined and very firm in our intention to offer this access to the basic bank account. mr sanchez presedo, who is well acquainted with these consumer concerns, since he is the rapporteur for the text on mortgage credit, mr stolojan, just now, referred to economic and social conditions, mrs prendergast to equity. all these ideas are being put forward in this proposal to make the internal market, in all its aspects, particularly financial, more equitable and more humane. in fact, i can assure you that we are not going to stop there. in the autumn, i will deal with the question of transparency of bank charges, which this time concerns all customers and all citizens, through a legislative text. the question of banking mobility is also raised. these three points, together with the basic bank account, will be dealt with in this last package on consumer protection, and in particular that of the most vulnerable citizens in our society.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank you once again for your support for the report. that's been made very clear. commissioner, you have heard that this initiative has a wide support in this parliament. i think it is really time for the commission to do something. we all know that you are very committed to this, and no one doubts your commitment, but we also know that there is some opposition to this in the commission. so please take what you have heard here to your college and you can be sure that you will have broad support from us in this endeavour. i am sure that there are some details which will have to be discussed, but i have had the experience in the compromise negotiations that we have worked together in a very constructive way beyond the group boundaries. i am sure that we will find solutions to the specific questions that will satisfy everyone. i would like to conclude by saying that i look forward to further cooperation on this subject.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to say that we in alde support the amendments. we welcome the fact that this compromise we have found, by maintaining the exceptional stocks of methane that have existed so far, does not lead to any unnecessary reduction in payments to farmers. it is important that we have a clear position in the transitional year. i would also like to make it clear that i welcome the constructive way in which we have worked together here and that i hope that we can make greater use of this constructive work in the future. because it has helped and stumbled so many times in the past with the agrarian reform. i think it is time we looked at the facts, to work together to achieve a proper result for the farmers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are in the middle of the reform process of the common agricultural policy and the european parliament, in its new role as co-legislator, will adopt tomorrow the first regulation text from the reform package on the distribution of direct payments for the transitional year 2013. that's good, and that's something special. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr luis capoulas santos, for his very good and, above all, rapid work. this regulation should enter into force on 1 january 2014 in order to avoid any funding problems in the transition from the current scheme to the next reformed direct payments regulation. it was therefore of particular importance that an agreement between parliament and the council was reached quickly. continuity of funding is crucial for member states, which is why the timely entry into force of the transitional arrangements for 2013 is so important. the current text of the regulation on direct payments will continue to apply in 2013, but some of its financial provisions will only apply until 2012. i welcome the solution reached between parliament and the council, in particular the transfer from the first to the second pillar.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. as with the other two subjects we have just discussed, we must also go into the second reading on organic farming. it is regrettable, but we have had three trilogues and have not really made much progress in substance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have then started negotiations, held preliminary talks with the polish presidency and then negotiated with the danish presidency. finally, we have not made any progress on two points, namely on products and substances, on the criteria for certain products and substances. we couldn't reach an agreement. we have not only relied on our own opinion, but we have also sought the opinion of the legal affairs committee, which states that these two articles are clearly acts falling within the scope of delegated acts. it is about article 290, which is what it is about, and delegated acts are clearly applicable here. it is not a question of how something is regulated, but of making a regulation binding, which is uniformly binding for the whole of the european union. even though we as parliament fully understand that the council naturally wants to be involved - and we have repeatedly stressed this in the negotiations - we do understand this and have also put forward compromise proposals which were going in the right direction, i.e. we said that the experts at national level should be involved. we have proposed that we take the substances to the basic acts, and we also think it is quite understandable that this can be done because there have been only two changes in total in four years. so it's a very workable solution. i would also like to say about this whole procedure - and i can agree with paolo de castro's criticism - that the commission changed its position on the delegated acts during the trilogue and then voted in favour of implementing acts. we have not been able to understand this, and this has led to a great deal of disagreement. then we were offered a vague offer that we would simply be informed if there were any changes. we are not, of course, in a position to conclude that we are merely being informed. we have a right to a delegated act, and we will confirm that with this first reading. we hope that the commission will put forward proposals which are practical and which will then enable us to enter into further negotiations under the cypriot presidency.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not since the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament has been a full co-legislator in the agricultural sector. this fact gives parliament new rights which we will and must take into account. the results of this study are summarised as follows: firstly, we will work to regulate as much as possible in the ordinary, i.e. basic, legal act and to create clear provisions to give farmers the greatest possible planning certainty. secondly, we will work to create flexibility in regulatory cases by means of delegated acts in order not to overburden the basic act. thirdly, we will make it possible, in justified exceptions, to adapt technical details to implementing acts. this means - fourthly and above all - that we will fight to exercise our rights and duties as a democratic institution and co-legislator. i call on the council to abandon its rigid stance and to accept delegated acts in the case of regulations and amendments. this is not a matter of political decisions, but of the competence of parliament.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank you again, commissioner, for the fact that you have shown a great deal of willingness to compromise. i would like to make it clear once again that this is not a matter of parliament's lack of principle, but that it is clearly also a matter of clear rules for the future with which everyone must live, both the commission and the council and parliament. we cannot now find any compromise that will not last beyond the day. we must make sure that we secure the legal framework for the next few years. what is sometimes lacking is simply confidence in the institutions and perhaps also confidence on the part of the council in parliament. it has been repeatedly said in the negotiations - you have just said it indirectly - that it may delay the individual legislative procedures. yes, there may be delays here and there. but on the other hand, parliament's expertise should not be left out. we have, for example, proposed to include these substances in the basic regulation, knowing full well that there have been two amendments in four years which could easily have been passed by parliament in a quick procedure. the fear that parliament will delay or block is unjustified. we must make it clear from the first reading that we are insisting on our rights. the council must then also be given the signal that we will not be left to negotiate and make lazy compromises, and that we will not be able to let lawyers alone decide on what basis we will proceed. there must be a fair political dialogue with all the institutions. i want to thank you very much for offering to compromise once again. we'd like to go over that again. if we get somewhere along this line where it is just a small step, i think we can really adapt this regulation so that everyone agrees with it. we also want to see that we quickly arrive at procedures that are acceptable to all parties involved and that no one says that parliament is being blocked here. we don't want that. but we really have to take our interests into account in this context, and there can be no deal that does not suit us in the end. i would also like to say again that the compromise has always been on the part of parliament, and i have rarely heard a compromise proposal from the council.
the first item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the programme of action of the cypriot presidency. i would like to welcome the president-in-office of the european council, mr dimitris christofias, to this house. welcome to the country, mr president.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not after our visit to cyprus with the conference of presidents to prepare the council presidency, i stayed in nicosia for another day in private to see this city, which i did not know. on the one hand, i was in the archaeological museum and was struck by the beauty of this great cultural heritage on the island. on the other hand, when i was back in the real world and had crossed the border several times in the old town of nicosia, where it was possible to cross, i was really shocked by this confrontation, as it still occurs in cyprus. i am not as presumptuous as my colleague graham watson to tell you what to do for the next six months. but i would like to repeat the wish that many of our colleagues expressed in the nicosia talks: the presidency of the council is turning europe's eyes to cyprus, and we must all work together to overcome this indignity and this kind of confrontation, which is actually a thing of the past. it is in the interest of all cypriots, in the interest of the greek and turkish cypriots. i am aware, of course, that the presidency of the council is beginning in a very difficult situation. the debate, the dispute over the summit results continues, and i do not know if we have ever had a summit during the crisis whose results had such a short half-life on the markets as those of the last summit. interest rates are rising, the interest burden on the crisis countries is higher than before the summit. that needs to be evaluated. you are taking over the presidency of the council at a time when, after returning to your country, the council representatives have apparently completely forgotten that the european union is only a community of responsibility. at present, it is obvious that many heads of state and government, including many who are more party politicians at home than europeans, are not really aware of this responsibility. i know you're really facing the big challenge of putting this back together. i believe that by the time the troika presents its new report on greece - and this is also an existential moment for cyprus, for your country, in this crisis - the disagreements within the council must be resolved. i am very concerned, however, about the impact of this new report on greece and the decisions to be taken there on what has so far been decided on thin ice at the last summit. the european parliament's resolution which we are going to vote on today provides a good indication of what needs to be settled urgently during the summer. i would like to address one last point, mr christofias, because i understand that justice is a major concern for you as a politician and as a human being. i believe that in cyprus - although i know very well the structural problems associated with this large banking and financial sector - there is also a need to work on tax fairness, tax havens, tax evasion and tax avoidance. the only way you can succeed as president of the council is to tackle these issues despite your own problems.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, mr president of the council of the european union, mr dimitris christofias! it is a special moment for me and my group to be able to welcome you here today in your capacity as president of the council of the european union. we are delighted that for the first time in the history of the european union, a man who is part of our political family is leading the eu. you are taking over the presidency at a time when the european union is facing enormous challenges: the question is whether the european union will really have a future, or whether it will be able to stand on its own feet, and that would be, in my view, a historic defeat, a footnote in history. i know from the discussions we have had with you, with the representatives of your government, with the heads of the political groups and parties in your country, that you have prepared yourself very well for the presidency and that you are also aware of the significance of your task. but you have made that clear here today. you are consciously trying to draw the attention of the government to the living conditions of the people. i can tell you that after all that i have heard in the last few years, this is the first time that a president of the european union has done and announced and said exactly that! this is the tone i have long missed in official speeches, that it is said that this is about the people, it is about those who are not responsible for the fact that we are in this crisis, but who have to bear the most burdens. it's going to be difficult to implement that approach. i think that a great deal would be gained - and i am sure that you will do so - if you, above all, encourage the people with your presidency and the way you exercise it, if you stand up for their rights and if you help the council and the european institutions to be aware of this task. we are constantly talking about the euro and its stability, about the need, which i also see, for it to be important for the functioning of the european union and the eurozone. but this is an instrument. the political conditions for this have been defined. it can never be the aim of the european union to accept that, for the euro to function, people in the european union must go hungry, that health systems collapse, that local administrations have to stop working. something's wrong here. it is not what we can call the objective of the european union. i very much support your call for social cohesion, for solidarity between the member states, but also between the various groups of the population. the european union must not be used or represented as a mere instrument or spokesman for a certain small section of the population. i would like to make one last point, to emphasize that all the things you have mentioned in your priorities are important to us and that we will support the points that go in this direction, as i have just defined them. please do something to stop people from being afraid. fear is the worst adviser to democracies. i think that some of the decisions that have been made in recent weeks and months, particularly in the elections in greece and the referendum votes in ireland, have also been driven by fear. and if the rulers of the european union are helping to make people afraid to make their own free choice, then that is not a good sign for the future of the european union. good luck with your work. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i congratulate you, mr president, on your assumption of the presidency of the council and i wish you success in carrying out your tasks in these difficult times. your full commitment will be needed, mr president, when it comes to creating growth and jobs within the european union. we are very interested in your specific proposals for solutions to combat youth unemployment. the european parliament will support you in this if you make use of it. the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework are of course also a high priority. and you have rightly recognised, and i congratulate you on this, that the financing of the transeuropean networks has a great european added value. i would also like to appeal to you to make a strong effort to ensure that the financing approach requested by the commission is implemented in the council. your country would also benefit, mr president, for example, your port in limassol is part of the core network, your airport in larnaka is part of the core network, and there is a project between limassol and nicosia, a road project, which could benefit from european funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. mr president, what scenario is the european union facing if there is no solution to cyprus, which is more likely than ever after 38 years of unsuccessful negotiations?
mr president, mr christofias, i would like to thank you for your reply. i wish the cypriot presidency success in its work in the interests of the european union and cyprus itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to add that the initial discussions with minister mavroiannis and his staff are promising with regard to the multiannual financial framework. i expressly welcome the cypriot presidency's document of monday, which just mentioned the close cooperation with parliament in the preparation of a financial framework, while also strictly respecting the prerogatives of parliament deriving from the treaty of lisbon. we are very happy about that. i would like to add once again that the special committee report is still the basis for our business in this debate. we need adequate resources, combined with better use of resources and efficiency in the spirit of the eu 2020 strategy. we need own resources worthy of the name if we are to finally live up to the treaty of lisbon on this point. we insist on the unity of the budget and we are prepared to have intensive negotiations, which deserve the name, before we receive a proposal for a multiannual financial regulation, because we want to be able to agree to a result and not to have something on the table of the house where we might have to say no at the end of the year. i am therefore counting on close cooperation based on trust.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the social change and innovation programme, which brings together the three programmes eures, progress and microfinance, i would like to draw your attention to two specific concerns. the commission's proposal to fund crossborder partnerships from 2014 onwards through the esf was rejected by the employment committee. if the financing of these partnerships is only possible under the esf, each participating member state would have to include them in its operational programme for the esf. this is unlikely given the many funding priorities. border partnerships for mobility advice must be additionally financed through the eures axis. this is a demand which has cross-party and cross-country support and i hope the council will support it. it is about facilitating mobility and the advice that goes with it! we have introduced a fourth axis for a youth initiative with broad consensus and the support of all the political groups. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat youth unemployment. the youth initiative will only be integrated into the programme if additional funding is secured from the multiannual financial framework. the commission and the council always insist that something must be done about youth unemployment, but that projects are lacking. if the fight against youth unemployment is indeed a priority for the council, this is the opportunity to prove it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am speaking here as the representative of my group and i would like to support the motion by mr fjellner. ladies and gentlemen, we do not have many raw materials in europe. the raw material we have here is our brains and our creativity. this calls for careful handling of the matter of intellectual property rights. the european commission has submitted this proposal to the european court of justice for an opinion in order to clarify the questions which remain unresolved. it is only out of respect for the highest court of the european union that we await that decision. there is no objective reason to make that decision today. no one shall be prevented from voting against it after the court of justice has delivered its decision and delivered its opinion. but the decision that is made then is in a different consciousness, in a different knowledge than today. the ghost drivers on the internet highway should not be dictating our politics! that is why i ask you to support this motion. (applause from the centre)
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, after this vote i would just like to refer once again to what has already been said in the plenary by my colleague, commissioner de gucht. he underlined the importance of acta for creativity, innovation and economic potential in the european union and how important this agreement is for the external competitiveness of the eu’s economy. i would like to inform honourable members that the commission will maintain its request to the european court of justice for an opinion on whether acta is compatible with the treaties and, in particular, with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. after that we will study the court’s opinion closely and the commission will discuss this matter with the other signatories of acta and with the european parliament. it will then consider what further steps to take.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just have one question for our legal department. i ask the legal service to examine whether it is possible to make requests without a purpose. there is in fact motion no 20 which calls for parliament to have a single seat. the treaty has only one seat, and that is strasbourg. we can concentrate our work here without the council, that's in the contract. the application is therefore unlawful.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the decisions on the criteria for granting aid to european farmers, on export refunds and on minimum export prices for agricultural products can no longer be taken behind closed doors. the council can no longer, as before, decide on commission proposals alone, but all agricultural matters must be decided by the ordinary legislative procedure. this is the law in force since the treaty of lisbon and must also be taken into account when adapting the old comitology procedure to the new distribution of competences in agricultural policy. that is what the committee on agriculture is asking for. we have finally made a good decision with this report by our committee chairman, that parliament too will ensure that we not only exercise but also defend the powers granted to us by the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - the debate on acta has long dominated the media and internet landscape across europe. rarely has a subject stirred the public as much as the current debate over copyright. the aim of our discussions in parliament was to have a comprehensive, public and, above all, objective debate. i think that would have included waiting for the european court of justice to give its opinion before we took a final decision. i therefore abstained from voting today. however, one thing must not be forgotten: the european economy suffers considerable losses every year from product and brand piracy. i therefore support an agreement which will take action against these criminal machinations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i have just voted against acta by a large majority in the ep. today it is called acta ad acta. tomorrow, we'll restart the company to protect our brand. acta was riddled with too many errors and unclear questions in its current form. acta has caused people to be unsure and has led to a lot of public pressure on social networks and new media. the latter is good. it also remains irritating to me that acta was a 'secret' for years and only became public late, under intense pressure from the european parliament. we should be able to do everything in the fast-track procedure. this is not the way. many mistakes have been made that can only be corrected by a fresh start. the clear 'no' to acta is, for me, an unqualified 'yes' to global protection against 'product and trademark piracy on a commercial scale' - the very heart of the agreement. europe has much to lose without effective and globally enforced coordination of copyright protection. intellectual property is europe's most valuable commodity. our decision today opens the way to develop a new, better and more transparent agreement under european leadership. the process can and must be conducted in dialogue with all stakeholders people and ethics should be at the centre.
in writing. − after many discussions with internet users, artists, publishers and media representatives in recent weeks, i have just voted against ratifying the current acta proposal. the following objections from citizens are, in my view, justified: the possible intensive monitoring of users by internet providers, the excessively wide-ranging powers of the competent authorities in ratifying states and the danger to health care, particularly in the third world, of restricting trade in generic medicines. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i am determined to have a detailed explanation by this court. my vote against acta today is directed solely at the vague and vague wording of many of the amendments and the lack of seriousness, transparency and willingness to dialogue of many of the participants in the legislative process of recent months. i am in favour of the idea of copyright protection and the guarantee of quality products. but when a large proportion of eu citizens oppose a law so strongly, the policy must address the issue with the utmost openness and care. i therefore welcome the majority decision of the european parliament.
in writing. - acta is not an instrument to abolish internet freedom or to criminalise internet users. this is the claim of thousands of serial e-mails that have reached me in recent times. it is a trade agreement that protects intellectual property not only in the eu but also in 10 other countries, such as the us and japan. however, i voted against acta because the copyright laws underlying the agreement are outdated and do not take sufficient account of the development of the internet. i am in favour of protecting intellectual property and fighting product and brand piracy, because the european economy is based above all on invention, creativity, brand exclusivity, technological leadership and thus on intellectual property. however, we should first have a debate on european intellectual property laws in order to reform them. the broad discussions on acta have shown that this issue should be dealt with in depth. i see an opportunity here to build consensus through a wealth of information. if people can be made to understand that the protection of intellectual property, including and especially on the internet, depends on jobs and the development of our economy, then citizens will understand that this protection is necessary and must be exported to other countries.
in writing. - as it was not possible to postpone the vote on acta in order to evaluate and take account of the pending judgment of the ecj, i abstained from voting. acta is enforceable when it comes to fighting product piracy and enforcing copyright. however, the fears and concerns of a section of the population who see their freedoms restricted by acta should be taken into account. that is why i would have considered the ecj's decision to be an important criterion for my decision.
in writing. - i abstained from voting today on the acta agreement because i think we should wait for the european court of justice's ruling on acta. the court of justice will ultimately have to consider whether the agreement will change existing european law. i myself have read the agreement and i believe that this is not the case. in 2010, the eu seized 103 million products at its external borders, most likely counterfeit branded products. for the first time, the estimated value of the equivalent real products was also given, at over eur 1 trillion. in view of these unimaginable figures, i believe that it is urgently necessary to intensify the fight against piracy in order to ensure the competitiveness of our european economy. a global agreement on the protection of intellectual property is therefore essential.
in writing. - like many of my colleagues, i could not vote for the text of the treaty, at least not at that time. unfortunately, the pragmatic course of my group was not supported by the majority of the house and the postponement of the plenary vote was rejected for vague reasons. i don't think that's a serious way to do politics. the opportunity to turn a text which was in part in need of clarification into an agreement beyond all doubt, one which i could have agreed to, was lost in a reckless manner. we should have let the ecj do its job and then, if necessary, pressed for legal clarifications. in this way we could have ensured legal certainty for all eu citizens. but after many years of intensive efforts and negotiations, we are back to square one. most opponents of the treaty vacillated in their arguments between hysteria and - in some cases deliberately - misinformation of the public. the scare stories often made reference to things that were never or had long since ceased to be part of the contract. we could have used such an agreement. the remaining critical points from the internet chapter could not be clarified, so i was left with abstention.
in writing. the cdu/csu group considers acta to be the right thing to do in principle. however, the commission has asked the european court of justice to do so. consequently, we must wait for the court's answer before we can finally vote for or against the agreement. that is why we voted to postpone the vote on the agreement in plenary and abstained from voting on the report.
in writing. - the most sensible way of resolving the problems, particularly from a development policy point of view, with acta in its present form would, in my view, have been to postpone the vote. since there was no majority for this, i decided to abstain. this is to demonstrate my support for the legitimate aims of the agreement, but also to take account of the concerns, for example, about easier seizure procedures for generic medicines at border checks, which have not been addressed by informal commitments from the commission. it would also have been desirable to have involved the developing countries in the negotiating process.
in writing. - i abstained from the vote because i would have liked to hear the outcome of the ecj before we discussed it further. the whole procedure is debatable from all sides, controversy and misinformation have killed the subject and unfortunately have not solved the problem. for further processing, the infringement of trademarks should be dealt with separately from intellectual property in two procedures. the question arises, however, whether individual agreements can be implemented worldwide. within the eu we are called upon to continue to discuss copyright, the internet, fees such as gema and free access and to find a workable solution. this reminds me very much of the software patents that were rejected, where i voted against it back then.
in writing. - i abstained on the vote on the acta agreement because i am in favour of a further debate after the ecj decision. the proposal by my group to postpone the vote would have been the right step. the european court of justice ruled that legitimate concerns could have been addressed by further negotiations as to language that allegedly involves internet surveillance . but unfortunately, the colleagues in the other groups do not seem to be aware of the consequences of their decision. because acta is so much more. i would like to highlight another point which is also important for my home region on the saxon-czech and saxon-polish border: product and brand piracy. customs in the free state of saxony recorded a dramatic increase in product piracy in 2011 last year, more than one million counterfeit products such as sportswear, electronics and technology worth €9.1 million were seized by customs officers in saxony. the economic damage tripled within a year. we could and should have acted here. the general rejection of the acta agreement is not only jeopardizing jobs but also the safety of consumers in saxony.
in writing. the alternative resolution, in addition to supporting the 8hours campaign, calls for a legislative proposal to ban cloning. in the debate i decided to support the alternative resolution despite the call for a ban on cloning, as the limitation of the transport time for farm animals to eight hours is an absolute priority. firstly, the european parliament has supported a written declaration on this subject. moreover, more than 1 000 000 people across the eu have signed up to the 8hours campaign. it is therefore only logical that the demand of the parliament's majority and one of the first citizens' initiatives should be reflected in the eu's animal welfare strategy.
in writing. - the text refers to eurobonds. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the fdp has clearly opposed the distribution of the responsibility for the national debt of the individual members of the eurozone.
in writing. - i and many colleagues from the cdu/csu group have voted in favour of the resolution, as we expressly welcome the decisions of the european council. unfortunately, the text of the resolution also contains content which we do not support. we continue to reject the idea of a community approach to the public and banking debt, since prudent budgetary management must not be exploited by debtors. we also oppose the passages in the resolution calling for common mechanisms for the restructuring of banks and the safeguarding of customer deposits, and for steps to be taken on common debt securities.
in writing. - i abstained because, again, reference is made, without necessity and without reason, to the pooling of the debts of the member states and the introduction of eurobonds.
in writing. − we agree that a basic account should be available free of charge or at a reasonable cost. but let 's be realistic . we cannot force banks to provide free accounts. this is particularly the case where the basic account gives rise to an account which includes so-called 'remote payment transactions', i.e. internet and telebanking. telebanking is not a basic option that must be made available to every consumer free of charge. if this were such a basic function, then in the future everyone would set up such a 'basic account' and no other accounts would be needed. today, however, it has been generally assumed that remote payment transactions belong to a basic account. but then we can't expect a free account. in addition, a basic account should not contain any, even minor, provisions, as this is not a basic function either. more importantly, i believe that the consumers for whom this account is intended - namely the socially disadvantaged and students - should not be able to get into debt. the danger of not getting out of here is great and that can't be the point. the report notes that such a stand-by loan is intended to cover only temporary balances. i would like to warn you against this gateway.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i very much welcome the opportunity to take part in this debate and i look forward to the vote on this issue tomorrow. it is particularly encouraging that the proposal for a pilot phase of the project bond initiative has been brought to a successful and timely conclusion. in this regard i am very pleased to acknowledge that this was fully taken into account by the european council in its conclusions last week. stimulating investment in infrastructure is a key element in supporting growth and creating jobs. at a time when national budgets are under considerable pressure, it is essential to look for new and innovative ways to boost economic growth throughout the union. access to finance has become more difficult in the wake of the financial crisis. in the current challenging economic environment, we need to ensure that long-term investment in the fields of transport, energy and information technology can be maintained. the project bond initiative is designed to help attract and facilitate private financing of priority projects. the european union contribution to the project bond instrument should help leverage large volumes of investment. if we can achieve high multiplier effects, initiatives such as the project bond instrument will help ensure that scarce budgetary resources are used as effectively as possible. provided that the experience of the project phase is positive, the volume of such financial instruments could be developed further in the future. the agreement reached with parliament is therefore particularly welcome. it specifically addresses several elements that are important to the council, including the need to launch the initiative as soon as possible. it also provides for appropriate reporting during the critical first phase and for an independent evaluation at the end of the pilot phase to allow us to assess the impact and effectiveness of the instrument. many of these concerns were shared by parliament. this helped us make rapid progress, for which i would like to express my thanks to the danish presidency for the particularly efficient way in which it conducted the negotiation. thanks are also due to both parliament and the commission for their openness and willingness to secure an agreement as soon as possible. i would, in particular, like to express our gratitude to göran färm for the excellent way in which he has handled this important dossier and the constructive manner in which he approached the negotiation. more than ever, we need to stimulate smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the eu. a wide range of instruments and policies have to be used in order to achieve this. i am therefore pleased that by working closely with the european parliament and the commission we have been able to deliver on the project bond initiative. it will make an important contribution to supporting investment in infrastructure and will thereby help boost economic growth and create jobs. i am sure that is something that all of us will welcome.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur göran färm, the co-rapporteurs, mr langen and mr cancian, and their shadows for their very substantive reports and the many constructive proposals they have made in these reports. i would also like to thank the european investment bank and president hoyer for excellent cooperation in the preparation of this initiative. firstly, allow me to put the project bonds initiative in the broader context of our growth agenda: boosting the lending capacity of the eib; launching the first phase of project bonds; and redirecting a certain amount of structural funds towards supporting in particular small and medium-sized enterprises and young unemployed people. these important initiatives are finally being decided and implemented. i am glad to see that the initiatives the commission has long been advocating are now turning into reality. this is definitely necessary as the european union, especially the eurozone, finds itself at a decisive juncture, not only in its three-year-old debt crisis but in its thirteen-year-old history. the two are of course closely intertwined. the short-term symptoms of this crisis have their roots in long-term ailments, both structural and systemic. we need to relieve the short-term pain of market pressure to create breathing space for countries to adopt the game-changing reforms that are essential for long-term gain. on both fronts we are now moving forward convincingly. last week’s euro area summit agreed to measures that should finally allow us to break the vicious circle between banks and sovereign debt which has done so much to undermine confidence. once a single banking supervisory mechanism is in place the new european stability mechanism will be given the power to recapitalise banks directly without its loans adding to the debt burden of countries already under intensive market pressure. there is no time to lose. that is why the commission is already working on its proposal for this single banking supervisory mechanism involving the european central bank, together with some other proposals it considers to be an essential element of the future banking union europe is now committed to put in place. we also count on your support in that regard. the commission proposed the europe 2020 project bonds last october as an effective and efficient way of using the eu budget to leverage private investment. to test the concept of project bonds and demonstrate to the markets and our citizens that it works, the commission proposed a pilot phase. this is the proposal before you now. i encourage you to adopt this proposal, in order to support the recovery of the european economy, investment, growth and job creation.
president of the european investment bank. − mr president, it is a great pleasure and honour for me to participate in this debate on project bonds. allow me first of all to thank parliament for its support of this initiative, and in particular the rapporteur, mr göran färm, for his constructive and pragmatic approach which has hopefully helped to reach a compromise acceptable to all. as we all know, there will be huge investment needs all over europe in the coming years, so the test phase of the project bond initiative comes not a moment too soon. we are faced with an urgent need to restart our economies, to stop the rise in unemployment, in order to preserve the eu’s role and position in the world, and the project bond initiative will be one more element among others in our toolbox to raise private money on the financial markets. it is not an alternative to the instruments in our toolbox; it is an addition to them. at last week’s summit, leaders committed to an ambitious growth and jobs compact. long-term investment will be a crucial component of this plan. importantly for the taxpayer, the project bond initiative does not impose an additional burden on domestic budgets, sovereign debt or contingent liabilities. on the contrary, it relies on a small eu budget contribution redirected from existing programmes, coupled with an eib guarantee or loan. together, these two elements will improve the quality of debt raised by project promoters, allow institutional investors to buy this debt, and support considerable investment throughout europe. the multiplier effect can be significant. with a eur 230 million guarantee from the eu budget and an eib contribution, we will be able to support up to eur 4.3 billion of investment in this pilot phase. this is the rationale for using public money as risk capital in times of crisis. a careful scaling of the eu guarantee and eib loan element will allow for a more efficient use of eu budgetary resources. the project bond initiative is therefore another fine example of synergy between the eib and the commission and i thank commissioner rehn for his excellent cooperation. as the eib has traditionally worked on three pillars – lending, blending and advising – we are optimistic that we can offer our help and experience to make this pilot phase a success, and it must become a success. building on its experience and developing joint instruments, the eib has been working on identifying projects suitable for the start-up period. the first pilot projects will most likely be situated in some of the more advanced project-financed markets of the eu, and will focus on a handful of clearly bankable deals where relatively small amounts of public money can help underpin relatively large volumes of investment. the clear objective, however, is to support access to long-term finance for infrastructure throughout europe. investment in energy networks to promote energy security, in digital access, and in sustainable transfer infrastructure is crucial for the success of the europe 2020 strategy and the continent’s long-term growth prospects. i hope that project bonds will increase appetite for private-sector financing of vital projects.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. - mr president, i have to say something. i have to report to the committee on industry. the committee on industry adopted 28 amendments unanimously. the committee on budgets has taken most of the decisions. we wanted to introduce reporting obligations and to underline the seriousness of this pilot phase: an independent final evaluation, an interim report, the fact that this is done under the full responsibility of the eib, including technical expertise, and not just an extension of the commission, although budgetary resources are also made available. we want to mobilize private capital for the big infrastructure projects, for broadband, for energy networks, for all these challenges. and my request, mr president, is that when the selection phase comes, the eib should not be impressed by anyone. it is not possible to carry out only simple projects in the pilot phase and then to convert the model and the result into difficult projects where failure could possibly be imminent! so, honest appraisal, selection and evaluation, that is the concern of the industry committee, because we generally support project bonds as a way of mobilizing private capital!
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, let me start by saying that this is one of our toxic assets so i hope that you will bear with me and accept at least my commitment to do my utmost – to do together our utmost – to find a satisfactory way forward for all of us. i am well aware that the issue of controls in and around internal borders in the schengen area is a matter on which this parliament has strong views and which parliament is following very closely. i also know that many of you have questions and concerns. specific cases concerning the reintroduction of border controls are a matter for the commission which is responsible for overseeing the implementation of eu law. i would, however, like to make a number of points concerning recent developments in the schengen area, including the issue of internal border controls. at its meeting on 7 and 8 june, the justice and home affairs council discussed this matter on the basis of the commission’s first biannual report on the functioning of the schengen area. that discussion focused in particular on the issues of secondary movements by third country nationals within the schengen area and of readmission and visa policy, but we also took note of the comments in the commission report on the issue of ensuring the absence of internal border controls. i want to assure this parliament that the council took full account of the importance of the absence of internal border controls during its negotiation on the schengen governance package. in june 2011 the european council underlined that the free movement of persons is one of the most tangible and successful achievements of european integration. the european council called for improved cooperation within the schengen area in order to enhance mutual trust between member states. this is essential if we are to protect the principle of free movement. the european council specifically called for a strengthening of common rules through the schengen evaluation mechanism and for the establishment of a mechanism to respond to exceptional circumstances which might put the overall functioning of schengen cooperation at risk. in response the commission submitted the legislative package last september which included both an amended proposal on the establishment of an evaluation and monetary mechanism and a proposal to amend the schengen borders code. as you will be aware, at its meeting on 7 and 8 june, the council reached a political agreement on these two proposals. this followed difficult discussions within the council as well as extensive contacts with the european parliament. the texts as they now stand represent a clear improvement in the governance of the schengen area. the schengen evaluation mechanism is substantially improved, ensuring a stronger role for the commission and a more efficient follow-up to evaluation reports and monitoring. the schengen borders code includes new provisions to address situations where member states are not fully implementing the schengen acquis. the proposal to amend the schengen borders code is of course subject to ordinary legislative procedure. this parliament will therefore be fully involved in deciding on the provisions which will govern the reintroduction of controls at internal borders. as far as the schengen evaluation mechanism proposal is concerned, the council took the decision to change the legal basis from article 77 to article 70 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i am of course well aware of the sensitivity of this decision for parliament. i want to assure you that this decision was taken for legal reasons, even if its consequences may be felt by members here to be political. the council was not in any way motivated by a wish to exclude parliament from the process. on the contrary we want parliament to be fully involved. that is why the council agreed that when it consults parliament your opinion, in all its aspects, will to the fullest extent possible be taken into consideration by the council before the adoption of the final text. i should also point out that the council also agreed, again for legal reasons and as part of the overall agreement, to transfer several provisions in the schengen evaluation mechanism proposal to the schengen borders code proposal. the cyprus presidency is ready to work constructively with the european parliament on both the schengen evaluation mechanism proposal and the schengen borders code proposal. we therefore very much hope that a way can be found which will enable parliament to reconsider its decision to suspend its work on the schengen governance package. this would enable us to work together to reach agreement on this very important matter as soon as possible.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me assure you that the commission is willing to help ‘detox’ this file if you would so like. the possibility to travel within schengen without being subject to border control is of course one of the most valuable rights for european citizens. it is one of the most tangible effects of european integration for citizens and it is the role of the commission, as guardian of the treaties, to make sure that this will still be the case. we will not hesitate to initiate infringement procedures if appropriate. my services are currently investigating a number of possible violations of the relevant eu legislation, including the schengen borders code. these cases cover both obstacles to fluid traffic flow at internal land borders and police checks that might have an effect equivalent to border controls. from last november to april, we investigated 11 different cases involving 10 different member states. you have highlighted in your questions here two of these cases: the german authorities’ controls on passengers on czech buses and mobile surveillance by the dutch authorities at their borders with belgium and germany. the commission is aware of both. in the german-czech case, the commission has repeatedly requested information from the german authorities on the frequency of controls and their justification. however, the information we have received so far from the german and czech authorities has not provided sufficient details to fully assess whether the controls were equivalent to border checks and whether they are in breach of the schengen borders code. we have not let the matter rest here. in may, we asked three major czech bus companies to assist us with more information over a longer period. we hope to have additional facts by october, which would enable us to carry out a more thorough analysis of the situation at that border. i am of course ready to come back to you and report on these results. regarding the dutch mobile surveillance, there have been several recent cases in various dutch courts, questioning whether it is compatible with the schengen borders code. in addition to the decision that you have highlighted, dutch courts have referred two similar cases to the court of justice of the european union for a preliminary ruling. the basic question is whether dutch mobile surveillance contravenes the prohibition of border checks or their equivalent laid down in the schengen borders code. the schengen borders code specifies that the abolition of border controls does not affect the use of police powers under national law, as long as they do not have an effect equivalent to border checks. this is valid in particular, but not only, if these police checks do not have border control as an objective – they are based on general police information and experience – and if they are carried out in a manner clearly distinct from border checks and on the basis of spot-checks. in both of the cases referred to the court of justice, the commission’s view is that the dutch mobile surveillance has neither the same purpose nor the same modalities as a border check. the surveillance is targeted on the fight against illegal residence and is subject to limitations, for example on the frequency of checks. the legal analysis conducted by the commission led to the conclusion that the dutch mobile surveillance does not contravene the schengen borders code or the case law from the melki case. we await of course the court of justice ruling in this matter. on a broader note, as i have said repeatedly, the commission will make use of our prerogatives to keep defending the rights of citizens to travel within the schengen area without controls. that commitment is also reflected in our proposal for a new schengen monitoring and evaluation mechanism which included the verification of absence of controls at internal borders. i still believe that a truly effective mechanism implies a stronger role for the commission based on article 77 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i am also convinced that the political legitimacy of that proposal would benefit from the european parliament acting as co-legislator. from the commission’s side we naturally reserve the right to take whatever legal action we may deem necessary to safeguard the integrity of the roles that the treaties have defined for each of the union’s institutions, but at this moment let us not speculate on legal action. no final decision has been taken so let us take some time for reflection and discussion and seize the opportunity to sit down to see if we can improve the text during the cyprus presidency and make sure that we have a balanced, good schengen governance that all three institutions can support. the commission is certainly willing to do everything it can to support such an outcome.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the schengen debate has been in the headlines in europe for the last few weeks. it is therefore good that we are discussing this matter in the european parliament today. i would first like to signal to the commissioner the support of the epp group when it comes to examining very specific allegations of irregularities in the european union, when it comes to violations of the internal european borders, they should be properly examined by the commission, because we want a strong european authority as epp, which will monitor the schengen status in the future. that brings us to the real debate that we are all concerned with. the council of ministers, in its decision on the schengen rules, has achieved an effect of which it was perhaps not aware. the council has not only taken a course which we consider to be questionable in terms of content, but it has also abandoned the path of cooperation with the members of parliament by choosing a new legal basis. and the council has taken possession of one of europe's most important achievements, namely the open borders. schengen means for us freedom instead of borders, cooperation instead of selfishness, cooperation instead of confrontation! freedom of movement in europe is a top priority for the european people's party. the people, the economy, the whole of europe benefits from it. we want open borders as a visible feature of european cooperation not to be disproportionately restricted, especially at a time when we need more european spirit. we as the epp want the member states to stop dictating to each other how to deal with the fundamental rights of citizens. this method has failed, the community method must be the focus. we as the epp want the decisions to come out of the backrooms of diplomacy, the elected bodies in which the citizens are represented to decide on these new legal bases. the epp will fight for the preservation of rights in europe. we do not see any insurmountable obstacles in terms of content. it is a question of whether we can find a way of working together in the process. so, mr. minister, i have to tell you, in a family, you don't get along with each other! this is destroying the spirit of european cooperation! we therefore ask the council to return to the path of cooperation, and - as you have said today - intensive contact is not enough for the european parliament. we are legislators, we are involved in the decision-making process, and that is why i ask you to withdraw the decision on the legal bases and to involve parliament as an equal legislator!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not we should really speak plainly today, and one of the plain words is that we cannot turn back the clock and we do not want to. we have the right, as a parliament, to take part in all decisions on schengen matters, and not just to be consulted. let me get this straight. i would also like to say that this community law cannot be left to the arbitrariness of political predators - and that is what i would call it - who are simply taking advantage of the situation. politically motivated infringement - that is how i would put it - the schengen agreement as a sort of muscle game in electoral campaigns is totally unacceptable and has nothing to do with eu law either. these problems do not only include arbitrary border closures, as we have had occasionally, which of course are in breach of eu law. this includes the installation of cameras at 15 border crossings between germany and the netherlands and belgium: these are also border checks, what else? and the whole talk of a german minister of the interior about reintroducing border controls is of course dangerous, dangerous not only because of the schengen problem, but also because these are the arguments of the extreme right, not only in germany. it is equally unacceptable that buses are constantly checked at the german-czech border, where i live. i can't stand this! it is not only buses from the czech republic that are checked, but also people who look different in some way, for example, a little dark-skinned. that's part of it. let's be clear: no, this is not possible! no, we do not want that because it is against the law and because we do not want that politically as a parliament. we therefore strongly criticise the council's action. because that is not only illegal, but also undemocratic. that's why i suggest the council discuss four things with us: firstly, we should agree that there can be no arbitrariness in the handling of the schengen agreement. that's what i want to discuss. secondly, we want to strengthen freedom of movement! we want to talk about it. thirdly, we want the commission, including the council, to take action in the event of a breach of the schengen agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
question for the commissioner: i would like to hear from you again what this has to do with turkey. turkey is not a member of the eu, as i recall. we are talking about the internal borders of the eu. are you familiar with the subject?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the free movement of persons in the union is not a matter of national law and cannot therefore be restricted by national law alone. whether it is changes in the schengen area or breaches of schengen rules, as the only directly elected european institution, the european parliament must be fully involved and co-decisive in all matters! the allegation of serious deficiencies at the external borders is worrying and factually incorrect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right of asylum is guaranteed in the member states. we must face these challenges together as europeans, rather than using pure populism to unsettle citizens. this joint action would be effective for our states, for our citizens and also for the refugees. we do not need a return to small states, we need more europe!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i consider schengen to be one of the greatest achievements of the european union, but i also know that the borders of a country are and will always be a very sensitive issue for our member states. i am aware that the problems between member states in relation to schengen cannot simply be ignored. and there are various problems. and ignoring it doesn't make the problems better, and it doesn't make them better solved. i live on the border with the czech republic, and no one would think of closing the border again just because we have problems. but i would also ask the commission to support this area and not to restrict and reprimand it. the veil search has been anchored because we want to guarantee security while at the same time freedom of travel. if we are to carry out the veil-search operation successfully, particularly at the czech border, where one or another drug trafficker is trying to get a passage not only in a few cases but in many cases, then i think it would be a good idea for the german and czech interior ministers to sit down together to solve the problems that exist at the border. the commission should not act as a regulator but as a positive supporter. we want to put the populists in their place, but we want to solve the real problems together! i therefore ask the council to work with parliament to find a solution so that we can successfully adopt the schengen files, so that we can have freedom of movement and at the same time guarantee the security of citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the cases of disproportionate border controls which parliament lists in its question also show why the council actually wants to leave parliament out of the schengen area. the council wants to continue undermining freedom of movement without parliament being involved in decision-making, without any form of parliamentary control, without any form of publicity. no wonder you prefer to pat yourself on the back for uncomfortable questions. it is no wonder that the german government wants to exclude an evaluation of internal borders altogether and thus does not want to look at how much the freedom of movement is restricted. but schengen does not belong to governments, it belongs to the people of europe and therefore also to the european parliament.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european court of justice in luxembourg is overloaded. and what we are deciding tomorrow may at first sight appear to be technical and therefore apolitical, but it is about the reorganization of the internal organization of the three courts which make up the court of justice of the european union, but there is more to it. the european union has been and is being endowed with more and more powers, most recently by the treaty of lisbon. the court of justice's powers have gradually been extended. the overburden is thus not only due to increasing numbers of cases, as in many member states, but also to the accession of 12 new member states. in fact, for years the number of cases closed has lagged behind the number of new cases brought. against this background, it is clear that reforms to the court's internal organisation have a major impact on the functioning of the european union as a whole and, ultimately, on the lives of european citizens. for this reason, it was important to me that all the legislatures involved - including the court of justice, which we have brought into the trilogue negotiations - should work together from the outset and find appropriate compromises. we have only partially succeeded in this. i shall begin with the part where we have actually found reasonable compromises which will make the work of the court more efficient and shorten the length of the proceedings. the main points are: the office of vice-president shall be established on a proposal from the court of justice itself. he will now represent the president in the representation and administration of the court and will attend all the sittings of the grand chamber. in addition, the composition of the chambers and the grand chamber, which will in future consist of 15 judges, will be changed so that the presidents of the chambers, which will have five judges, will also be relieved of their duties and the workload of all judges will be more evenly distributed. the proposals concerning the civil service tribunal are also explained quickly. this court has always been composed of seven judges. the small number of judges means that the absence of a judge, for example because of a long illness, seriously affects the court as a whole in its judicial function. to prevent this, the possibility will be created of assigning to this specialised court ad interim, i.e. temporary, judges who are former judges of the court of justice and whose appointment is to be made from a list in a specific order to satisfy the requirement of the statutory judges. the court of justice is the only institution in the european union which has the power to grant a judgment in a case of maladministration. so much for the good and objective compromises we have found together, for which i would like to express my gratitude to all those involved. as i said, we were not able to complete all the necessary proposals. and this is not because of the european parliament, but because of the council, or national vanities of the individual member states. the court of first instance has been asked to increase the number of judges from 27 to 12 and to 39 judges. in view of the increasing workload of judges, this is an appropriate approach, although the exact number of additional judges required can be discussed. in any event, we in parliament are convinced that the increase in the number of judges will ultimately contribute to a better judiciary for citizens and businesses. in fact, the member state from which the additional judges come should not be a decisive factor and appointments should be based solely on qualifications. finally, the principle of judicial independence also applies in the european union. but this is the music of the future. we have proposed a fair system for appointing judges, with many suggestions for how they could be appointed. the member states have not been able and will not be able to agree on any of these solutions in the council, which is why we will not decide to increase the number of judges for the foreseeable future. the reasons are purely national and cannot be objectively justified. i find that deeply unsatisfactory. the european court of justice must continue to be given due regard in the future. citizens and businesses have a right to it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the community law is growing, and with it, of course, the need for case law and judicial decision-making. right is - if you allow me to put it poetically - in this seemingly dry object - perhaps the most precious substance out of which this community is woven and in which we shape it. the law protects the weak from the attacks of others, from the claims of power, from violence. the law regulates the relations between people and institutions, protects freedom, protects democracy, protects solidarity, but it is also necessary to obtain it. the law must also be established where necessary, in doubt by a court of law. the european court of justice is suffering from an increasing number of cases. this is not surprising in the light of the expansion of community law. parliament has not closed itself to calls for an increase in the number of judges. we have made very sensible proposals on how to reduce the number of cases, increase the number of judges and improve the way the court works. the proposals have already been presented by the members. but there is one thing that is really incomprehensible to me, and i must say it clearly: parliament is responding to this call, taking seriously what citizens and judges are saying, we are working out a solution, we are working it out in trilogue with the council and the commission, we are reaching an agreement, and in the end nothing happens, nothing at all. why would you do that? because the member states cannot agree on how to appoint judges. i think that is intolerable in this common europe! i now expect some european responsibility from the council too!
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i thank all my colleagues and am particularly pleased that we are all in agreement here, across the political groups, that the number of judges must be increased, because mrs regner has also indicated how many there will be. we'll have to discuss that. the third force is often neglected because it cannot be sufficiently heard in politics. it's in their nature to be reserved. it is essential. mr häfner has done this for the citizens in particular, mr karim has done this for the companies. i hope that the friendship group set up by the council will not only deal with further internal reforms of the court of justice, especially since it has just completed a major reform which has also contributed to a decrease in the number of cases and the number of cases handled. but the separation of powers is really important here, and we cannot go too far. the two files have shown that some questions remain open and that we will have to deal more intensively with the court of justice in the future in our legal affairs committee, when it comes to the issue of dissenting opinions, which the court of justice does not want at the moment, or the establishment of special chambers or specialised courts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. however, we were under considerable time pressure here in view of the fact that now 14 new judges have to be appointed in october, and i hope that we will have completed the negotiations on the additional new judges to be appointed by the time of the next appointment of 13 judges in september 2013. i would like to ask the president-in-office if he would allow me to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the appointment of additional judges. we had planned to adopt a resolution here, which was adopted by all the political groups, but we did not adopt it - that was a unanimous opinion - because parliament had changed its rules of procedure. the following proposals are on the table: firstly, the selection is based on a strict rotation system involving all 27 member states. second option: six judges are from the most populous member states, the other six are from the other 21 member states on the basis of a strict rotation principle. or: six judges come from the most populous member states, the other six from the medium-sized member states on the basis of a strict rotation principle. or: six judges are appointed from the most populous member states, the other six are chosen in accordance with the same procedure as the appointment of advocates-general. an interim solution, namely the appointment of temporary judges for a period of five or six years, as proposed by the danish presidency, would also have been possible. the council has to reach agreement on this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that it is necessary to help all these countries in the eastern neighbourhood policy so that the rules for democracy, the rule of law, fair elections and so on are respected. i believe that we must do this together, within the framework of our neighbourhood policy - the aid we can give - but also in cooperation with the council of europe and the osce. i therefore welcome the invitation from the georgian government to send as many election observers as possible for as long as possible so that we can really check that the procedures are being followed. i think that's a relatively good development. you might get 45 days in prison for hooliganism there, in ukraine you get seven years in prison, that might make a little difference. but we have to see that freedom of assembly has to be guaranteed, that elections have to be guaranteed, that free media has to be allowed. if i see that we have a large number of different television stations there and it was possible to decide on a carry-all law on 29 june, then we have a better situation than in most countries and a greater differentiation than in some european countries and member states of the european union. but when i see that the blouses of the party of the rich ivanishvili are distributed on tv sets - in the sense of party financing, breaking all the rules of party financing, the lack of transparency of private money that flows into it, from someone who has earned 6 billion euros in russia - then i get a little suspicious and wonder if it is not necessary to check on both sides whether the rules are all being followed. if i see and there is evidence that votes are being bought, if i see that the opposition obviously has 20 times more money available to them in this election campaign than the ruling party, then it seems to me necessary to carry out a real review here, which also involves the opposition, if we want to arrive at a fair judgment. i do not think that the use of 18 consultancies, mostly american in nature, should determine how we decide on european neighbourhood policy.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not let me make a few comments. i believe that the work done by the foreign ministers last week is of great importance, as are the conclusions of the european council. but the friends of syria conference has shown how divided the opposition is. i think that's one of the main problems. we don't have to talk about how we judge assad, that assad needs to go and that the violence he's using against his own people is unacceptable. but the crucial point is that the opposition is unable to agree on a common rule of law and democratic position in which religious and ethnic minorities play a role, because these minorities still fear that they will be worse off under an islamist-led government than they are now. that is one of the core problems we face. we have to see that one point we have to assess soberly is what role the funding from qatar and saudi arabia plays in this issue; these countries are obviously taking the opportunity to support salafists and islamists, and this is a big problem. i would like to express my sympathy for the work and achievements of the turks. the turkish government is shouldering a lot of the burden, and they are directly affected. and i think it is absolutely clear that the shooting down of the plane is not acceptable and that our partner turkey - on this issue, nato member turkey - has our solidarity. but i want to insist again - and i know that the president of the council and the high representative share this view - that we must put an end to assad, but at the same time we must find a solution that does not lead to a complete break-up of the government and make the situation in the region even more difficult. i ask that we take this matter very seriously, but that can only be done if the western community stands together, but also if it is done together with the arab league and other forces in turkey. the arabs must not be relieved of their responsibility here in order to find a peaceful solution based on the rule of law, in which minorities have their place.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, many speakers made reference to respect for minorities, in particular religious, and more particularly, christian minorities. i want to assure you that we support all groups which are working for peace and we are closely watching the situation of each and every one of the several communities that exist in syria, which of course also means christian communities. there is also no doubt that human rights are being violated in syria. i think we all know how important the international criminal court is, that it is an achievement of the international community and how much we believe in accountability, but it is true that the reference to the international criminal court has been made both in geneva and new york, where discussions on the drafting of a new resolution are ongoing. this question was at the centre of a debate among member states on the opportunity and the timing of such a reference. at the moment, as we are all trying to give new momentum to kofi annan’s mission and to secure russia and china’s support for the new action group and its new road map, we have all agreed to avoid at this stage – i underline, at this stage – any controversial issue, but we will certainly have to come back to the issue of the international criminal court. we have listened with great interest to this very important debate – my good friend the executive secretary-general of the european external action service, pierre vimont, and i – and we will report back to high representative/vice-president ashton. we look forward to further discussions on the situation in syria in the weeks and months to come, as the transition process unfolds. we will keep you updated on eu action in this regard. with your support we hope that the international actions will bear fruit and stop the repression and violence in syria and allow for a peaceful and democratic transition. honourable members, i would like to thank you for your support, questions and concerns. they all contribute to defining eu policies in response to the syrian crisis. we invite you to remain engaged so that all our resources and ideas are used to the maximum. i was asked a question relating to my national capacity as the representative of the government of cyprus on the issue of sanctions and the specific issue of the vessel chariot. i would like to say – and i say this in my national capacity, not on behalf of the high representative – that cyprus respects and fully implements the arms embargo in place against syria and other sanctioned countries. it further stresses the importance of cooperation between member states for a more effective implementation of the arms embargo and demonstrates its readiness to initiate the relevant discussion in the appropriate fora to determine the best practices. as far as the case that has arisen with the vessel chariot is concerned, i should like to point out the following. the port authorities of cyprus had received reassurances from the captain of the ship and from the ship-owning company that the final destination of the cargo was i̇skenderun in turkey and not syria. we all know what happened afterwards. following this event both the port police of cyprus and the customs authorities issued new circulars reminding all their personnel and all ship-owning companies of the existing restrictive measures and sanctions against third countries, in particular, syria and iran, and warning them of legal consequences in case of non-compliance. the cyprus port authority has already given instructions to its lawyers to instigate criminal proceedings against the ship-owning company and the captain of the ship chariot. the republic of cyprus stresses its full commitment to the enforcement of european union measures and of security council sanctions against third countries. we remain vigilant and alert to fully implement the european union arms embargo in place for syria and other authoritarian regimes. in so doing, cyprus looks forward to the constructive cooperation of our european union partners by sharing information, knowledge and experience and affirms its readiness to contribute to the collective international efforts of enhancing the non-proliferation of arms in dual-use goods and technologies, as well as promoting peace, security and stability in the wider region. this becomes all the more important, bearing in mind that cyprus’s geographic proximity to the current turbulent region of the middle east and north africa, as well as our position as a shipping hub, necessitates enhanced surveillance in the efforts to enforce eu restrictive measures and security council sanctions.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in egypt.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, for the first time ever egyptians have been able to express their will in choosing peacefully the person and the project carrying their hopes and answering their expectations. the foreign affairs council of 25 june praised the peaceful conduct of the electoral process which marks an important step in egypt’s democratic transition. president van rompuy, as well as president barroso, catherine ashton and many european leaders congratulated the egyptians and the new president on this impressive, historic change. the european union electoral expert mission and the accredited international civil society organisations have not reported any major and systemic violation which could have changed the outcome of the elections. the european union delegation played a very useful role in coordinating the witnessing of the elections by its international presence in cairo. it is of extreme importance that under president morsi’s leadership all egyptians should be able to enjoy their full democratic rights and fundamental freedoms and that an independent and active civil society should flourish. we also welcome all the statements made by the egyptian authorities and president morsi regarding their will to uphold egypt’s international agreements. the peace and stability of the whole region, our common neighbourhood, is a shared goal by the european union and egypt. the peace treaty with israel plays a fundamental role. the supreme court of the armed forces has guaranteed that the treaty will remain valid and we trust that the new egyptian leadership will continue to stick to this principle. we are also confident that the new egyptian authorities will continue to play a constructive role in addressing the challenges facing the region, including the promotion of palestinian reconciliation. the transition will continue. the road towards a deep and sustainable democracy that will meet the aspirations and demands of all egyptians is still a long one, but egypt will never be the same. there is no going back. the addendum to the constitutional declaration issued on 17 june by the supreme council of the armed forces, and its decision to dissolve the entire lower house of the parliament, is worrying. with this decree the supreme council of the armed forces has assumed legislative powers and has significantly curtailed the powers of the democratically elected president. the foreign affairs council of 25 june expressed its serious concerns regarding this matter. the vice-president/high representative catherine ashton remains in close contact with the egyptian authorities. all parties must find a solution allowing the complete transfer of power to democratically elected civilian rule as swiftly as possible. in this context the announced intention of president morsi to appoint an inclusive cabinet representative of all forces in egypt is a very welcome development. it can substantially contribute to the emergence of a national consensus, which is needed during the delicate transitory phase. the coming months will have a huge impact on egypt’s future, with the adoption of a new constitution and the likely organisation of new elections. an essential aspect of democratic transition consists in ensuring that everyone can take part in social and political life without fear, regardless of political affiliation, gender, religion or belief. by its very nature a constitution is a founding agreement which must be consensual and inclusive to become a legitimate and durable reference for all citizens. therefore we expect that the provisions of the new constitution will: firstly, protect the human rights and fundamental freedoms of all citizens; secondly, place the army and the police under the control of democratically elected civilian authorities; and thirdly, guarantee the independence of the judiciary. egypt can count on the european union’s strong support in addressing the complex political and socio-economic challenges which lie ahead. we are looking forward to engaging and establishing a close and fruitful working relationship with the new president and with the future government, with the aim to further deepen our bilateral relations. in order to do so the former dialogues between the european union and egypt should be resumed as soon as possible. one of our priorities is the drafting of a new action plan reflecting the objectives of the new neighbourhood policy as defined in the march and may 2011 communications. in this context the meeting of the task force with egypt scheduled for this autumn will be a unique opportunity to show the european union’s commitments to egypt’s democratic transition. the vice-president/high representative will welcome the european parliament’s involvement and constructive input in the task force. ultimately the responsibility for egypt’s democratic transformation in future will be in the hands of the egyptians themselves. but the european union will continue to do its utmost in helping them to achieve this great endeavour.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not in egypt, a president has been elected in a non-violent election campaign. this is very welcome and a very remarkable development for egypt. the epp group wishes the new president of egypt, mohammed morsi, all the best and we hope that good cooperation will develop. the new president's first remarks are very encouraging. what he said about his attitude towards minorities, especially christians and copts, could serve as an example for the arab and muslim worlds. president morsi can even imagine that a copt will be his vice president, and by doing so he would be doing something that is contrary to other statements from the arab world, such as what the grand mufti of saudi arabia, sheikh abdul-asis bin abdullah, said on 12 march 2012 and i am surprised that it has hardly found a public reaction in europe and the world , namely that he has spoken about the fact that all churches should be destroyed and no new ones should be built on the arabian peninsula. if egypt now takes a different path and expresses that religion and politics can be reconciled, then this would be a whole new example of muslim faith and politics being reconciled. i say quite explicitly as a christian: there is no christian politics, but there is politics out of christian responsibility. similarly, there can be no islamic politics, but there can be politics from the muslim faith. and if human dignity and human life are at stake, then that is something we can all agree to. it is also a positive sign that president morsi is recognising the international treaties and therefore the camp david treaty between president sadat and prime minister begin - i believe it was signed in 1980 - . i would be glad if mr mavroyiannis would listen to me. mr mavroyiannis, mr minister mavroyiannis, i would be grateful if you could listen to me and i would ask you to deduct this from my speaking time. i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations. but we also ask israel to do everything now for its part, to bring about a two-state solution and to stop the settlement policy. and one last note: we see that civil society in egypt cannot develop freely. legal proceedings have been initiated against non-governmental organisations and international foundations, including the konrad adenauer foundation, for alleged illegal activities. the process has continued today and we call on the egyptian authorities to put an end to these processes, to recognise the work of people from europe and the world who are working for civil society in egypt, so that civil society in egypt can also contribute to democracy and free development.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, let me just say a few words about some of the remarks that were made by distinguished members of the european parliament. firstly, the crackdown on ngos receiving foreign funding is a cause of great concern. ngos are an important element in all modern democratic societies. as you know, support for civil society is a component of our new european neighbourhood policy. the european external action service has followed this issue very closely. high representative/vice-president ashton has expressed her deep concern about the restrictions on civil society organisation in egypt in two statements and before this parliament. the issue has also been addressed in the conclusions of the foreign affairs council of 27 february 2012. finally, when charges were upheld against ngo employees an eu demarche was carried out at the egyptian ministry of foreign affairs on 21 february 2012 to reiterate our concerns and to request the postponement of the investigations until a new ngo law is adopted. as you know, the trial has been postponed to april 2013 and the travel ban imposed on the ngo workers has been lifted. however, charges have not been dropped. this is why the european external action service will continue to give the highest attention to this issue and will keep close contact with the egyptian authorities, the member states, our american partners and ngos to follow up on the forthcoming developments. some of you also underlined the importance of upholding the bilateral agreement between egypt and israel. the high representative/vice-president is certainly keeping a close watch on this issue but, as you have seen, the new egyptian president has indicated in no uncertain terms his intention to stick to this agreement. of course we need to remain vigilant but we must recognise the importance of that statement. i would like to conclude by thanking honourable members for this fruitful exchange of views about the opportunities and challenges that egypt is facing in the aftermath of the election of president morsi. in this respect the forthcoming developments after the dissolution of the parliament and the constitutional addendum on the supreme council of the armed forces will require special attention. honourable members i believe, as you do, that the european parliament has a special role in supporting the promotion of human rights and democracy around the world. in this regard, egypt is a case in point. the utmost should be achieved to support the democratic transition, and the situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the country should continue to be carefully assessed. in that context, as mr pöttering rightly said – and i present my highest respects to you, mr pöttering, and also my apologies for what was perceived as a moment of distraction, but as a matter of fact we are trying to see how to take your comments into account – special attention must be paid to the freedom of religion and belief, not forgetting women’s rights. on behalf of high representative/vice-president ashton, i assure you that the european union will continue to pay the greatest attention to egypt. we are looking forward to engaging with the new president and the forthcoming government.
the debate is closed.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i may be a bit longer than normal, but rio was not short either. i would like to start by thanking the members of the parliament who, despite many difficulties, decided to join the conference in their personal capacity. i appreciate the exchanges we had during the conference and i am pleased that you can now share your impressions of the complex negotiations with other honourable members too. i want to recognise up front that the rio+20 outcomes document is less ambitious than what the european union had planned and wanted. however, after long negotiations, the european union and its member states decided to support its adoption as a step in the right direction. there are number of areas where the european union would have hoped for a more ambitious outcome. this applies, for instance, to setting concrete timelines for the specific commitments in the priority areas, or to institutional aspects. on the other hand, however, the final outcome still remains close to a range of initial objectives of the eu, and more importantly it provides a basis for further work in the right direction if properly implemented. but this must be done with a sense of urgency, because the planet and the poorest in the world cannot afford any delays. this is why we decided that it is better to have this agreement than no agreement at all. as you know, the challenges are global as are, in many cases, the solutions and we need to continue working with our partners also in the future. the outcome document acknowledges the important role of an inclusive green economy in achieving sustainable development and poverty eradication. it is recognised as an important tool for achieving sustainable development for all countries. it will enhance our ability to manage natural resources sustainably, increase resource efficiency and reduce waste. it relates to changing the way we consume and produce today to adapt our economies to the boundaries of our planet and to allow future generations to meet their own needs. overall support for this was confirmed by a number of countries during months of preparations and by positive references to the green economy in the final statements made by most heads of state including heads of state from the majority of the developing countries. the document also recognises the need for broader measures of progress to complement gdp in order to have more solid policy decisions, as well as the importance of corporate sustainable reporting. the outcome document provides the necessary basis to turn these words into actions at various levels. at a time when our society suffers widespread unemployment, we are also satisfied that rio+20 was given a stronger social angle to sustainable development on matters such as decent work, green jobs and social protection floors, thereby enhancing the linkages between its three dimensions. we also contributed actively to highlighting that democracy, human rights, the rule of law, good governance and gender equality and empowerment of women are indispensable to achieve sustainable development. these are the european values we will never back off from. the fact that these concepts have been made more operational at rio, for instance in relation to the human right to safe drinking water and sanitation, is important progress. concerning civil society and the private sector, the european union has fought for and secured a good outcome in relation to the fundamental role of civil society and stakeholders in the realisation of sustainable development. we will keep working throughout the next reforms to increase their participation in the decision-making process. in the new unep, for instance, we have agreed to ensure the active participation of all relevant stakeholders and to explore new mechanisms to promote transparency and the effective engagement of civil society. i would also like to highlight that rio principle 10 on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice has been extended at rio+20 from environmental matters to sustainable development as a whole. the inclusive green economy can bring fundamental changes to progress towards sustainable development because it will change the economic fabric. we have seen enormous engagement by the private sector in rio. this gives me hope that the top-down endorsement, even if weaker than we wanted, and the strong bottom-up movement, will actually bring about change faster than we could have hoped for. the private sector, if given the direction and framework ensuring public goods, can create investment, prosperity and well-being, decent employment and green jobs and help to promote sharing of know-how and development and diffusion of innovative technology. this will be fundamental to the necessary mobilisation of all means of implementation from all sources. this is the key to moving away from focus on the official development assistance approach alone. this leads us to the means of implementation, and that is also why the european union has taken the position that first and foremost each country must take the necessary measures to put in place an enabling environment of domestic policies that is designed to be self-sustaining. secondly, progress towards sustainable development entails providing the right financial instruments. we repeated our commitment to official development assistance, but order alone is not the answer. public and private funding and business expertise should go hand in hand in establishing appropriate financing strategies. innovative sources of financing should be encouraged and emerging economies should take a stronger role proportionate to their evolving international status. thirdly, moving towards more sustainable development also depends on skills, know-how and technology diffusion. in this regard the european union research framework programmes are open to all countries, including support for researchers in developing countries. the green economy can also make a real difference in the development and diffusion of green technologies to the countries having most natural resources. on the goals, targets and sdgs, the european union has made efforts to make the text more operational, including by proposing goals and targets with timelines in several areas, as you know. we have not obtained the timelines we sought, with exceptions such as the commitment to achieve sustainable reduction of marine litter by 2025, but the eu has achieved the integration of most of its proposed targets into the main text in the form of express commitments, for example on future action concerning extending the protection of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction. this has reinforced the text to make it more action-orientated. these efforts of the european union to focus attention on key issues such as sustainable energy, water, oceans, land and biodiversity, food security and resource efficiency, should also bear fruit in the next month in the process to develop sustainable development goals or sdgs. the decision at rio to develop sdgs and make them operational is indeed one of the main outcomes of rio+20. for the eu, the work on sdgs should be coordinated and coherent with the review process of the millennium development goals, mdgs, without deviating from efforts towards their achievement by 2015. it would be important to have an overarching framework for post-2015 that encompasses the three dimensions of sustainable development with goals that address key challenges in a holistic and coherent way. in addition, the agreement to launch the sdg process also means bringing a fresh impetus to a concept that was shown to be at risk at rio. i refer to sustainable development taken as a holistic notion. indeed, at rio+20, in spite of initial difficulties we have reaffirmed the need to put together our efforts to eradicate poverty and to secure sustainability within our planetary limits. in retrospect, reaffirming the holistic vision was more important than we initially thought in view of the resistance from many sides to continuing to address these two matters in conjunction. on the institutional framework, overall we welcome the agreement to reinforce the institutional framework for sustainable development. rio has reinforced international environmental governance by strengthening and upgrading unep. it will now have universal membership and must become our common home to set the global environmental agenda. in this new set-up, a truly global unep will have a new authority that will allow it to take actions that were until now beyond its reach. we have already started the strategic reflection on this new potential strength. we will, however, continue to work together with our partners towards the creation of a fully-fledged united nations environmental organisation to allow it to function on an equal footing with other un organisations. the other institutional reform is the decision to establish a new high-level political forum on sustainable development which will replace the commission on sustainable development. it should allow the regular participation of heads of state in reviewing the progress of all our commitments. the eu has ensured that it will have most of the functions required and it will be important to make sure that this reform brings real change. to conclude, at rio we reaffirmed that we share the same planet and that we share the same common responsibility towards future generations. none of the countries and regions present at rio achieved in full what was wanted initially. this also applies to the european union, but we have worked together with all the other countries to develop common ground, and it is a fact that the document would be less ambitious and less concrete without hard work and also commitment from many who worked on the side of the european union. rio+20 has not gone as far as most europeans would have wanted, but the key message today is that we agreed on many useful elements, many more than first reactions would lead us to believe, and this is why we should now focus on implementing them and building on them. the fate of the question of whether rio+20 was a failure or a success is actually still in our hands. it will depend on what we do with it from this point in time in implementing it in full. the european commission intends to do the necessary to build on what has been agreed at the highest level. we are looking forward to the european parliament’s view on how this can be best done, and count on you to keep the ambition and positive energy generated in the run-up to rio alive in the years to come at international, national and also local levels. the global transition to a sustainable model of development is obviously far from easy, and that was what rio was actually all about. it demands courage, vision, coherence, trust-building, but also time, which we do not have in abundant quantities, due to the urgency of the challenges we are facing, but that transition is simply inevitable. so, instead of repeating what rio did not deliver, let us rather join forces, find friends, find partners who share our analysis and also our determination, and start to deliver many of the ideas mentioned in the rio document, in europe and also globally. nobody is actually preventing us from doing so, and time is running on.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. today, many people will be talking about the content of rio+20. i would like to focus on the main question: why were we so disappointed? i was in rio 20 years ago as a young member of parliament and i would have liked to have been there 20 years later to witness rio+20. but the committee decided in its goodness not to travel, and since i was in solidarity, i did not travel. but, commissioner, how could it be that the technicians, who were here a week before you, had the results almost ready, and the members of parliament did not even get a chance to really comment on the content? that's what i've been told, and that's what i'm hearing from your house. i am also very pleased that the three pillars of environment, economy and social policy - which belong together in a social and environmental economy - are now fundamental components of the un. but, commissioner, we do not have much time left, as you yourself have just said, so i will take up this matter. we must then ensure that what we decided in rio is finally implemented, even if it was little. the first thing we should do is to consider whether we need to re-establish the un and our role in the un's environmental and climate policy. we've been complaining about that at every climate conference. we need a more efficient target! we do not need to hear from other people how difficult it is to have an opinion with 27 countries. how can we organize opinion in 192 countries in the long term? it's difficult, and it's not going to work with unanimity. we need a different form of organisation for these matters, so that those who want to take the lead can do so, but in an orderly manner so that europe's competitiveness is not permanently damaged. the commissioner, what is of particular interest to me about this question is that here in europe we have a strong tendency to put a new dossier on the table every week. we have a land use paper on the table from the directorate-general for climate now. our time to discuss this is limited to a few weeks. the paper has a dramatic impact on land management in europe. but, commissioner, why do we not go ahead and finally implement what we decided years ago? we have a plant protection directive, a fertiliser directive, we have an erosion control programme, we have flora and fauna habitat, a water framework directive and air quality systems. why don't we do that? if we do that, we'll look even better at future conferences around the world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have had an intensive debate in our committees on the environment in preparation for the rio+20 conference. but the bottom line is that the results that came out in rio are rather meagre. vittorio prodi said it: rio is minus 20! some ngos have also named the result. it is a very poor thing what came out of the conference. first of all, you have to ask yourself: are conferences in this format really effective? we have had copenhagen, which was a disaster, and now rio+20: we go from disappointment to disappointment. i believe that upgrading the un environment programme - almost to the level of the who - is the right way to do it, to give this organization more power and also more clout than it has so far. that is a very important point. we're going to see the world population grow to nine billion people. we're headed for disaster if this continues. if more and more people live in industrialized nations and want access to energy, and if we don't radically change the way we do it, that's going to cause the most massive problems. that's why we need a new development. there was no debate in society, and there was no debate before rio. when i look at what we voted on here yesterday, acta, and how many emails, letters, etc. we got, i think we need a movement towards a sustainable planet in the digital world, because we only have this one. we can really help change our strategy, bring more people on board, and then the angela merkels of the world will go to the next summit and maybe even pull together to get some real results there.
the commission has already done so. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the community, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken this initiative. i do not think that the glass is half full, but it is half empty, because the destruction of the world continues, and we have too few concrete goals, too few timetables, too few concrete commitments to shift to sustainable development. what is remarkable to me is the shift in power that has been demonstrated in rio. it's interesting that a developing country like brazil, backed by china and india, presented a document and there was no chance to change that. i would have liked europe - perhaps together with the african union - to have had more courage to do something for unep, to put more pressure on unep to become a un organization. what's next? there are hopes, of course. i think the hopes really come from the bottom: green cities and green business. we've never had as many mayors as we've had in rio, never had as many business leaders. we should work out the urban environment as a priority in the eu's seventh environmental action programme. most people live in cities, and that's where most of the energy and most of the resources are used, so that's a good approach. the same is true for advanced companies. they understood that economies can only be run if the fundamentals of the economy exist. we need to form an alliance with green business. we should also be moving as a parliament. the un has set up eight major groups: the economy, the cities, the women, the trade unions, etc. the parliaments must also be more involved, so it was a pity that we did not have an official delegation. we should form a major group 'parliaments' at the un conferences.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the summit in rio was a great disappointment indeed. many, perhaps most, observers have said that the money for this great summit could have been saved, because the result was already fixed and not very far-reaching. in that sense, you could say we did everything right. the european parliament's environment committee, in view of the high cost we were facing, decided to cancel the delegation and not go. but i don't think we should put our hands in our laps. we have to take the consequences and make sure that the next time it's different. this means, firstly, that we must look at how we can participate in such events without putting too much pressure on the taxpayer. secondly - and this is much more important - we must organise the process better so that the next time we do not have to deal with disappointments like this one. and third, of course, we have to do our homework. it is true that the european union has already done a great deal on the subject of sustainable development, and we should be proud of that, but there are also problems. i would like to take this opportunity to address the problems of emissions trading. we have a much lower price now than we had in mind in 2008 when we adopted the reformed emissions trading system. as a result, investors have no incentive to invest in low-carbon technology. we also have less revenue in the member states for the transition to a green economy, because emissions trading was also designed to use the revenue there. and we also have less revenue for international environmental policy if emissions trading doesn't work. that's why we need a solution. parliament has adopted the davis report by a large majority, and we have also urged reform of the emissions trading system in the negotiations on the energy efficiency directive. the commission has given us a statement. and i would ask the commissioner to forward it to all the other commissioners, because this declaration must stand! it says we need to take action urgently - a review of the auction. i hear the lobby is working very hard to postpone it. but i am a doctor, commissioner, and it would be a lousy doctor to say it is urgent and then go on holiday. so this problem must be tackled before the summer break!
the commission has already done so. the dissatisfaction after the rio conference is great. we recognize that europe cannot impose its ideas on the world in environmental policy. but this phase of sobering up can also be seen as an opportunity. europe can lead by example, that is one thing. the other is that we need to put more focus on adaptation to climate change, in addition to climate protection. but i believe above all that the development departments in europe, the research institutes in europe, the universities and the companies in europe can make an important contribution, because we must see economic development in conjunction with environmental policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. so let's push the environmental technology forward! this is what europe can offer to other countries. maybe we need to question the idea of greening. perhaps we should create a blue growth that relies above all on technology. the european union has a long history of supporting the environment and its citizens.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at a later part-session. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the subject 'chartering endangers the responsibilities of flag states under the cites convention' by gabriel mato adrover, on behalf of the committee on fisheries (o-000127/2012 b7-0120/2012).
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm sorry to have to hold you up. but for some reason, my voting card is missing, and they're looking for a new one. but i beg to be acknowledged.
written declaration no 0007/2012 submitted by members kaczmarek, badia i cutchet, gahler, grèze and hall on education in development and active global citizenship has received more signatures than the majority of members of parliament. it will therefore be forwarded to the addressees in accordance with rule 123 of the rules of procedure and published in the texts adopted at this part-session. the names of the signatories shall be published in the minutes.
written declaration no 0010/2012 by silvestris, de castro, mölzer, ortiz vilella and stadler on the introduction of the european day of craft ice cream has received more signatures than the majority of members of parliament. it will therefore be forwarded to the addressees in accordance with rule 123 of the rules of procedure and published in the texts adopted at this part-session. the names of the signatories shall be published in the minutes.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. we are about to vote on two technical reports on the ecj. let me make the following point, which is cross-party: the european parliament expressed its deep regret that the increase in the number of judges at the european court of justice, which was also recognised as necessary by the council, had failed only because the member states had not been able to agree on the member states from which these additional judges should come. this was despite the fact that there were many proposals for solutions. we therefore have here, in a highly exceptional procedural situation - for which there is hardly any precedent in this parliament - that we are voting today on the proposal for a regulation, at least partially to relieve the court of justice of its responsibilities, and the first part is left hanging, so to speak, and the second part is left hanging, and this more important part can then hopefully be brought to a successful conclusion by the summer of 2013 at the latest. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question, and i hope that he will give us a clear answer.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for this report, but i would like to make three comments on the project bonds. first, project bonds are a way of giving a new impetus to the financing of projects by involving private capital. however, this is not an infinite increase in financial capital. secondly, the projects must be meaningful and have an economic impact. we should also learn from the past: it is not just about building roads and hotel complexes. thirdly, a test and pilot phase is very important, because we should only promise people what we can deliver. at present, there are many promises and unrealistic expectations attached to these project bonds, and the pilot phase can serve to return us to the real path of virtue.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course, everyone wants to be active and positive in the middle east peace process, that is indisputable. we all know there's no easy solution there. anyone who has studied the history of the area and the facts knows that it is not so easy to distinguish between good and evil. the solution is usually, as they say, somewhere in the middle, and that's where my problem is: when i look at the proposal, it's just too one-sided. i think that the legitimate interests of the israeli side are also lacking. but i'll say it again: right here, it's very hard to distinguish between good and evil. i would have liked to see a european parliament resolution that would take this balance to a broader level. i could have voted for this resolution then.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on violence against lesbians and lgbt rights in africa.
question for the commissioner: i would like to ask mrs schaake how she came to the conclusion that there are many colleagues in this house who are not prepared to condemn the murder, violence and human rights violations against homosexuals. that is not the case at all, but we are simply opposed to the mixing of a human rights text with socio-political concerns. if you look at our resolution: it is absolutely clear that it is against any murder and any violation of human rights. i ask you to take note of that.
member of the commission. − mr president, it is sometimes said that the issues of sexual orientation and gender identity conflict with traditional values. the eu position is very clear: no, the human rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender or intersex persons are not a question of different cultures or beliefs, or about introducing new rights for a group of people. they are about the same human rights being applied to every person everywhere without discrimination. the eu has repeatedly called on all states to make this a reality for everyone. significantly, it has actually been an african country, south africa, which has taken the lead on the issues of sexual orientation and gender identity at the un human rights council. this dispels the myth that speaking up about sexual orientation and gender identity is somehow un-african. the eu strongly supports south africa’s leadership on this issue. around the world, the eu uses the full range of tools available to it to protest against human rights abuses and to offer practical support to end discrimination against lgbti persons. in africa, we have used both public statements and work behind the scenes to argue the case for justice and human rights for lgbti persons. we have done this, for example, in uganda and malawi: in uganda by opposing a proposed parliamentary bill further criminalising homosexuality, and by raising serious human rights issues; and in malawi, by opposing over-long prison sentences imposed on a gay couple. we have also used our political dialogues in namibia, in nigeria and in gambia to raise our concerns about the human rights of lgbti persons in those countries. moreover, the eu has been funding projects supporting the human rights of lgbti persons, for example in cameroon and zimbabwe. to ensure that the eu continues to do the right thing, eu delegations meet regularly with lgbti human rights defenders and keep a close watch on their situation. the human rights of lgbti persons have also been selected as a priority for the country strategies on human rights in many countries. as recently as 1 june this year, the commission organised, with parliament, a high-level conference to discuss how to promote non-discrimination and human rights so as to unlock sources of development and enable inclusive growth. at that event, commissioner piebalgs launched a new eur 20 million package to help fight against discrimination of all kinds, whether based on gender or sexual orientation, religion or belief, race or ethnic origin or disability, which affects millions of people around the world. this new package will be available for ngos and civil society groups to tackle incidences of any kind of discrimination on the ground.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on freedom of expression in belarus, in particular the case of andrzej poczobut.
question for the commissioner: the belarusian ambassador in prague highly praised mr klaus and thanked him for his constructive attitude towards belarus. i wanted to ask mr maštálka what he thought of this.
member of the commission. − mr president, on 23 september belarus will go to the polls in parliamentary elections. this debate, therefore, is very timely as we all know that freedom of expression is an essential element for any free election campaign. i think it is extremely timely that we have this very strong message from a very broad part of the european parliament. vice-president/high representative ashton remains seriously concerned about the continued lack of respect for human rights, the rule of law and democratic principles in belarus. since april, when prominent political prisoners sannikau and bandarenka were released, there has been no further release of political prisoners and those who have been released remain subject to heavy restrictions on their civil and political rights. instead, we have over the last weeks again seen an intensification of the repressive policies against independent voices, notably by means of administrative fines and sentences. the spokesperson of vice-president/high representative ashton therefore last week expressed her ‘deep concern about numerous reports over the last weeks of acts of harassment of representatives of civil society, the opposition and independent media’. the freedom of the media remains seriously curtailed in belarus and independent journalists are frequently directly targeted by the authorities. in the statement of the spokesperson of vice-president/high representative ashton, particular reference was made to journalist andrzej poczobut who, for his journalistic activities, as we have already heard here today, has again been charged with libel against the president. earlier this week, mr poczobut was released, but the charges against him have so far not been dropped. other recent cases against journalists include the sentencing of pavel sviardlou to 15 days of administrative arrest for allegedly swearing in public. as belarus prepares for the september parliamentary elections, an overall climate of fear prevails in which independent political expression or manifestation is not tolerated and independent journalists are systematically impeded from exercising their activities. the vice-president/high representative therefore again calls on the authorities to stop all acts of harassment of representatives of the independent media, civil society and the political opposition and to reverse the current repressive policies. to ms essayah and others who want an increased effort, i have some encouraging news for you. as of today, there is a new development because the un human rights council earlier today adopted an eu-sponsored resolution on the human rights situation in belarus, with 22 votes in favour, 20 abstentions and three votes against. this resolution clearly urges the government of belarus to immediately and unconditionally release and rehabilitate all political prisoners and, moreover, the resolution establishes the mandate of a special rapporteur on belarus who will report annually to the human rights council and to the un general assembly. i think that this is a major success for the european union which this time gained a higher number of positive votes and a lower number of negative votes on the establishment of the special rapporteur than for much milder reporting mechanisms only last year. the situation is serious, but this was some good news.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the next debate. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the scandal of forced abortion in china. see minutes of the sitting.
question for the commissioner: i don't understand you at all. i am not trying to be disloyal here, but i would like to repeat the question: do you believe that an unborn child in the seventh month - this is the consensus in itself throughout the eu - has a right to life or not? are you questioning the right to life of an unborn child of seven months? that is the point, because it was not the mother who was killed by a poison injection, but the child.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when a one-child policy leads to forced abortion, it is to be condemned, whether it is officially ordered or whether the perpetrators simply believe that their actions are covered up by those responsible. fortunately, the internet makes it impossible to hide such things anymore. it is also positive that the local authorities are willing to pay compensation and punish those involved. unfortunately, this is just a case of positive arbitrariness, because citizens in china cannot invoke the universal human rights and claim the protection of the rule of law. that's why we need to address this, because the list of those persecuted is long: writers and journalists, tibetans demonstrating against alienation and repression, falun gong practitioners being tortured in laogai re-education camps, and many other groups. and so it is right that we should keep putting this on the agenda and also seek dialogue with china on this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. china's one-child policy is linked to a phenomenon that great 20th-century writers from slam to solzhenitsyn have called the dictatorship of lies. the chinese regime claims it was an action of local authorities. we shouldn't fall for that! it is a systematic atmosphere that has been built up over decades, and it has its roots in the one-child policy. as long as the one-child policy exists, there will be forced abortions, forced sterilizations and brutal assaults like the one we just saw. that's why the one-child policy is the real point. we must assert the freedom of choice of the parents, and that is husband and wife, dear colleague vergiat, and we must assert the right to life of the unborn child. this is true all over the world, by the way. it is also one of the universal human rights, the right to life, from conception to natural death. we europeans should also take a stand and ensure that in our country, where there is no coercion, people are not killed while still in the womb. this is not abuse. but today it 's china: on the basis of human rights, we say no to the one-child policy.
mrs lunacek, the catching-the-eye procedure is designed to make the debate a little more lively. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i have already disregarded mr posselt in the first debate because of the subject of his two blue card visits and have decided to give him the floor now. he was not a registered speaker, mrs kiil-nielsen was a registered speaker. we are actually wasting more time than we are saving. but the point is, i'm trying to draw a line here, and i don't think i'm treating anybody unfairly.
member of the commission. − mr president, the eu is aware of recent forced abortions scandals in china, including the appalling case of mrs feng jianmei that many of you also have referred today. the eu has also been alarmed by the reported cases of mrs pan chunyan from fujian province and of mrs cao ruyi from hunan province who were respectively eight and five months pregnant when they were submitted to compulsory measures to abort their children in april and in mid-june. the eu has taken note that the chinese authorities have condemned such practices in the case of mrs feng jianmei, and have announced that an investigation has been launched and that the responsible officials would be punished. it has also taken note that a large-scale inspection will be conducted in 19 provinces where problems in the implementation of the family planning policy have been reported. nevertheless, the eu is concerned by reports that mrs feng and her family are faced with harassment and retaliation measures due to the publicity they have given to their situation. thus the eu will continue to monitor these cases closely. forced abortions, forced sterilisations and other instances of violence and coercion against women are illegal in china, but implementation of the law remains an entrenched problem on the ground. the eu has thus raised its concern about reports of abuses in the enforcement of the family planning policy in china in the context of the last session of the eu-china human rights dialogue which took place in brussels on 29 may. the eu urged the chinese authorities to take measures on the ground to ensure that the implementation of the family planning policy conforms with chinese laws and china’s international human rights obligations. the eu also expressed its concern about the fact that individuals, activists and lawyers who publicly criticise such punitive enforcement tactics face repressive measures. the eu questioned the legal basis for the harassment and intimidation of the blind human rights defender mr chen guangcheng, before he left for the united states, who had tried to help victims of illegal practices by local authorities in charge of family planning in shandong province. after his release from a four-year prison sentence, mr chen and his family were placed under illegal house arrest and subject to violent acts by their guards. the eu also raised the case of the chinese human rights defender mao hengfeng whose fight against forced abortions is well known in europe. we urged the chinese authorities to take measures to avoid harassment and physical violence by the police against her. the eu will continue to follow this issue and to raise its concerns with the chinese authorities.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place now. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.50 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 5 july 2012.
i am not going to go into detail. i am pleased to welcome you to our first plenary session after the summer break. i hope you're all well, because the next few months are going to be very busy, possibly dramatic. you all know that on wednesday morning, in the state of the union address, commission president barroso will be giving us his view of the state of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am sure that you will take this opportunity to explain to the president of the commission the positions of the house and its political groups.
however, as we resume our work at this time, i have some sad news to share with you, news of deaths which, due to the summer break, have only just been announced in this house: we mourn the death of our colleague, mr jiří havel, a highly respected and very popular colleague, a great politician who, with his great expertise, has shaped the work of the committee on industry and the committee on budgets of our house. jiří havel was a passionate european, an extraordinary man who will be remembered by us all, and who - i can say this from personal experience - dedicated his whole life to the service of others. the european parliament mourns the loss of edith mastenbroek, whose shocking death at the age of 37 left us deeply shaken. she leaves behind a young son who will now grow up alone. we mourn the loss of our former colleagues alexander falconer and paddy lane. colleagues we met in previous legislatures who passed away during the summer. in july, sakharov prize laureate oswaldo payá and his comrade harold cepero were killed in an accident in cuba. oswaldo payá's commitment has inspired a whole generation of cuban activists inspired in their fight for freedom and human rights. the idea of fighting for democracy, freedom and human rights was the life element of oswaldo payás, and that is why we have awarded him the sakharov prize. we will continue to preserve his legacy in this parliament. i would like to ask you to rise for a moment of silence in memory of our deceased colleagues and the late sakharov prize laureate and his companion. (parliament adopted the resolution)
ladies and gentlemen, in two weeks' time there will be parliamentary elections in belarus. the european parliament has been following developments in the country with attention and great concern for a long time. we are equally concerned about the continuing violations of human rights, the rule of law and democratic values. some events are particularly worrying to me: the ban on the departure of some opposition politicians and human rights activists on the basis of laws extending the powers of the secret service, the kgb, and the recent expulsion of the swedish ambassador. we all in this parliament call on the dictator to reform and political change. i would like to make it clear here - and also as a signal to this country - that the first step must be the immediate and unconditional release of all political prisoners and their full rehabilitation. the continued detention of ales bialiatski, mikalai statkevich, pavel sevyarynets, syarhey kavalenka, dmitry dashkevich and many other political prisoners is unacceptable. i say this to you because i want these people to know that we in the european parliament have not forgotten them! there is an institution that fights for them, and that's us! we call on the government to ensure that international standards are respected in the parliamentary elections, that all candidates have a fair chance, and that osce observers can carry out their mandate unhindered. i would also like to inform you that on 30 august i wrote a letter to the president of the republic of the gambia in response to the execution of nine people. for a quarter of a century, there has been a moratorium on the death penalty in the gambia. cooperation between the european union and the gambia is based on a commitment to respect human rights. in my letter, on behalf of the european parliament, i called on the government of that country to refrain from further executions and to reinstate the moratorium on the death penalty. in a state that has made itself the judge of life and death, there is no justice, only revenge. this is our deep conviction and that is why we, the representatives of the european people, will continue to fight for the abolition of the death penalty throughout the world. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to - i have already done so in writing - congratulate our former colleague and vice-president, mr stavros lambrinidis, on his appointment as the first eu special representative for human rights. (applause from the centre) you all know mr lambrinidis not only as an efficient leader of votes in this house. with his experience, his training as a lawyer, his broad knowledge and his winning personality, he is the right man for the job. i thank you for your applause, which also shows that mr lambrinidis can count on the support of the members of this house.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 6 september 2012 in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday, tuesday, wednesday: no changes are made. thursday: the alde group requests that the report by mrs bowles on the european system of national and regional accounts, which is scheduled for voting time on thursday, be removed from the agenda.
the next item is the debate on the report by lara comi, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european standardisation and amending council directives 89/686/eec and 93/15/eec and directives 94/9/ec, 94/25/ec, 95/16/ec, 97/23/ec, 98/34/ec, 2004/22/ec, 2007/23/ec, 2009/105/ec and 2009/23/ec of the european parliament and of the council (com (((2011) 0315 c7-0150/2011 2011/0150 (((cod)) (a7-0069/2012).
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the proposal for european standardization has been discussed in this house for some time. i believe that at the end of this process, despite all the justified objections of vice-president reding, we can say that this measure, which is linked to commissioner barnier's single market act, has produced a good result for the european parliament as a whole. i would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, why i think we can congratulate mrs comi on this result. firstly, we have succeeded in making what we have called for more often in the past, namely that we need more directly applicable regulations instead of directives to be implemented, finally a reality at this point. secondly, we have succeeded - and this is always important for a dossier which is finally adopted in the trilogue at first reading - in strengthening the rights of the european parliament. in the past, only the council as an institution could stop proposals for standardisation. with this proposal before you today, which we are discussing and which will be voted on tomorrow, the european parliament also has the possibility of stopping proposals for standardisation by means of a resolution in this house, if there are again proposals, for example, to regulate crime prevention measures in the drawing up of building plans in some form of standardisation legislation, which led to some criticisms in some member states a few years ago. we are convinced that this proposal for a regulation takes account of the economic policy objectives of the whole of europe. firstly, it ensures that harmonised standards must remain market-oriented. it is very important in our view that we have ensured a stronger involvement of stakeholders, but they can only accompany the standardisation process itself if we have ensured, by introducing a notification system for third parties, that standards must also prove themselves in society, be observed by society and be accepted in society. this proposal will enable us to ensure that the authorities involved in the european standardisation process also have full access to the information. and we can ensure - and this is very important to us across the political groups - that small and mediumsized enterprises have full access to this and that the european standardisation landscape takes account of their special interests. unfortunately, that has not always been the case in the past. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not a one-off event. we must not, therefore, give the impression that we have reached a milestone here for small and mediumsized enterprises. it is an element, a building block of a strategy which we must firmly establish in the single market act ii. i hope that we will also be able to get the house's approval for the second single market act and all the measures we want to take for small and mediumsized enterprises.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i'll be brief and focus on the essentials. standards are an important and proven tool. they enable a common technical language, a common technical basis in the european internal market, and they are a good instrument for promoting innovation and sustainable development. the european approach has proved its worth and in times of economic crisis, the existing instruments should be carefully modernised without compromising their substance. we did that in the standardization. we have increased the participation of small and mediumsized enterprises and important groups in society, thereby improving the acceptance of standardization, but without compromising its structure, which is based on voluntary cooperation by the business sector, which also bears the costs of the procedure in the first place. the participation rights of small and mediumsized enterprises, consumer and environmental associations and trade unions could have gone further in my view. i am, however, prepared to accept a compromise on this point. we have extended standardization to the services sector, especially industrial services and the it sector is a major area for standardization. at the same time, however, it was important not to jeopardize the liberal professions and the creative potential of the liberal professions in the service sector. standardization is also a cost factor in the craft sector, for example. standardization should therefore only be carried out where there is a real market relevance. a multistakeholder platform will ensure this, will ensure the appropriate consultations. last but not least, it was important to us to maintain a clear separation between standardisation and legislation. the message from parliament is clear: we do not want legislation to be passed through the back door. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. to take the example of my colleague christel schaldemose, let's say you had a usb stick and each computer had different access points for that stick, we would all have to buy different adapters. this is just one example of the importance of standardisation and how it can make life easier for people, citizens and businesses. and that is a very important question that we have to discuss here. we in the european parliament have also succeeded in introducing many improvements into the european commission's text. i would like to thank both the rapporteur and our shadow rapporteur for their excellent work. however, there were two issues which were particularly important to us. the first was to support small and mediumsized enterprises, which was very important to us, and to ensure that standardisation and standardization were not only done by the big players, but also that the interests of smes were respected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we have also managed to ensure that support and also funding is secured in this area. the second area which was important to us was the exclusion of some of the services which have entered this process for the first time, in particular the exclusion of services of general economic interest and of what are very important professions. in this area, standardization can be very dangerous, because it is a question of creativity, of flexibility on the part of the service providers, which must be guaranteed. we have found a satisfactory compromise and we can agree to it as a group. but as i said, there was a lot of work to do, and i hope that in the future it will be a little easier.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank the rapporteur and, above all, the whole team of shadow rapporteurs for having this proposal which we are going to adopt tomorrow. much has been said about the benefits of standards. i would like to mention two other examples which we take for granted: the universal charger for mobile phones and the future realisation of electric mobility. without standards, this would not be possible. unfortunately, not everyone in society knows how standards are developed. it is not parliament - and it will not be in the future - but national, european and international institutions, such as cen and cenelec, that do this. the last 25 years have been a good time, but there have also been a number of shortcomings which we have now worked through. the development of standards has been far too slow, far too expensive, too opaque and too one-sided. we have now done away with that with this proposal, and we will make access cheaper for small and mediumsized enterprises too, we will involve the trade unions and the social partners, the consumer organizations, and we will link this up with national, international and european bodies. i also look forward to meaningful involvement in procurement. the last point is acceptance: we will have to test and verify how it is. the german din institute had great reservations about the development at the beginning of the debate. i think they've cleared it out by now. the small and mediumsized businesses in hesse, for example, have already given me feedback and said that they are satisfied with this compromise, with this proposal by the rapporteur and the imco committee, and that they see a number of improvements for the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. if we had been as anxious as we were 15 years ago during the bse crisis, when i was chairman of a committee, we would not have the security we have today in beef, which we can rely on. fifteen years ago it was taken for granted that an animal passport would be introduced and that two ear tags would be compulsory. we're hesitant again today! do we really need crises to make good decisions? the rapporteur said that this was not a matter of public health. yes, that's exactly what it is! it's about health policy, it's about public health. i admit that the introduction of a mandatory electronic identification system will require a certain amount of effort. that is why i have proposed in committee that we propose a transitional period of 10 years. but even that was too much for the majority in the committee. you're seriously going to stand up to your constituents and say you're serious about public health? no farmer would say, "oh, i can't do that in ten years". then we'll talk about voluntary labelling. we have said many times that we want to encourage farmers and producers to get closer to consumers and to provide information that is of interest to consumers. how old are the animals? how did they live? how were they fed? how were they raised? we provide this possibility with the voluntary system. this is used in all member states. the rapporteur now proposes that the essential features with conditions on how it is to be carried out be deleted. that means there should be a system, but there are no conditions. who seriously thinks that this can work? no single national authority would be able to control these parts. no one can afford that! that means you want to destroy an existing system. fortunately, the committee on the environment - and the rapporteur must be representing the committee on the environment - has decided by a majority to maintain this voluntary system as it stands. and i ask all my colleagues to support the amendments of the committee on the environment when we vote on them tomorrow. i also believe that we should consider simplifying the administrative aspects of the system. but then you have to simplify the system and take down the administrative hurdles and the complexities. you have to help the authorities. but the way that is being proposed here is the wrong way. i urge you to follow the decisions of the committee on the environment in the voluntary labelling, also in the interests of consumers and in the interests of farmers in the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it has already been said that many years ago we introduced measures in the bse crisis, and this concerns compulsory and voluntary declarations, which have led us to regain consumer confidence in beef. the system of voluntary information has developed in such a way - and has also led to competition on the market - that i do not want to do without it. i therefore think it is wrong for the commission to remove these voluntary data. of course we have to talk about de-bureaucratization. the rapporteur has put forward a proposal on how we can include this in the food information act. article 7 prohibits misconduct and so on. i ask the commission: is it possible, with this food information law, that we can introduce controls, that this can be done exactly? or should we leave that to the member states? this is a crucial point. the voluntary information must be preserved, it is an important part of the consumer system. i wish i had been a little more courageous in marking the animals. if you say that the electronic system does not work, then you do not need to introduce it, you should delete it immediately, and then you should leave it to the technicians to decide what they will do with it in the future. but both side by side in a single market, which i think is very wrong, it cannot work like that. we need a system for trade and exchange, and that can only be electronic in my view. if farmers complain that they are being punished for cross compliance if an ear tag falls out, that is much worse! the electronics don't fall out of the animal, they're in it. so you're much safer there.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we must be careful to discuss two issues here. i shall not now speak on the voluntary labelling of meat, but mainly on the electronic labelling of animals. and here, mr. schnellhardt, i must strongly disagree. the sheep farmers tell us very clearly that they are having great problems with the electronic labelling because there are technical failures. it's not that the tags are falling off the animals, but the technology is failing. the resulting error is blamed on the farmers. you can't do that! that's something we have to avoid with cattle. it is therefore right that we should continue to leave the cattle to voluntary work until this system is perfected. i am not saying that the system should not be developed or introduced. but it takes time to mature something. it is also important, particularly for public health, to question electronic labelling when it is not working. for the sake of public health, we clearly need security. until we have security, we should stick to volunteering.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking sophie auconie, who has done a great deal of work in this area. this was not an easy matter in the committee because of differences of opinion, and it is certainly no secret that there were also differences of emphasis within the group. but it is a good basis for negotiations with the council of ministers. it is important to us that consumer protection is a top priority. we have learned the lessons of the bse crisis. but at the same time, it is our farmers who have made it clear that we must also pay even more attention to importing products to ensure that the rules we have set together are also respected. we don't want any unnecessary red tape. this is the art of finding out where the maximum consumer protection is possible without us having unnecessary red tape. that is why, after intensive discussions within the group, we have once again introduced a clarification of article 1 (14) which provides that the labelling of foodstuffs will soon be able to include the particulars which have hitherto been covered by voluntary labelling in this context. but we want that controlled, too. mr schnellhardt has asked the right question to the commission: how can we ensure that consumers are not misled? we say that the competent authorities must control this and that sanctions must be imposed for violations. we shall go to the council after we have voted tomorrow. all sides must be flexible in order to achieve the common goal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up.
i have to say, madam president, i thank the rapporteur. of course we want simplification. we want to reduce bureaucracy and we want to reduce the effort. secondly, we do not want to destroy the existing electronic origin labelling systems in the member states. thirdly, we must therefore acknowledge that the level of implementation varies widely between member states. this leads us rightly to the political compromise not to prohibit the electronic marking of cattle and to develop it voluntarily. fourthly, i firmly believe that the industry will voluntarily introduce a system of identification of the origin of bovine animals. the compromise based on voluntary labelling is therefore also the right one. fifthly, we are likely to re-examine the regulation, and not for another ten years. we must remember that we farmers are being branded by the problems of introducing electronic identification of sheep. we do not want to make the same mistake with cattle.
in writing. the working conditions of women in the service sector are still not what we want them to be. 25% of all atypical employees work in the service sector: in the german retail trade there are almost one million minijobs. women in employment are particularly affected, accounting for eight out of ten of those employed in the service sector. we have already achieved a great deal in terms of gender equality and are well on our way to achieving even more. but it is particularly important in the context of services that an agreement on the posting of workers directive finally be reached. women are particularly affected: 58% of all women employed in temporary work in germany are employed in service industries. the proportion of women in employment, for example, is much higher in care services than in many other sectors, and working conditions are often very poor. what we need are adequate minimum wages, maximum working hours and safety standards for all women workers in europe. we can only achieve these objectives if we set clear rules for the posting of workers by temporary employment agencies. i am therefore glad that the rapporteur has taken up the subject of mobility in her opinion. we call for a clearly regulated legal framework for the european internal market in services to prevent precarious employment and discrimination.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what happened in the mediator case was a huge scandal. we don't know exactly how many people have died, but we're talking about 500 to 2,000, but each death is one too many. there was some irresponsible behavior by the company, but unfortunately there were also some loopholes. these loopholes must be closed urgently. i am therefore very grateful to linda mcavan, to the shadow rapporteurs, particularly pilar ayuso of the epp group, and to commissioner john dalli, who has made the proposal quickly and has been very constructive throughout the procedure. it is important that in future, when a medicinal product is not marketed any more, precise reasons are given - no one should be left in the dark - and that information is shared between member states in an informed and precise manner so that such cases are not repeated. my colleague anja weisgerber and i then tabled this amendment to the pharmaceutical facts box in addition to what the commission has already proposed. i would like to emphasize that in english we should not speak of blackbox, but of drug factbox. because it doesn't have to be a black box. this is perhaps one of the reasons why this proposal, which the commission has already made, has been rejected in the past. a black box may not be the right way to point out such things. but we need to improve the package insert. in the united states, we have a proven system of drug fact boxes, but we still have the problem that our package insert is too complicated. and i'm going to say something simplistic and hyperbolic, there are two kinds of patients: some people don't even read the package insert because they don't understand it anyway, and they throw it away. another type reads it carefully, is horrified by the many potential side effects, and then does not take the drug. i've experienced both as a doctor. both are wrong, of course. we need a collaboration between doctors and patients. if you experience serious side effects, you should seek medical attention as soon as possible. but you must also take the medicine as prescribed. this is especially important with antibiotics, you can't stop taking the drug, if you feel a little better, then resistance can develop. all this could be presented in a pharmaceutical information box much better than in the present package leaflets. and, as i said, in the united states, this has worked. i am therefore very grateful to the commissioner for agreeing to include it in the further examinations and i hope that we will receive a proposal as soon as possible.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, linda mcavan, on her excellent work. good pharmacovigilance is protecting european citizens. at the same time, we're also strengthening the adult patient. it was therefore very important to close the security gaps that had been revealed and revealed by the mediator case as quickly as possible. from now on, a company withdrawing a medicine from the market must state the reasons for doing so. the european medicines agency also informs the other member states, which is also essential for protecting patients in the european single market. one point i particularly like is the improved readability of the package leaflets. many patients complain about the complexity of the package leaflets: too heavy, too incomprehensible, too illegible, too confusing. a subject which particularly concerns the elderly population, but not only the elderly population. in fact, some patients are so distracted by the side effects of the drug that they do not take it in the first place. that is why i have worked with peter liese to make the package leaflet more readable for patients and to have a medication information box on the package leaflet that gives the most important information, including side effects, in plain language and highlighted graphically. i am very pleased with the outcome of the negotiations and with the fact that the european commission, commissioner dalli, has also agreed to present a report on better readability. i hope that the commission will honour its promise and do so as soon as possible. i would like to know - and i am glad to have commissioner dalli here today - whether there are any concrete ideas on this. i'd be really interested in that. i am grateful to the commission for taking this up, because i think it is a really big step towards patient friendliness if we improve the package insert and make it more readable!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur. we have had very constructive cooperation recently on this very subject. the result on the table today is a compromise. the nature of compromise is that everyone is both satisfied and dissatisfied with it. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we have been pursuing air quality policy for years in other areas where i think we often overshot the mark and also adopted measures which are not very efficient. we're going the right way here. however, there are some objections. we have now, by the very rapid agreement at first reading, got past some of the arguments and concerns of some of the players in the european single market. we may have consequences of this legislation, which we can foresee today but which we will ultimately ignore completely, by 2015, when de facto sulphur-free fuel is mandatory in the sulphur control areas, which are essentially the north and baltic seas. it cannot be in the spirit of this legislation that the higher fuel costs, particularly in the case of lorry ferry traffic in the north sea and the baltic sea, cause lorries to turn around at the ferry ports and take the land route which may be available as an alternative to the short sea route. we did not think of that, nor was it considered when the marpol agreement was concluded. we have simply passed over these arguments. i am afraid that in two years' time we shall have to deal with this situation again here in the northern territory. i am very much in favour of unifying things in europe. but we also have to be aware that this cannot happen at the highest level. i can understand some of the arguments put forward by the southern countries, particularly those in the mediterranean, who doubtfully say that they have other priorities than the introduction of sulphur-free fuel. this costs money, and every national resource is only used once. i think that this is a step in the right direction, but in the end we have also written into law the inequalities in competition within the eu. the last sentence on this subject: to meet the needs of the northern europeans with state aid cannot be the right way, because in the end it will lead to distortions of competition within the northern european countries. one state will pay, the other won't.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the eu must put an end to the tens of thousands of premature deaths caused by ship emissions each year. outside the seca, the ship's engines are burning quasi-special waste. the eu is far behind the usa or canada in this respect. only low sulphur fuel is allowed on the coast here. i think that the present proposal to amend the directive represents a considerable improvement. this is also due to the persistence of the rapporteur. but better limits are only half the rent. it is equally important to implement and enforce them. the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include the following provisions: the member states and the commission are the key players here. they must enforce the rules and, if necessary, impose significant penalties.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a member of the committee on transport, i would like to point out once again that the european union has taken a clear position on its transport strategies. from road to sea and short-shipping and motorways of the sea are eloquent examples of this. i also want to dispel some of the myths that are being spread around here that the ships are, so to speak, mobile waste incinerators on this blue planet. the specific energy consumption per tonne and per kilometre, per passenger and per kilometre, is the lowest in shipping, better than rail and better than lorries. that is why, commissioner potočnik, it is absolutely essential that we agree on a sensible investment programme for the introduction of new fuels, because if we move towards diesel quality, we still have this impact assessment that is missing and says, is it going in the opposite direction, from sea to road? and we don't want that right now. that is why it is necessary, if we want to make new fuels available, such as lng, that we establish an infrastructure in our ports in the baltic and the north sea so that shipping can also refuel there. and the scrubbers, the flue-gas desulphurisation plants, need to be developed further. these are very important matters, and i wanted to stress them again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. air quality is an important issue in the european union, especially in the coming year. it is the year of the air, and we should also be attentive and work to make progress there. we must also take into account that maritime transport is currently experiencing one of the most serious crises in history. i am very concerned about the technology that is being used to clean up the air. we must also ensure that alternatives are identified in the financial perspective. the honourable member has just mentioned that lng is a very good alternative in the seca areas. but for that we need research and development. it's also a stimulus program for our shipyards. especially the scrubber technology. she's not ready for that yet. i sometimes get the feeling that some of my colleagues think that you just have to reach into a shelf and the technology is there. she's not ready yet. that is why we need to pay more attention and focus more on promoting technology so that we can really get clean air in ports and port cities. and please also be careful who pays for the event at the end of the day!
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i want to start by saying that of all our energy and environmental policy goals, energy efficiency is the most underrated and perhaps the most important. this is why we had to commit ourselves to energy efficiency, alongside our policy to promote renewable energy and the overall objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions - we as the commission, but with the strong commitment of parliament. when i look back over the last two and a half to three years, the impetus to make energy efficiency a binding objective of european energy policy did not come from the council. it was adopted by the european council in 2007, but has not been updated since. the national ministers were rather reticent, sometimes even reluctant, without the willingness to accept binding directives. parliament has urged. i would like to thank you personally, mr turmes, and also your colleagues in the other groups. not only have you done a strong job of lobbying, you've also done a good job of negotiating. this was not just a matter of facts, figures and statistics. it was also a matter of diplomacy. it was a long shot, but it worked. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what's the matter? firstly, we want to and can use energy efficiently, i.e. use energy, reduce energy waste, increase energy use, save energy, reduce imports of primary energy. the amount of oil, gas, coal, biomass and uranium that we import does not have to increase, but can be limited. secondly, we want to reduce our costs in the long term, that is to say, the expenditure that our citizens and our economy have to spend on energy. thirdly, we want to reduce emissions and contribute to climate protection. and fourthly, we also want to use the skills that our citizens have - engineering and craft skills - to secure and strengthen jobs. these are the four objectives which make energy efficiency a binding objective at european level. the commission proposal was not as far-reaching as many in parliament had expected: we have not introduced a binding requirement at the moment. we have proposed binding measures, binding standards for certain areas, public buildings and more. but the proposal is a little behind what some colleagues in parliament were expecting. it was also weakened during the negotiations. however, what is now on the table, what you are going to discuss and adopt in the council in parallel, is not just a hollow statement, but it is a substance that works. with what we are proposing now, we will essentially achieve our 20% efficiency target. i am counting on the member states to implement it on a one-to-one basis. but not just this. we are also building on the fact that there are member states doing more. i would therefore like to expressly mention the idea of a competition here today. i would be delighted if in two, three or four years' time we could see that the member states are not only complying with binding european laws, but are actually exceeding them, doing more! i would like to invite you to a competition to find the best member state which is doing more than is required by european law in the field of energy efficiency. our work is not over. i see three tasks for the commission, firstly to monitor implementation, implementation in the member states, and to look at the progress reports, that is, year by year: are we moving forward with decreasing energy consumption? if so, where? if not, why? we will then, as the current barroso ii commission, before the end of our term in 2014, present a progress report to tell the next commission, the next parliament, if necessary, that we are succeeding or that more must be done at european level. then we will go into more sectors with more products with eco-design and eco-labels, so that we can make more concrete progress in this field, as we announced. all in all, this is a good day. if we consider that at present at european level - you are here and we are affected - almost all the focus is on the sovereign debt crisis and the concern for the euro, today's draft law and your compromise result are an example of europe both designing and acting. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new energy policy. once again, thank you to everyone involved.
adopted by the commission on 27 june. the commission has already made a number of proposals. energy efficiency is the most cost-effective way to save fossil fuels and co2. for every euro we spend, we can achieve much more with energy efficiency than if we rely on renewable energy alone. and for electricity that is not used at all, you do not need new grids or expensive backup power plants. so i want to thank all of you who have contributed to this result. we rely on incentives above all else. the heart of the directive article 6 requires member states to introduce incentives for smes and citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. the committee on the environment was very interested in solving the problem of emissions trading. the heart of europe's climate policy is not working. i am therefore grateful to the commission for having put forward initial proposals. we need incentives for industry and we need revenue for the state to provide those incentives. but the commission must clarify its proposals. the commission has not yet done everything that is stated in the statement.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i too would like to welcome the 20 2020 environmental objectives. on the co2 reduction, we will exceed our target. share of renewable energy: we will exceed our target. energy efficiency: we are on the right track here too, at least in terms of energy use relative to economic output. the epp has unfortunately not been able to win the case with this definition. we are now equating energy efficiency with energy saving in the directive. it's not the same. saving money doesn't automatically make me more efficient. in many countries, austerity measures may even threaten the expected economic growth. the rapporteur's behaviour was unfortunate. what he calls strip poker was sometimes a provocation by the other factions. there were sometimes missing offers to the council. it was slaps. a diplomatic approach could have achieved more in the spirit of this directive and in the spirit of the environment. we therefore welcome the fact that we have finally been able to achieve some compromises. the savings targets are flexible and can be implemented by each member state according to specific needs. early actions, flexibility in the ets sector and also the recognition of support programmes and tax relief have been taken into account. finally, we have also saved the municipalities 3% of the annual compulsory cleaning. it is good that the commission and the greens have had to adapt their wishful thinking to the reality of public finances and high energy prices. in short, less european planning and bureaucracy, more flexibility and responsibility for the member states, and that in the environmental sense - that is a great result! one thing remains unclear: what impact will this directive have on the ets system? we have not asked for a reduction in allocation. a check, yeah. we must be very careful that the increasing number of european environmental standards - including this directive - do not undermine the market economy trading of emissions. if we decide to make changes to the ets system, the emphasis will be on 'we'. the commission cannot impose decisions of this magnitude through the comitology procedure. we are asking for a full parliamentary participation here!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have agreed that energy conservation is a huge challenge. this was the advantage. we have finally achieved something with a lot of work and a lot of energy from many colleagues. i would have preferred a different outcome, namely the outcome of committing ourselves to a binding objective and then leaving it to the member states to decide for themselves how to achieve that objective. we would have had less regulation, we would have had fewer regulations, we would have given people fewer excuses to get upset about european policy, and perhaps we would have gotten a better result in the end if we had done it with incentives rather than regulations. but it didn't work because in the end, a compromise has to be reached and because there was a lot of resistance and difficulties. sometimes i think, claude, maybe you should have been a little more flexible and not played all-or-nothing to achieve such a result. it's an acceptable result, but i wish i had a better one.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the energy you don't use is the best energy. it is not about saving energy, but about using energy efficiently. i would have liked to have done more in one area, namely the public sector. there is a huge potential, a huge investment bottleneck, that lies with the municipalities. i would have liked parliament to have taken a more ambitious approach. we've been through the process here, some of it without much trouble. a colleague, a shadow reporter, brought it up, and i thought he was going to vote against the whole compromise. if this is so terrible, why didn't he consider a second reading? in society, with such an important subject, i would have liked a second reading, so that one could discuss the whole package with one's own mind, with one's own chambers. more transparency in this area would have done us good. and i want to wish that for the next time. the rapporteur has decided that, but i say again to the honourable members: two readings are the rule in this house. and that has become the exception in this legislature. we should all recall that and think about it.
mr president, if there is no opposition to this in the house i would ask you to take a roll-call vote on paragraph 43, all parts, and on the final vote. we have been contacted by patients, with brain cancer for example, by hospitals and by smes, to say that we need to change the existing legislation and this is in paragraph 43. if we want to send a clear signal to the commission, it needs to be documented that we have a big majority in the house, so a roll-call vote please for paragraph 43, all parts, and the final vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a comment on behalf of the epp group on the voting procedure for the minutes. it is obvious that the german translation has been irritated during the proceedings, in which the rapporteur has also intervened, contrary to the spirit of the negotiations. it was negotiated in english. i would therefore like to make it clear to the epp that the terms cost effective and cost efficient are to be used in the sense of the german word 'cost-efficient'. the term 'cost-effective' used by the language service does not reflect the spirit of the negotiations, nor is it sufficiently clearly defined. we therefore expect that, as in the building directive, cost effective and cost efficient should be translated uniformly as 'cost efficient'. if this is not the case, we urge that this be changed in the translation. i would like to refer to a letter to the tabling office signed by all the german-speaking epp members, the s&d members and also the liberals, i.e. a large majority of the german-speaking members. they can't all have gotten that wrong!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the motion, although i had some stomach pains. but in the end, i was convinced that, firstly, it was necessary, and secondly, that our decision also opened up the possibility of putting cost efficiency at the centre of our concerns. it is not about saving energy at all costs, but above all about making the whole thing pay off. if we create the necessary conditions as unbureaucratically as possible, we have the famous win-win situation that the economy will bounce back, that we will create new employment opportunities in the so-called green area. but i say again: we need an alliance with the economy to make it all worthwhile and meaningful.
in writing. - i have approved the report, albeit with a great deal of grinding of the teeth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the basic idea is correct, the epp shadow rapporteur, mr pieper, has managed to prevent even worse, with great effort. we'll see where the train goes when we do it.
in writing. - this directive is a classic case of 'we have prevented worse, but it is not good'. the eu commission's proposal on energy efficiency had massive planned economy features: "annual savings targets for energy companies", in this case of 1.5 % of their energy sales to the final customer from the previous year without exceptions or substitution measures, remind me very much of our former east german planned economy under communism. the epp has managed to prevent the worst, but the savings target remains the same. however, there is a more flexible set of measures to achieve this, such as tax relief for energy efficiency investments. in addition, only central governments will have to renovate 3% of their public buildings and not the entire public administration, including, for example, municipalities. i shall nevertheless remain critical of both the content and the procedure. we must now make sure that our businesses and our citizens have access to affordable electricity, and not wait in a hazy courtroom for the next world-improver directive, which has already been negotiated before the whole of parliament has had a chance to deal with it. for these reasons i voted against this report, although i am very grateful for the work and effort of my colleague, dr markus pieper.
in writing. - the report is important and correct in its content, and i have approved it. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force. these questions clearly need to be clarified. human rights are also non-negotiable.
in writing. - i have approved the report. this will give european winegrowers more planning certainty and will ensure a transitional period for 2014. in the coming months, a lasting solution must be found for all european wine growers within the framework of the cap.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am pleased to present to you today, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, the annual report on the common foreign and security policy. i am also pleased to report here that yesterday and the day before yesterday we reached an agreement with the national parliaments on a permanent european parliament/national parliaments conference on terms which promise a good future. i also had the impression at this conference that all the parliaments within the european union are interested in the success of foreign and security policy and that it is worthwhile to see this cooperation, bearing in mind the democratic legitimacy of foreign and security policy. i am glad that we are doing this at a time when we are seeing some initial successes in the building up of the foreign service. a difficult process, which certainly cannot be completed yet. but we are seeing first stabilizing elements, and we also saw at the conference with the eu ambassadors in the world last week that a crew is slowly coming together. we want a coherent foreign and security policy, one that emphasises the importance of setting priorities and of using resources accordingly. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. we hope that the possibilities offered by the lisbon treaty, of bringing together responsibilities in one person and one service, will lead to further synergies leading to a unified strategy for the european union's external policy. i believe that there is still room for improvement upwards, including the question of leadership at european level. the principle of unanimity still prevails, that through the quality of leadership, the nation states also come closer to a one-voice policy. i think it's important. we have critical and positive points. i have to say, madam vice-president of the commission/high representative, that your approach to iran's nuclear programme, your policy on syria and the middle east - and indeed american foreign policy in recent months - is largely perceived by us as positive. however, we are still a little bit concerned with synergy effects and coherent policy in general, we still see gaps there and we hope that the development will be in this direction. parliament can play an important role, not only in terms of democratic legitimacy, but also by organising cooperation with the parliaments of the arab spring, for example, in the framework of the neighbourhood policy, and by contributing to the eastern neighbourhood policy, so that this neighbourhood policy leads to more democracy and the rule of law, and that this could also give us the strength to gain legitimacy and credibility to play a greater role in foreign policy. these are important tasks which we must take care of. we must look after the interests of our citizens. we must ensure that human rights are part of this coherent policy and that we get a reasonable balance between interest policy and human rights policy in matters of neighbourhood policy, trade policy and more. i hope that the appointment of the new special representative for human rights will play an important role in this. but we also need to make sure that we increasingly recognize that, in addition to the need for increased military cooperation, to achieve synergies in these areas, especially here, we also need to see economic policy increasingly deciding over security policy and foreign policy influence. today, wars are often won not by tanks but by financial markets. the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. the fact that other parts of the world are using this instrument to gather power for themselves in foreign policy is an important reason why we as europeans, as members of our states, have only one chance if this is integrated into a common foreign and security policy with a common economic and monetary policy, because this is the only chance that our nation states have of having a future in this world through sharing and pooling.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. as many have already said, our debate is taking place against the background of the european union's most serious economic, social and political crisis. it also means that there is not enough time and energy left in the central government in europe to deal with the many pressing foreign policy problems. the european union's much too sluggish response to the terrible events in syria and our much too rapidly waning interest in the democratic transformation of north africa are just two examples. another example is the very slow construction of our delegation office in tripoli. europe is not only lacking in time and attention, but also in money. the budget of the foreign ministers and the european parliament will not be spared the financial crisis. in this situation we must, and you too, mrs ashton, must, set clear priorities. in addition to better exploiting synergies at european level, this can only mean moving away from the often very expensive response to escalating crises, towards more conflict prevention. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe to find a peaceful solution to the conflict. but we are not yet fully exploiting this potential, and our trade, fisheries, agricultural and development policies must finally become conflict sensitive so that they help prevent conflict rather than fuel it. the effective structures for this are still lacking. at the same time, we need to strengthen the newly created structures in the external action service for conflict prevention and mediation and to bring their expertise to bear on eu foreign policy as a whole. another promising approach is the idea of a european peace institute. the foreign affairs committee will discuss this idea with swedish foreign minister carl bildt next week. i hope that you will support me in this and i look forward to your replies.
i have to say, madam president, as the epp coordinator for security and defence, i wanted to say in detail that you are unfortunately not implementing the european parliament's demands in the danjean, ehler, gualtieri and lisek reports. i am sure that some of the colleagues mentioned will do so later. i would like to thank you for your comments on the political situation in ukraine. they called it selective justice. i would call what is happening there political justice. just a few metres from here, yulia tymoshenko and yuri losenko are fighting for their dignity and human rights in front of the european court of human rights. there is a conference in yalta next weekend. the commissioner füle must make it clear that europe wants a strong ukrainian partner. but the oligarchy clubs are afraid of mature citizens, afraid of competition and the rules of decency and law. the path of the oligarchs leads to exploitation, crime and brutality. that is not the way of europe. europe has open societies, a social market economy and the rule of law. we know today that ukraine will not have free elections. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not affected by the fraudulent practices of the member states. we have hundreds of examples. the fact that opposition leaders are being held as political prisoners is a tragedy for freedom and democracy in europe, in ukraine as well as in belarus. in our southern neighbourhood, we are witnessing the end of many autocrats and the spring of democracy, at least in part. mrs. ashton, mr. fule, you are going to yalta. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full part in the development of the union.
blue-card question. – mr van orden, you just criticised the fact that human rights have been mentioned 43 times in this report. could you possibly give us any advice on how often we should mention them next year?
vice-president of the commission/high representative. − madam president, it has certainly been an interesting debate, with a complete range of views and thoughts on every aspect of the common foreign and security policy, and indeed a couple on me. i want to start with something that was said about the need to ensure economic resurgence and the security of the needs of our people. i agree with that. it is important to recognise that the purpose of trying to collaborate effectively on foreign and security policy is, above everything, to support the needs of our own people. making sure that we bring prosperity is about trade deals and about economic opportunity. it is also about ensuring that others get economic opportunity – to their benefit and to ours. ensuring that we have a secure and safer planet, especially in our neighbourhood, is also about ensuring that we have safety and security for our own people. countries that are close to syria or which are experiencing the challenges of transition in the southern neighbourhood know this only too well, because they saw people trying to flee from terrible tragedy and to come and stay in the european union. so there are many ways in which that is precisely what this is all about. when people got together and said what we need is a common foreign and security policy, it was because they saw not that member states were not able to do things individually, but that there were many things they could do better together. it is a very simple proposition and nobody should get hysterical about what that means for sovereignty or this, that and the other. it is about what makes sense when you do things together, and indeed a number of honourable members pointed to good examples. i tried to show, in describing this comprehensive approach which is a strategic approach, that actually it is not just about dealing with conflict. conflict needs to be dealt with, but it is also about what you do before and what you do afterwards. so our engagement with libya will not just be for this year, it will be for the years to come until we are confident and they are confident that they have built the institutions that they need, that they have got political security. by the way, they are looking at the diversification of their economy and they are worrying about what has happened to weapons that have gone south from libya into the sahel. i could give you example after example of what we do. what we do is we work on conflict prevention and we work on how to support peace building and we work together, 27 member states around the foreign affairs council who do things where they agree, and where they agree they give me the mandate to operate on their behalf. everybody should welcome and celebrate that because that is about recognition by all of them that there is something more to be done where we work together. i agree, by the way, with mrs neynsky about the need to have greater synergy. absolutely. we look for that all the time. there is something about trying to set up a new service in an economic crisis that means you have to think in cleverer ways about the use of resources and you have to work together. that applies in defence, where we are pooling and sharing and where we are looking at the results of libya that showed us we needed to do more about refuelling in mid-air and where we are working directly with nato. we are also looking at the synergy of member states collaborating in buildings across the world, where sharing common services makes more sense for the diplomatic service or where, by doing things together, we can have more impact and we can support countries more effectively because we are not all trying to do the same thing. countries and foreign ministers say to me quite often, please, we do not want to have a procession of different ministers coming, can we not just talk with the european union and then you spread out the message of what we need, because every time somebody else comes it is more time that they cannot spend on the things that matter. so this is about making sense of doing it together – planning better, working together effectively, not taking away but adding value to what member states do. i agree as well that you have to think strategically, and i mean by that not just geographically, but horizontally. water, energy, education: there are big issues that i have already pointed to and which really do affect not just the lives of other people but ultimately ours too. ensuring the quality of water for children and for adults across the world has an impact. it has an impact on us and it has an impact, more importantly, on them. then there is ensuring the provision of water, with all the complexity of what is now happening on the nile and the desire for different countries to use water in different ways. there are enormous challenges in that region. we can help to support them to work out – and they ask us to support them to work out – how to deal with that, being aware of the challenges of water in areas where this can lead to conflict. we have got to be clear, as i said, about what we offer and we have got to be clear about what we offer across the world. i want to say specifically to mrs gomes, about ethiopia – and i will also be speaking on eritrea briefly – that we have worked incredibly hard (and i was very grateful to louis michel) on trying to resolve the issue not just of the swedish journalists but of many others. i explained earlier on about the need to engage with countries and with politicians, as well as to be clear about our expectations of them. we have done that and we have sought, and will continue to seek, an inclusive approach to what happens in ethiopia. i will also say, because now i can, that the swedish government asked us not to make a lot of noise in our work to try and release the hostages, the journalists. that is also very important. sometimes i think people forget that when you are trying to get people out, occasionally you have to do it more quietly, because that is what is going to have greatest effect and impact. we will send you a comprehensive list of all the demarches and letters that will show you everything we have done on ethiopia. do not leap to the assumption that just because you do not hear about something it does not mean it is not happening, because every day we are working on a whole raft of issues and it is important that you realise that. i do not have any more information, mr schmidt, on what is happening with the poor gentlemen who is in eritrea, david. we have been in touch with them as you know. we have delivered the habeas corpus that you asked us to do and we are still trying to get as much information as possible, but it is incredibly difficult. as you said, and as has been said in commission meetings, 4 000 days is a horrendous amount of time for him. we will continue the efforts that we are making with others, because the partnership that we have with countries like the united states and others is really important. just two more quick points. strategically we work with everyone. it is not about the eu being the greatest thing on earth that only works by itself. absolutely not. most of what we do is in partnership with others, with member states for sure, with the united nations, with the arab league, with the organisation of islamic cooperation, with the asean countries and with others. think about how one tackles the challenges of a country like burma/myanmar. when i met with aung san suu kyi, she talked about the need for us to coordinate because, as a country, they find it very difficult to deal with so many offers and with the many competing opportunities that businesses wish to have in their country, and they need help. they do not have the infrastructure, they do not have the knowledge, they do not have the systems. that is where we can offer support to countries to meet the challenge to move forward. my final point is about priorities. i agree, i set out three: build a service – bring people from eight buildings into one; develop the delegations – bring the lisbon treaty to life in terms of what we do on the ground; and work in our neighbourhoods, where we should be judged and have the strongest strategic partnerships we possible. those are my priorities for my mandate. i still believe in them and that is what i do every day. just as has been shown in this debate, every day there are other issues that people believe should be number one on the agenda. in the course of this debate you have covered every continent and you have covered a huge number of countries into which you individually believe we should put our energy. i agree with you that it is about trying to be effective across the world, working with others. we will continue to do that. we will not be scatter-gun, but will be effective and efficient in what we do. as things grow, this will get better and better. all i would say is: do not be patient for the wrong reasons, but recognise that we are absolutely at the beginning.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to add my voice to your last remarks on value added. we must develop a clear strategy for ourselves on the question of how europe should be positioned and positioned in the new global order. if we don't do that, if we don't know how to position ourselves there, we're always going to be reactive. we very often conduct foreign policy as day-to-day politics, pushing unprepared to work on this position and being only reactive on these issues. this is also due to the fact that - in addition to the weaknesses we still have in the european union - the member states often refuse to do so. and if i have listened to some of our british colleagues here, they have still not understood that the added value lies in the common good and that no european state is able to work alone to improve its situation in the world. this realization must be clear. we want to be able to take a common position not only on consular matters but also on major strategic issues. how can we integrate the transatlantic community, including south america, to indicate a strategic approach? what is the relationship with asian developments? we also need to make clear that the preventive approach is the right one, geoffrey van orden. we stand together for our interests and only together can we make them come true. but it's necessary that we do this together with human rights, with justice in this world, with social equity in this world. because we have seen too many times in north africa that stability alone is not the solution, there is only stability when it is linked to law, to human rights and to social justice. it is the only way to increase our standing in the world order. we should work more closely together on this overall strategy. it is not a comprehensive strategy for each of the 27 foreign ministers to walk around tahrir square with a camera team, in order to record in this way that he invented the arab spring. that is not the way we are going to move europe forward.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not i have a question for mr verhofstadt. he is talking about war and civil war, and i would like to ask him whether he has any idea of the forces that are fighting the regime in syria and whether there is a danger that the situation will be abused by islamist and totalitarian forces, particularly with regard to the minorities in syria, with regard to the christians in syria and many other groups. is it not necessary to push for a political solution more strongly, especially because of the extremist wings that may exist within the syrian opposition?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. five months after president putin's forced re-election, eu-russia relations have reached a nerve point. we should finally take an honest look at ourselves and stop pretending. we've been looking for a strategic partnership for years, but we haven't got one. we're a long way from that. our policy of containment and appeasement has reached its limits. the conflicts we have just discussed between syria and iran show that we do not share common interests and that we seem to have divergent goals. the asian despotisms and autocracies are closer to the kremlin than the liberal west. this is the case with the ambitious project of a eurasian union which lacks a convincing political and economic foundation. the modernisation agreement has not gone beyond declarations of intent, and the new government does not exactly show a desire for modernisation. on the contrary, i am. the recent laws passed by a duma that has not yet been legitimized throw russia back. these laws are biased and deliberately vague, to open the door to arbitrary justice. the terrible trials of khodorkovsky and pussy riot, or the criminal prosecution and the terrible death of sergei magnitsky, are proof of this. in russia, whether crimes are prosecuted does not depend on the fact of the crime, but on whether the procedure is politically convenient for the ruling elite or even useful. russia is no longer on the path to the rule of law, but in the opposite direction. our unilateral efforts and collaborations, modernizations, seem more like a change through supply. the kremlin sees this as a recognition of its political line. we should therefore take the consequence of putting these questions to the test.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i want to make two points. you may not see it, but i'm not a fan of punk music. one of those groups we're all familiar with by now, pussy riot. you can argue about it, and i see it a little differently from lady ashton, whether this was a civil protest or just a rowdy thing in a place that hurt deep feelings in other people. we can even discuss the level of punishment for such a thing. two years, we all agree, is way beyond that. but what should worry us and what should worry the russians, especially in their own country, is the clear sign that this trial is again one that was determined by the influence of politics on the judiciary. this is not possible! second, there is this ngo law, which - it has already been said - has been deliberately worded in a vague way so that it can be interpreted as needed. we need clear lines. the best thing to do is to put the whole law where it belongs, in the trash. but, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot tell me that we are now having to review everything we do with russia. i am firmly convinced that - we had a discussion with our russian colleagues in st petersburg a week and a half ago - that the only sensible way to make a difference is to keep talking to them and keep talking to civil society. i am not one of those who believe that the discussion of resolutions by just under 3% of meps has a better chance of success.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. lady ashton has spoken of the awakening of russian civil society. russian civil society has been wide awake for a long time. the governments of most of the member states of our european union are asleep. i am therefore very grateful to lady ashton for the clear and lucid analysis which she has presented here today. but we must now move from analysis to action. khodorkovsky, that name, like magnitsky and many others mentioned today, stands for the backward development of weak approaches to the rule of law in russia. as a committed christian, i would like to say that i believe that pussy riot are much more christian than some of the church's most senior figures. because they have clearly said that this is the essence of their statement: the patriarch should obey god more than putin. we do not need a church of putin's grace, we do not need an economy of putin's grace, we do not need a duma of putin's grace, we do not need a pseudo-rule of law of putin's grace. and if we continue - and mr schulz is absolutely right - to pursue this policy of appeasement, we shall also be witnessing a european union at the mercy of mr putin. that is why i say very clearly: we must put the rule of law at the centre of our talks with russia. mr fleckenstein is right. we must speak to russia, not in the way he has spoken here, but in the clear language that the european parliament has always used when it comes to human rights. here, the big one cannot be spared and only the small one can be clearly addressed. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question for the commissioner: mr posselt, do you not agree that the success of this clear language of this parliament leaves something to be desired and that we therefore need both? we need to work together, develop projects together and speak a clear language in the hope that something will move. second question: would you, as a devout catholic, have felt the same way if the whole thing had taken place in the vatican or perhaps in your church in munich? that would probably be the end of the west for you.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. secondly, there is a different political system here. i have no understanding at all if this courageous protest, which is a cry of distress, is belittled here. that's a cry for help! the fact that a member state has a prime minister - like one of our neighbours - who speaks publicly in favour of putin is a clear example of this. the credibility of this european union is in fact called into question. the european parliament must be the voice of credibility here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr torvalds said that one of the biggest failures of the eu so far was to have the common fisheries policy as we have it at the moment. i think he's right. he also said that this is an economic, social and environmental disaster for the fisheries sector. fisheries is not only a place where food is produced or caught, but it is also one of the oldest industries in the world and we want to preserve it for the future. i thank all the rapporteurs for that. i think we've made a big step forward today. i know how committed mrs damamaki is to this area. we need, for example, aquaculture as a response to overfishing. i am very interested in integrated maritime policy, which is also about space, about maritime spatial planning. and there are some interesting concepts that you could integrate into, for example, aquaculture into offshore wind farms. this is the music of the future, but we have to see how we can best expand this sector. finally, a small success story from germany: north and baltic sea fisheries policy has led to the slow recovery of cod, herring and hake stocks. i wish all of us that all fish stocks in europe will recover in the future.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i will try to answer the questions of the members on behalf of my colleague mr cioloş. you are aware that the reform of the sugar cmo was introduced in november 2005 and that this reform was aimed at increasing the competitiveness of the european sugar sector. the beet sugar sector was suffering, with many factories closing, and the refined cane sugar sector had, at that time, a budget of eur 150 million to enable it to become more competitive. the reform also abolished the distinction between traditional refiners and sugar refiners, with a three-year transitional period ending in 2009. at the same time, the european union granted duty-free access to acp and ast countries, with a safeguard clause ready to be triggered if imports exceeded 3.5 million tonnes, including 1.6 million tonnes from non-ldc acp countries. in 2005, a wto panel limited exports to 1.35 million tonnes. following the sugar reform, the sugar quota was reduced to a level of 13,3 million tonnes compared to a sugar quota of 17,4 million tonnes in 2004-05. as a result, 41% of the factories were closed. at the same time, refining capacity has increased by more than 1.5 million tonnes in the eu-27 and 'traditional' refiners have decided to increase their capacity by 1.15 million tonnes over the last five years. current imports are made on the basis of preferential agreements with the acp and least developed countries, amounting to 1.8 million tonnes this year, which, together with the 670 000 tonnes from brazil, the 380 000 tonnes from the balkans and the 400 000 tonnes from the reduced rate tenders, gives a total of 3.2 million tonnes for the current year. for the following marketing year, quotas of almost 300 000 tonnes are opened with central and south america and 400 000 tonnes of sugar are imported each year in the form of processed products. the 2009-2010 campaign was atypical. world prices were higher than those in the european union, the first time this had happened in 50 years. as a result, the acp countries preferred to sell their domestic goods on the world market or on the domestic market and did not deliver the quantities planned for the european union. the balance of the european union market has been threatened for our consumers. the 2005 reform is very clear: only then is the commission authorised to take action. in order to balance the market, the commission therefore authorised imports on preferential terms and the placing on the eu market of out-of-quota sugar during the 2010-2011 and 2011-2012 marketing years. the use of these measures was balanced in terms of both volume and conditions. in total, 2.35 million tonnes of additional sugar were placed on the eu market, of which 1.25 million tonnes were imported. it is true that some refiners complain of insufficient sugar supply, and some of you are wondering the same thing. so what's the deal? first, this view is not unanimously shared by european refiners. secondly, what do the import figures say? before the 2005 reform, imports were 2,3 million tonnes. since the reform, they have increased. so to say that there is less sugar imported and that some companies would have difficulty in doing so is not true. so what's the real problem? a more detailed analysis of the situation by member state and refining company shows that the refining sector in europe has entered the market economy and has been subject to competition, as intended by the 2005 reform. the competition between refiners today is real. some member states and refiners have increased their refining capacity by securing their supply in third countries. for other refiners, it is noted that the volume of supply has decreased since the reform, while total european imports have increased. this is therefore a purely commercial strategy problem for private companies. ladies and gentlemen, the european refining sector entered the market economy as a result of the 2005 reform, after a transition period that ended in 2009. this orientation towards more markets was desirable, and we cannot therefore go back. the commission's task is to ensure the balance of the european sugar market. sugar imports have increased very sharply since 2006. they reached a record level of 4 million tonnes in 2011. imports from acp countries also followed this trend. if the acp countries decide to export refined sugar to the european union, we must not only accept this but also recognize that it contributes to the development of their economies. the difficulties reported by a small number of refining companies are not related to a lack of sugar. they are linked to increased competition between european refiners, with a sharp increase in the production capacity of refiners. this explains why some factories are not running at full capacity. the main objective of the sugar reform was to increase the competitiveness and market orientation of the sugar industry in the european union on a sustainable basis. the european union has become a net importer of sugar, whereas it was previously a significant net exporter. the reform was therefore a success, since it eliminated the structural surplus sugar production. the current sugar market regime shall be valid until 30 september 2015. in october 2011, the commission presented its proposal for the future functioning of the sugar regime in the european union, which provides for the abolition of production quotas. this is currently being discussed with the parliament and the other european institutions. i would like to invite you, on behalf of my colleague mr cioloș, to take an active part in this debate on the cap post-2013 and the future of the quota system.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the security of supply of sugar to the european market must be the primary objective of european sugar policy. however, the 2006 reform of the sugar market regulation has made the european union partly dependent on imports. the commissioner has just given the figures. as a consequence of the reform, imports of 15% of consumption have become permanently necessary. but when imports fell short of expectations due to poor harvests in some of the major sugar producing countries and the resulting rise in world market prices, i think the european commission took the right action. it has allowed additional imports under preferential arrangements - over 500 000 tonnes have been imported duty-free - and has enabled domestic sugar and isoglucose producers to sell part of their out-of-quota production on the food market. this is also 500 000 tonnes. in this context, it is noted that the commission has ensured the balance mentioned in the requests. the commission's proposal is not a new one. the sugar market organisation has the necessary instruments to ensure supply and to ensure a fair balance of interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the sugar market reform has led to the loss of thousands of jobs. in my constituency in the upper palatinate, one of the oldest sugar factories in europe has been closed down, with hundreds of jobs. the aim cannot therefore be to secure every job, although i regret every job cut, but to ensure a balance. i think it is good that the sugar market reform is extended until 2020. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. thank you very much, madam president. we used to have sugar prices that were way over the top in europe. the sugar market reform in 2006 and before that, has reduced sugar beet prices in europe by around 40%, meaning that sugar beet growers have had to make massive cuts. we have large price fluctuations on the world market. we had a time when sugar was much more expensive on the world market than in germany. no one from the acp states has delivered to europe. that was the problem, that there were inconsistencies. madam president, if we abolish the sugar market in europe, we will be exposed to even more of these price fluctuations and consumers will have to pay a heavy price.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. we have made a very good start with the recent reform of the sugar market. the industry has adapted to the market. but the complaints from all sides show that we have to go further, that we have to develop the sugar market further. the commission's forecasts were not correct. the acp states did not supply sugar to europe, but they did supply it elsewhere, because markets all over the world have changed. they've changed massively in the last few years, unlike what was predicted. the demand for these products has increased in many non-member countries, which was not foreseen. this means that the demand for sugar has increased worldwide and the european market has had to bear the consequences of the decline in supplies. the problem is that we don't just have sugar as a single product in agriculture, but farmers are also increasingly adapting to the market. they're also considering alternative productions. for example, in my country, germany, energy production is now also carried out on the land. it's a real competitor to sugar beet. we should really discuss the common market reform and see if it is not time to abolish quota regulation on the sugar market and give the future a freer ride.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course, it would be best if we no longer needed a market organization for sugar beet. you know that any quota system will have its disadvantages. i would also like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of taxation of capital. we shall therefore vote in favour of extending the sugar beet quota system in the committee. it's the right decision. but that brings us to the next insight, in my view. if we accept that we have three pillars of sugar production - sugar production from sugar beet, then isoglucose and finally imported sugar - then we will of course be able to deal with imported sugar in the committee together with the commission. this could be the way out for all of us, so that a certain stability can be established in this sector. but once again, it would be best if we did not need the quota system at all, but we will have to extend it in the interests of our farmers.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the president of the commission on the situation in the union (2012/2586 ((rsp)). before we get into the discussions, it is certainly appropriate to point out that today can and will be a decisive day for europe. it is no exaggeration to say that the eyes of the world public are on the european union today. i am sure that she is looking to germany this morning, where a german constitutional body is about to make a major decision for us all. it is certainly looking to the elections in the netherlands, where our fellow citizens are electing their new parliament this morning with - i think you share my view - far-reaching implications for the european union as a whole. and the eyes of the world public are on this parliament this morning, where the president of the european commission will deliver his state of the union address. before he does, a remark as president of this house: the developments of the last few months have been worrying, above all with regard to the tendency towards the de-parliamentarisation of europe. i would like to make it clear at this point, before mr barroso speaks: i am sure that those who say that parliamentarism is too slow, that parliaments are an obstacle to the building of new structures, and those who believe that european institutions with european powers can be developed without involving the european parliament, will find strong resistance from this parliament. (applause from the centre) that is why we will hear in mr barroso's speech this morning proposals for the creation of a new instrument in europe, the banking union. one thing is absolutely clear: whatever new structures are being built in europe, the euro is the currency of the union. parliament is the parliament of the union. in this logic, the parliament of the euro is the european parliament. (applause from the centre) anyone who thinks otherwise will encounter the powerful resistance of the european parliament. i say powerful resistance because the european parliament is a powerful institution. (applause from the centre)
before i open the debate, because we are inundated with requests for the 'catch-the-eye' procedure, perhaps a reference to this procedure. the catch-the-eye procedure is called that because it's supposed to be spontaneous. it's not a list of replacement speakers. we will try to include those who have signed up, but only if they are in the chamber. i want to make that very clear.
it may be of particular importance to your speech that the federal constitutional court has rejected the lawsuits. the european stability mechanism is allowed. (applause from the centre)
that was not a point of order. but since the aristocracy has been so beaten, we must be generous.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it is time we returned to the main debate. i would like to say to you, mr barroso: you have explained your vision of the european union's path towards banking union, towards political union and have set out the model of a democratic federation of nation states. i'm sure there's a lot to be said about that. but i think the crucial point that will underlie all discussions, over and over again, when it comes to developing and shaping a future for the european union together is the question: how are people involved, how are they involved and what is the ultimate interest in such a future model? if we can answer that, it will probably also make it easier for us to discuss the kind of europe we need in the future. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i would like to say that in my view at least three premises are not fulfilled here in the way that would be necessary to avoid the road to a dead end. and it also applies to what you have said here today, at least in the first two. in your answer, you and other representatives of the european institutions and governments are driven by fear of the threat of loss of economic and political influence in the world, of the diminishing share of the population and the diminishing share of resources - in short, of economic power and strength. secondly, they want to tackle the eu crisis, but not the causes that led to it. the interests of the people who urgently need a functioning, solidarity-based, social and ecological union are not in focus. we need to have this discussion now, not paint a picture that may one day be valid and no longer applies to their life interests, to their present plight. they're relying on more regulatory institutions because the capitalists need them. the aim is to reduce functional deficits in the eu economy, particularly in the euro area. third point: i'm going to take you out of the picture. so they - the institutions and especially the governments - are betting that this will happen with a serious de-democratization. i am very grateful to you for one question, namely that you make it clear that the european parliament is needed because without the european parliament and the members elected there, a debate on the re-design of europe is not possible. many of the commission's proposals, including banking union and eurobonds, would be welcome if they were not primarily aimed at making profits in global competition. to be clear: more regulation of markets and banks, elimination of functional deficits in the economic and monetary union, up to the banking union and eurobonds: yes. but no to these aims, no to the way in which they are achieved, no to the conditions which they impose, no to the dismantling of democracy! we are concerned about the people of the european union, especially in the crisis countries, but above all about young people, the elderly, the unemployed and women. given that most of the proposals for the rescue from the crisis and for the development of the future european union are made by men - and that is precisely where a merkel is not doing equality by far - and women are most affected by the crisis, it is incomprehensible to me that we want to give up a fundamental value in the self-concept of our european parliament and the eu and quietly withdraw a call for equality for women right now and let us take it away. i can't accept that. that is not acceptable to my group either. the so-called reforms adopted in the memorandum in the framework of the esf, the esm, the euro plus pact, the fiscal pact, etc., attack the fundamental social rights of the people. i say to you, mr barroso, you cannot explain here how important you are to the people and their social situation in the european union, when at the same time the commission, as part of the troika in greece, is also largely responsible for the conditions imposed which have a direct impact on the social situation of the most vulnerable! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you can't do that! it is your task to protect these very values of the european union in these times of crisis. you are the guardian of the values and standards of the european union. an example of what we are currently experiencing is, in my group's view, the fiscal compact, whose conformity with eu law we continue to question. this we have now had the treaty audited moves outside the eu legal framework, but in its implementation it uses eu institutions, but excludes the european parliament. my group will be considering in the coming days what forms we can take to oppose this politically and what we can do about it. the way forward - and this has been discussed earlier - is to follow the european union's path. the german model is not suitable for the future european union. we cannot accept that in this form. i would ask you once again to express, as you have been asked to do, your idea of how the way out of this crisis should be, where the european union should go. you should look at the social progress clause. sign the social pact. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is the reason why many people have lost faith in the european union. we have to win it back. we can only do this if we finally face up to these challenges, a social, a solidarity-based, an ecological and a democratic europe, a democratic union which also fulfils its solidarity-based role as a global actor. i am very different from what we have just heard from the right.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr barroso, i do not agree with the idea that the only way to solve the current problem and to win the confidence of europe is to set up new structures, new institutions and a new idea every day. we also gain trust by proving that what we have done has an impact, that people can feel comfortable in this europe, that there is a chance for jobs and a secure future. so i suggest that we look a little more closely at whether what we are doing is effective. when we review the implementation of directives, let us ensure that structural reforms are implemented on the ground! mr swoboda has just spoken so negatively about germany and has spoken critically about structural reforms. perhaps a little hint: in germany, the most effective structural reform was certainly that which was done under an spd government, which led to this economic growth today. what are we doing to promote competitiveness? commissioner tajani made a very clever suggestion not too long ago that we should make all the legislation we make here subject to the effects on competitiveness. so please don't just come up with new ideas, but take concrete action and do something!
mr daul, i must now say to you what i have said before, since i have the pleasure of being part of this body at least temporarily: mr barroso is at least as combative in the european council as he is here. i want to confirm that explicitly. he's not just doing this here. he fights there, too. since i've been assisting him, he's become even bolder!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not mr barroso, i made it clear in the first round what i wanted to focus on. i am referring to the expectation of my group that the commission will fulfil its responsibilities in the relevant bodies such as the troika, in order to make it clear that we, as the commission, as a european institution, are in favour of not pushing people further into poverty, not extending working hours, not lowering environmental and social standards. that's their job. if we succeed in making this clear, we will also send a signal to the people who have taken to the streets in these days in the thousands and hundreds of thousands, and to whom we, as a group, also express our solidarity, whether in thessaloniki or in barcelona. i heard the news this morning that in greece the cancer patients are protesting. where have we gotten to where people who are in deep social and personal need can't get any help and support because the health system has collapsed? we're gonna have to get some action here. one approach in the minds of many officials is that people in greece and other countries have lived beyond their means. they must be punished today and endure sanctions. this approach is not suited to strengthening a european community, a community of solidarity. i am not suggesting that you should do so, mr barroso, but this is an approach which is being used in many countries and unfortunately is also repeated in the media in my country.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not a question to mr farage: is there a contested vote in the house of commons on the choice of the prime minister of the united kingdom, or is the candidate only the one who kissed the queen's ring?
i think we need to settle something once and for all about this house. the european executive acquires its democratic legitimacy by voting in this house. there is no national government in which ministers are subjected to such a strong scrutiny as the individual commissioners in these hearings. (applause from the centre) and there is no more transparent appointment than that of the commission here in parliament. we know that the council's is not transparent. but the council is precisely the body which you, mr farage, are constantly trying to strengthen. well, this house is a democratic institution. if you think they're so undemocratic, why are they sitting here? (applause from the centre)
you are wrong, mr farage, i did not interfere in the debate but i rejected your continued doubts about the democratic legitimacy of this house. it's my duty as president! (applause from the centre)
the debate is closed.
let me make a brief statement, which several colleagues have already pointed out to me during the sitting. the united states embassy in benghazi has been the target of a major attack which has killed the american ambassador and several embassy staff. i would like to express my strong condemnation of this obviously terrorist act and express our sympathy to the authorities of the united states. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to express our solidarity once again as chairman of the european parliament's delegation for relations with the united states, and above all in the presence of the united states ambassador to the european union and a high-level representative of the us administration. the attack on any democratic representation, and above all on representation with diplomatic legitimacy, must be strongly condemned. our solidarity goes out to the victims, but we also call on the libyan government to ensure the safety of diplomatic missions! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have some oral amendments because the fact that the debate was postponed meant that the groups needed time to reach agreement. so we're asking you to allow us to have this a few times. we would have liked to have added the wording: 'takes into account the important historical relationship between european and iranian peoples'.
we would like to add that turkey should be encouraged to pursue its foreign policy in a framework of good neighbourly relations.
this is the proposed oral amendment: ‘calls for all sides to work for a peaceful resolution and urges iran to respect the non-proliferation treaty and the united nations resolution and to cooperate fully with the iaea’.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we've found a compromise for the last sentence. it reads: 'considers that the opening of an eu delegation in tehran could take place at an appropriate moment in the development of eu-iranian relations'.
we have found a compromise in the following conflicts. it is now: 'in particular breaking the deadlock on south ossetia and abkhazia, and on the nagorno-karabakh conflict'.
mr president, at the request of one group we would like to add the word canada.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the first sentence shall read:notes that the joint africa-eu strategy and its eight sectors have initially focused .... in the middle we would add:the coherence and differences on this strategy have been reduced by the existence of overlapping agreements with multiple partners and the lack of a specific budget for its implementation; in addition ...
i promise, it's the last time. is of the opinion that nato's decision to develop a civilian crisis management capacity should not duplicate eu capabilities.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course, at first glance it seems very logical and reasonable that you can only take and fish from the world's oceans what has grown annually. but we know that man is not always reasonable, especially when he can delegate responsibility. and that is why it is extremely important that we first agree on catch quotas, on the protection of our fish stocks in the world's oceans. for this to work, we must also deal with those countries which, for whatever reason, do not want to comply with these demands and limitations. i am therefore extremely grateful to the rapporteur for this report and have naturally agreed to it. it is now up to the commission to define appropriate measures so that we can negotiate with these countries and also signal to these countries that sustainable fishing is extremely important, and it is not just about us, it is not just about fish, it is also about the next generations in our world.
in writing. - i have approved the report. for the first time, an attempt is being made to regulate the common principles for the protection of victims. this is a very important issue, as victim protection needs to be improved significantly in almost all countries. the commission is now called upon to act swiftly and to identify ways of putting this into practice.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, let me first thank you for your kind comments on the success of the meeting in paphos. we are looking forward to continuing until the end of the cyprus presidency, providing both hospitality for meetings but also substantial meetings that will contribute to moving forward our common european agenda. please allow me to begin this debate by stating that the presidency is well aware of the concerns that have been expressed by many members of this parliament at recent political developments in romania over the last few weeks and months. given the implications of some of the actions and decisions taken at the highest political level in romania, it is very understandable that this parliament has not only followed developments closely, but has also wished to express its profound unease. unlike parliament, the council has not discussed this issue. you will appreciate that, since as a presidency i speak on behalf of the council as a whole, it follows that my contribution to this afternoon’s debate will necessarily be limited. i would, however, like to make some more general comments and offer some reflections which are relevant to the wider context. i hope these will also clarify the situation from the point of view of the council. firstly and importantly, i would like to stress one point which is well known to all of us – that the european union is founded on a number of basic values and principles which are set out in the treaties. these values and principles, which include freedom, democracy and the rule of law, are also enshrined in the constitutional traditions of all member states. the council attaches particular importance to ensuring that these values and principles are fully respected. i know that this house also fully shares that view. however, there has been no suggestion – either within or outside the council – that any procedure involving the council linked to the respect for the values on which the european union is founded, should be invoked in the light of recent events in romania. all member states are required to ensure that their legislation respects the basic values on which the eu is founded. but the rule of law and democratic values have not only to be enshrined in the texts, but also put into practice. that means that the legislation has to be respected and enforced. if there are any concerns or doubts that this is not the case, this is firstly a matter for the commission. i know that the commission has raised its concerns in various contacts with different parties within romania. the undertaking given to the commission by the romanian government to act swiftly to ensure respect for the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary will certainly be welcomed. on a separate note, and though legally not linked with schengen accession, i am sure that the commissioner will wish to say more about the concerns which the commission raised with the romanians and which are set out in the commission’s latest report under the cooperation and verification mechanism which it adopted on 18 july. the council is expected next week to take a view on this report as a whole and recall that the existence of an impartial, independent and effective administrative and judicial system is indispensable for eu policies to function properly and for citizens to benefit from all the opportunities offered by membership of the union. i hope you will understand that i am not able at this stage to make a more detailed contribution to this debate, given that the council has not adopted a position on this issue. i can, however, assure members that i will listen with particular interest and attention to your comments and reactions to this issue. let me finish by greeting the presence of vice-president reding and the ministers.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, at the beginning of this summer we witnessed a combination of actions by the romanian authorities, which called into question the rule of law, democratic checks and balances and the independence of the judiciary. we have built our europe on judicial independence and on the respect for the rule of law. those are fundamental values for our union and the commission, as guardian of the treaty, has a duty to see that they are respected by all. let me be clear about the nature of the concerns the commission expressed during the summer. they concerned respect for constitutional norms and judicial independence. they concerned the rule of law, because in romania laws and emergency decrees were passed against constitutional practice with the aim of reducing democratic checks and balances, notably by imposing sudden limits to the powers of the constitutional court. at the same time, judges and prosecutors were subject to intimidation and pressure by political forces. let me be very clear on the following: pressure on the judiciary is unacceptable regardless of which side of the political spectrum it comes from. that is why the commission reacted swiftly and decisively. on 6 july, in a press release, the commission expressed concerns about the developments in romania. on 11 july i met the romanian justice minister in brussels and president barroso met prime minister ponta the day after to share the commission’s concerns about the developments in romania. as a result of our exchanges, the romanian government made a number of important commitments in response to the eleven specific points that we had raised. the romanian authorities addressed some of our concerns and, in particular, restored the constitutional norms, notably in the run-up to the referendum to impeach president băsescu on 29 july. the referendum, unfortunately, did not bring an end to the political strife. following the referendum there was again evidence of pressure on judges and of prosecutors’ attempts to influence the circulation of the referendum turnout. president barroso again set out the commission’s concern in a letter to prime minister ponta on 10 august. in this letter the commission called upon the romanian government to cooperate fully with the constitutional court and to act swiftly and decisively on allegations of intimidation against judges. let me also recall that the venice commission echoed the commission’s concern. the president of this venice commission stated on 7 august and i quote: ‘it is a general principle of the rule of law that pressure on any court, whether constitutional or ordinary, in order to influence its decisions, is inadmissible’ and he also appealed to ‘all state authorities and political parties of romania to fully respect the independence of the constitutional court and to refrain from exercising pressures’. on 21 august the decision of the constitutional court to declare invalid the referendum for the impeachment of president băsescu was respected by all mainstream political forces. this is an important step because it provides an opportunity for the normalisation of political life. in this context the commission urges all political forces to seize this opportunity. the romanian people deserve a political discourse based on policy arguments, not on personal attacks. i hope that the coming weeks and months will show that all political actors in romania are determined to fully respect the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary in a sustainable and irreversible way. however, the situation in romania remains fragile and requires our attention and support. since romania’s accession to the eu in 2007, the commission has a particular responsibility – as the minister has just said – to monitor progress on the rule of law and the judicial independence in romania under the cooperation and verification mechanism. the political developments in romania over the summer were of particular relevance to this monitoring exercise. the commission therefore set out in detail its concerns in its report on romania, which was adopted by the commission on 18 july. not all concerns and recommendations by the commission regarding the rule of law and judicial independence have been addressed. the commission will therefore continue to closely monitor the situation in romania and maintain close contact with the romanian authorities. in the coming days president barroso and i will be seeing president băsescu. president barroso will receive prime minister ponta and i will receive the new romanian minister of justice. before the end of the year the commission will prepare a report on romania within the cooperation and verification mechanism, as announced in july. in this report we will critically assess whether the rule of law and the stability of institutions have been restored in romania and whether confidence lost over the summer has been regained by the necessary cooperation among all political actors. i am confident that this parliament shares the commission’s conviction that the rule of law and judicial independence are at the heart of the european union and must be respected with impartiality in all 27 eu member states. that is why the commission calls on all political forces in this house and outside this house to act with responsibility and restraint in order to contribute to a stabilisation of the political situation in romania. all political actors will have to contribute to this.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in july, an independent ombudsman, a longtime anti-corruption campaigner, is replaced by a good party follower. two emergency laws are passed that drastically limit the powers of the constitutional court and change the legal situation for a referendum on the impeachment of the president during the ongoing process. a more than questionable impeachment procedure is being carried out against the president of the republic, who is removed from the supervision of the constitutional court by the emergency legislation. the quorum requirements of the constitutional court are being ignored. finally, there are reports that the electoral rolls in the presidential impeachment referendum are irregular and that even after the election the electoral rolls have been changed. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new legislation. if i read this list, i'm not talking about a banana republic somewhere in the world. no, i am talking about the reports we received this summer from romania, a country in the european union. and these reports, these discussions that we have to have about it, are disappointing and simply unbearable. i am therefore glad and grateful that the president of the commission and especially our vice-president, viviane reding, have responded with commitment and determination and have asked for clarification in romania. it is intolerable, however, that prime minister ponta promises the president of the commission that he will withdraw the illegal and profoundly undemocratic emergency legislation and does nothing at home in romania. on the contrary, ponta has used the occasion to make a statement against the european union. this is unworthy of an elected prime minister and shows his undemocratic mentality. i would like to thank the commission once again for its firm stance. the citizens of europe and romania appreciate it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i would like to answer now because mr paşcu knows that it is not for him, nor for me, nor for any prime minister ponta, to judge whether a court is biased or not. a constitutional court is independent and as such has to make independent decisions, and these must be accepted by both of us. you are in the social democratic group. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the baltic states, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take action to ensure that the situation in the baltic states is not exacerbated by the crisis. that is the reality and that is why i would ask the social democrats to go to bucharest and say: make sure that the rule of law is implemented!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i'm appalled by the tone of this discussion. i do not know whether we are doing european values and european democracy a favour by continuing to be the extension of the romanian election campaign which has already begun in this debate. i would like to take up a phrase from mr watson. you said that we are not debating hungary or romania, we are dealing with countries that have not really made the transition from communist regimes to european democracy. i agree with that. but i believe that mr ponta is also one of the players who has not managed to take this step. the parallel i see between hungary and romania is simply that a political majority, when it feels secure in power, does not shy away from restructuring the state, restructuring the institutions of the state in such a way that independence from the majority power in the government in parliament is lost. i see a parallel here, not the same situation, but a parallel to what we discussed about hungary. the fact that we have this instrument, the cooperation and control procedure, which has now enabled us to look more closely with the commission's help, shows that we have known for a long time - and this is also true of president bǎsescu - that in romania, as in bulgaria, where we have the same instruments, something is wrong with the rule of law or with the fight against corruption as a whole. that's why i insist. it is good that the commission has now looked more closely at romania. i would very much like to see such possibilities for the eu as a whole, so that we do not always find ourselves in this situation where we are incompetent, unauthorized or biased when we look at a particular party, which belongs to a large party family in this house, either on the left or the right. ladies and gentlemen, i find it shameful, time and again, that the big party families are really the party followers of non-democrats in the european union. if this does not stop, i see the development of the rule of law in a black hole, which mrs reding has advocated in this case - but also in hungary with the opportunities we had there. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure. )
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. first of all, i didn't hear a question. secondly, i have never claimed that everything was fine in romania before the ponta government came to power, but i share the concerns of many citizens in romania that the rule of law in romania is not yet secure at all. we must therefore all together - whatever the political situation - keep an eye on it from brussels, just as we have done in the conflicts with italy, hungary and, in some cases, france.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european union has a long history of being a major player in the world economy. but there are rules. and if there is a suspicion that this is contrary to existing laws, to the values of the european union, then of course it must be investigated, in hungary and romania, as well as in france, denmark and all the other countries where there is or could be cause for concern. but i am not just wondering, in the light of today's debate, whether all those involved are really concerned with a factual clarification of events, or whether it is not a matter of partisan political skirmishes or the political profiling of individuals by means of strong language. this is not going to help us to regain the confidence of the citizens. we must have objective information, and we must have the same standard for all the member states and not different standards depending on whether we are in the north, east, south or west of the european union. if we tackle these issues and do not rely on rumours and newspaper reports, this debate will have added value for hungarians, romanians, french, germans and everyone else.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have a very important responsibility here, including as co-rapporteurs. it will be very important for the honourable member to work on this dossier in a rapid and reliable manner over the coming weeks and months. the eyes are now on us and on the council to take this step, to overcome the banking crisis in europe by another step of europeanisation, namely a european banking union. it must be said that parliament has already called for this by a large majority two years ago. we did 26 trilogues. we have taken a step in that direction, but unfortunately not as far as we should have. billions more bills have been generated. it is good that the council has now drawn the consequences and wants to deepen this step for the eurozone. it is commendable that the commission has worked out the proposals so quickly. the council's proposal that the ecb should become the euro area supervisor, however, presents some difficulties. this leads to unanimity in the council and to the fact that parliament is not involved in the codecision procedure on this dossier. in the light of our experience with the supervisory package, this is not acceptable. it is therefore important that we work quickly, but also that we negotiate this proposal for changes in the ecb as a package with the necessary changes to the existing supervisory regime, thus effectively ensuring the principle of democratic participation of parliament. there are other democratic challenges. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of monetary policy, and that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of fiscal policy, and that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of budgetary policy. the complex issues of the internal market, consumer protection and the balance between european power and financial responsibility will also be the subject of a thorough discussion in the coming weeks.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank you, commissioner, for your cooperation in one of the most important areas of your banking union, deposit insurance. you have rightly pointed out that the four pillars are of equal importance to supervision. deposit insurance and emergency funds are two of these four pillars. the commission president, mr barroso, said this morning that it was impossible for the citizens to continue to pay for the misconduct of the banks. now, you know, you have great supporters here in this house for the best-funded deposit guarantee systems, crisis management systems. but you know as well as i do that our common enemy is in the council. you know as well as i do that the deposit guarantee that we passed here by a large, bipartisan majority seven months ago, with a level of funds that are worth the name that would create stable funds, has been approved by the house and put into place. and for seven months now, nothing has been done by the governments of the member states to help us, nothing to ensure the stability of the systems in the future. i would like to ask you how you think we can get the cow off the ice here. one thing is clear. the european parliament will not allow the creation of a system of safeguards which is chronically underfunded and not worthy of the name it bears. how can we work together to get the council to act on what it says, namely that in future the public will no longer be called upon to finance banks in liquidation or to pay out deposits, but that the banks will do so themselves by investing in the appropriate funds?
the commission has already done so. the european parliament concluded two years ago that the european single market for financial services also needs european supervision and proposed that this supervision be established at the ecb rather than at the ecb, so as not to jeopardise the independence of the bank. the commission is now proposing to establish such supervision at the ecb, and to target it first of all at the financial institutions of the eurozone. the european single market for financial services is more than the eurozone. i therefore believe that it is crucial to bring the financial institutions of the euro area and the european union as a whole under this supervision as soon as possible. firstly, at least all the countries which have committed themselves to adopting the euro, that is, all except denmark and the united kingdom, should be placed under this supervision. it is important that this new supervision does not become a bureaucratic monster. it is therefore crucial that it clarifies the role of the national supervisory authorities very quickly. the division of tasks between the ecb and eba also needs to be clarified. the question of democratic legitimacy has been raised on more than one occasion. the key is that the accountability of this supervision is effectively guaranteed without jeopardising the independence of the bank. and another: implement the project in such a way that the citizens have no reason to be even more eurosceptic. be careful when using national rescue, resolution and deposit guarantee funds. the citizens consider it their money and want it to be used in their countries.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and for the work he has done in this area. i think that's what's needed. but i still have a few questions. the european landscape, the eu, is characterized by a great diversity of banks: savings banks, cooperative banks, private banks, large banks. i believe that this diversity must be preserved and safeguarded, including through european supervision. i think this is very important, because many of the smaller banks were stable during the crisis and cannot be allowed to go bankrupt. secondly, i do not think that supervision alone is enough. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. thirdly and lastly, as good as banking supervision is, it can do little in the current legal situation with regard to the shadow banking sector. this means that it is important to bear in mind that this type of banking supervision will only solve part of the problems. the problem of shadow banks therefore remains an open problem.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european banking supervision based on uniform rules with rights of access was a matter for parliament two years ago. it failed the member states at the time and the commission accepted that. if that changes now, i'm all for it. but there are significant concerns that relate to the role of the ecb, to the legal basis, but they also relate to the fact that all 6000 banks in the eurozone are now to be controlled by a european superbureaucracy in the form of the ecb. the proposal is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, it removes the powers of the national supervisory authorities, it removes the powers of the eba. new rules have been introduced which give preference to non-euro countries in the eba. so this whole system is not going to lead to the uniform rules being enforced. i am sure that the council will not accept this proposal in this way. the european parliament is therefore entitled to insist on a different legal basis and thus to make the eba the focal point rather than the european central bank. the same rules apply to all sites and to all authorities and banks. the commission has also proposed a more risk-based approach to supervision. mr draghi said last week that he was thinking of a matrix in the distribution of responsibilities for balance sheet, cross-border business and risk weighting. i don't see that in the proposal. the commissioner once again referred to regional banks as small banks, such as bankia with a balance sheet total of eur 310 billion, dexia with a balance sheet total of eur 560 billion and northern rock with a balance sheet total of eur 150 billion. this has been dealt with in national responsibility, under eu competition law, and not with excessive banking supervision. but that is not my main point, i am also in favour of the fund, of the restructuring, of the 150 billion euro fund which mr van rompuy is going to propose. i am against a uniform deposit guarantee throughout europe. the second stage is the second stage, which means that after the taxpayers, the savers have to pay for the banking crisis. we shall be making a major protest against this, at least on the part of some members of parliament. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. it's not about small or big, but we have definitions. the rules, which were also defined by the basel committee, state that a large supervised financial undertaking is considered to be large if it has a balance sheet total of more than eur 70 billion. it's a scale. why should smaller banks not be supervised by the national authorities under the same rules of subsidiarity? why not? - why not? the guarantees, the taxpayers, they're behind it. if we now add to the deposits while the banks are laughing their heads off, then that is socially unfair and, in my opinion, irresponsible!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the epc negotiations must always bear in mind that we enter into negotiations on different terms. we have the european union with a strong commissioner, with many officials, who are negotiating with young states with little capacity. it is therefore more than just and reasonable to give these countries more time and more opportunities for negotiation. we must not give the impression that we are putting pressure on these countries by abruptly ending their access to the market. i also believe that we should not force anyone to sign anything, but that we should negotiate with these countries in a partnership with a view to finding mutually acceptable solutions. sometimes it takes more time. that is why the socialist group clearly supports david martin's proposal to give two years for this, but also to limit it clearly to two years, in order to explore ways of finding common ground. mr fjellner, i ask you to support this compromise because we have indeed found a large majority here in the committee in favour of finally giving clear signals for termination, but at the same time offering opportunities for negotiation.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the commission's proposal to exclude developing countries from preferential market access is an attempt to force these countries into free trade agreements. these free trade agreements are not partnerships as the term economic partnerships suggests, but are only about the interests of the eu and not about the development interests of the partner countries. this is completely contrary to the eu's objective of reducing poverty and of focusing all external policy instruments on this. countries such as cameroon, côte d'ivoire and namibia would be massively affected by this restriction. regional integration projects such as those in south east africa would be shattered if kenya were to enter into such an agreement. south-south cooperation would be over. we cannot promote free trade in the world and then expect other countries to buy our goods. if the commission really believes that trade can promote development, it should not block it. the committee on development of this house has recommended that the commission's proposal be rejected. we should join them in the plenary.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are debating today a proposal from you, commissioner, which can and will cause great damage to the reputation of the european union. while our partners are still at the negotiating table with the commission, you want to put a gun to their chest and force them to agree by threatening to exclude them from the european market. the european union's credibility as a negotiating partner would be completely undermined by their actions. ambassador of all the countries concerned have spoken to me and have given me a very clear picture of what is at stake for them and their people. the committee on development, which is equipped with admirably good sensors for the african partner countries, has recognised this and has therefore rejected the commission's proposal in the opinion of my colleague, the chairman of the group of the party of european socialists, mrs zimmer. my group strongly supports this position, especially on trade. i appeal to all members of this house, including those on the committee on trade, to adopt this development policy perspective and not to jeopardize decades of close cooperation by the shortsighted single-mindedness of the trade commissioner. the vote will be taken by roll call. mr de gucht, your regulation would have explosive effects for the east african community. you would isolate kenya from the other member states or you risk this community of countries saying goodbye to europe as the main partner. there are some trading nations in the world that would welcome this opportunity. your accusation against the africans is unjust. you want to punish the delay you caused. why, for example, does the commission insist on abolishing export taxes? namibia only levies such taxes on pure commodity exports. if the first processing is carried out in namibia itself, no tax is payable. i call this a wise and legitimate economic policy and industrial policy direction, fully in line with the objectives of the eu's development policy. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. i ask you to withdraw this proposal.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking you, mr rapporteur, for your work and, above all, for the patience you have shown in the negotiations. i would also like to thank you, commissioner, for your proposal. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the one i'm criticizing is not here, it's the council. ladies and gentlemen, i have been involved in some 50 conciliation procedures and trilogues in which i have negotiated with the council. but what i have seen in these negotiations is something i have not seen in all the time before, namely that the council has made demands of parliament in a sort of blackmailing manner and said: 'eat or die'. i have never seen the council's negotiator get up and walk out during a trilogue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this morning we discussed again that we need more europe and an agreement on our core policy, especially in a crisis situation. commissioner öttinger, you are going straight to the headquarters. energy policy is central to the european union, to economic growth, to a future-oriented energy policy. it is perfectly logical, ladies and gentlemen, that we can only develop a sensible energy policy if we also agree on a common external energy policy, on agreements with third countries. in this respect, despite all the understanding and sympathy that people have for saying, 'okay, it is better to accept the lowest level than to have nothing at all', we want to make sure that there is more binding legislation in this proposal. we want the commission to be kept fully informed and to be involved in the negotiations. that's the minimum we need to make sure: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we shall put these motions to the vote tomorrow and hope to have your support so that we can also put the council a little further in the box. i hope, commissioner, that you will take seriously what you said at the end, that you will review the council's behaviour in the future so that we can put a sensible review on track.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in many policy areas, we are already speaking with a common european voice at international level. unfortunately, this does not apply to energy policy. it is regrettable that the commission's proposal and parliament's ambitious position have met with such a negative response from the member states. the council may be right in its formal position, but there is no such thing as an executive power of the european union. but everyone must be aware that we must all pull together in the energy sector, sooner or later, if we are to meet the challenges of security of supply and affordable energy on a sustainable basis. even the large member states will eventually, with the advance of globalisation and emerging players in the energy markets, come to the painful realization that we can only hold our own in the long term if we are united. this is all the more true for the smaller member states. our position in parliament was very ambitious, as we were aware from the beginning. we had to expect resistance. the fact that the council did not see any room for negotiation at all is a cause for reflection. but after weighing all the options, we can agree to the outcome of the negotiations. finally, we have the chance to at least agree on a legal framework, a basis on which we can build in a few years. i think that is better than a failed piece of legislation which would have forced us to start from scratch the next time. we shall therefore vote against the amendments tabled by the s&d group. i would like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteur for his great commitment and for his efforts to support the commission in this matter.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am grateful for the broad consensus here in parliament across all the groups. we share the same objective of joining forces, strengthening the internal market and improving our position in the purchase and supply of primary energy through transparency, competition and consultation. i also share the criticism of the council's lack of constructive cooperation. the european council's invitation to the commission to submit proposals on how to improve the common external energy policy is out of proportion to the daily work of evaluating and refusing to implement what has been duly drawn up and proposed by the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if we didn't have it, we'd have to start over. there have been several attempts to do so. we now have at least some of the building blocks developed in the draft legislation of parliament and the council. we're going to use them now. we will then tell you how they prove themselves in practice. i am sure that in two or three years' time the commission will come forward with proposals on how this common external energy strategy can be further developed and improved in a second step. they addressed the question of how energy foreign policy in particular should be linked to foreign policy in general. i have a very good working relationship with my colleague lady ashton. we're working closely together. as a rule, energy policy takes precedence when it comes to relations with third countries. there may be exceptions to this. let me give you an example. the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region to develop their energy policies. we're one less source of supply. in particular, member states such as greece, italy and spain have had a problem with this because up to 30% of their oil needs come from iran. but it is clear that if we are to have a coherent and consistent policy towards iran, the boycott of oil must be seen not only from the perspective of energy policy but also from the perspective of the whole. this is how we vote. and in that case energy policy is subordinate to foreign and security policy. but again, as a rule, the directorate-general for energy has operational responsibility and we have special interests in energy foreign policy which are not subordinated to general foreign policy. the question of nabucco was raised, that is to say, how we are going to develop new sources. i am sure that in 2018 for the first time significant amounts of oil from azerbaijan will come to the european market, and thus another source will be available for the gas markets of europe, alongside russia, alongside norway, alongside algeria and alongside its own deposits united kingdom, netherlands and alongside lng gas. we are confident that in three quarters of a year the decisions on the nabucco, nabucco west, tanap and tap pipelines will be taken. the question is whether it will be gas from azerbaijan alone, or whether quantities of gas from turkmenistan or iraq will follow, so that the southern corridor really becomes a gas corridor of equal value, as relations with russia, norway and algeria have been for years and decades. thank you again for your successful participation!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 september 2012. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs iratxe garcía pérez, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on quality schemes for agricultural products (com (2010) 0733, c7-0423/2010 - 2010/0353 (cod)) (a7-0266/2011).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have now completed three years of negotiations and discussions, some of which have been stalled and some of which have been a little tough. we had set ourselves the objective of working towards simplifying quality systems, ensuring quality assurance and also creating a possibility of better prices for farmers. we have not succeeded in regulating marketing standards and supply regulation. we shall now do so in the common organization of the market. but overall we must say that we have taken a first step towards a uniform quality policy. the long period of negotiations also shows how much we have struggled with ourselves to reach an agreement and that it is not always easy to move forward in the first reading. the agreement has now been confirmed by the council. i have no choice but to support the compromise we have before us and to ask you to support the amendments on behalf of alde. we didn't get a lot of things we didn't want. alde was not so enthusiastic about the introduction of a new quality feature such as mountain products, but when you see what has come out as a package, we will be able to support this too. i think our colleagues will be pleased with that.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 september 2012. (the sitting was suspended at 8.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the next item is the joint debate on the report by sophie auconie, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european social entrepreneurship fund (com(2011) 0862 - c7-0489/2011 - 2011/0418 ((cod)) (a7-0194/2012) and the report by philippe lamberts, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european venture capital funds (com (2011) 0860 - c7-0490/2011 - 2011/0417 ((cod)) (a7-0193/2012).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have worked really well together in parliament on this report. we have made improvements to an already good proposal from the commission, which will finally create a financial instrument specifically to support the social economy. it was also not difficult to reach agreement on the removal of some of the bureaucratic obstacles that had been built in: for example, that larger amounts of credit could be granted, as is needed for social housing, or that aid could go to institutions that do not operate in the social economy in the eu, but in developing countries, so that these funds, when finally introduced, could also help the world's most vulnerable. we also made sure that some of the criteria were clarified, like that we really need to prove that the companies that these funds invest in actually have a social benefit, so that these funds don't become a cheap label that you can stick on, but in reality, where social economics is on it, there's nothing social about it. no, these funds are a useful instrument in the context of the commission's broader initiatives for the social economy, which are being promoted by mr barnier in particular, but also by mr tajani. that makes sense! it would be very nice if the good result we have achieved with the commission could finally be applied to the companies. the only obstacle to this is, unfortunately, the council, which is again absent, refusing to include a reasonable definition of tax havens in these funds. it is self-evident that it is precisely such funds which have a social benefit that should not be located in tax havens. this is also true of european venture capital funds. and it is a scandal that the council should allow growth-promoting and social initiatives to fail on such a question as the european definition of tax havens!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 september 2012. (the sitting was suspended for a short time)
the next item is the joint debate on the report by bernd lange, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas of the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru (com2011) 0600 - c7-0307/2011 - 2011/0262 ((cod)) (a7-0249/2012) and the report by jörg leichtfried, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas of the agreement establishing an association between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and central america, of the other part (com2011) 0599 - c7-0266/2011 - 2011/0330 (cod)) (a7-0237/2012).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you for being here tonight and for giving us a chance to talk about this. it is clear that the whole house is not interested in the question tonight. we are still approaching the lisbon treaty with safeguard regulations safety nets because it is still not entirely clear which institution has what role and where what is regulated. so we have to re-introduce in the legislation, which is ordinary legislation, some parts which have already been incorporated into the treaty text and the council decision, but which were not in the right place. that is why it is also a good exercise for us to look more closely at the overall process of establishing this safety net for the agreement with colombia and peru. on the one hand we are making demands on colombia and peru in the agreement, and now we must also see how we can rationally formulate the demands we are making on ourselves. it is also important that the safety net remains viable. there's little point in writing something down that's never going to be used. and that's what it was like in the past. we should therefore use our creative powers to get safety net legislation out of the dust of the filing cabinets and into the realm of practical application. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the first is to look at what the criteria are for casting a safety net. i am firmly convinced that in order to determine when there are market distortions the question of social standards must also be addressed, because of course dumping occurs and competitive advantages can arise from the violation of social standards. in this sense, this is directly part of the application criteria of safety nets, especially in the banana sector. secondly, when we approach lisbon, we are naturally also approaching the role of the european parliament more and more. and it is clear to us that we too - just like the other european institutions - are claiming to be able to launch an investigation. thirdly, if we are serious about greater transparency, this will include involving civil society in a stronger dialogue and institutionalising this in the review of this agreement with colombia and peru. we therefore want to strengthen the dialogue with civil society. we also need more transparency. commissioner, you always refer to the model safeguard regulations with korea. but here, on the question of transparency of monitoring and reporting, you have forgotten article 11 of the korea agreement. the requirements to submit a report on various aspects are something we would like to see safeguarded. the fifth point concerns the protection of banana producers in the european regions.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not there are enormous human rights problems in central america, peru and colombia. we as meps cannot simply turn a blind eye to this. the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of human rights. it must be substantive and binding and include initial results such as the conviction of offenders and the safe return of displaced persons to their lands. and of course it must be before the vote on the agreement. we greens think it is right that the trade committee should call for environmental and social standards in the proposal for a regulation on safeguard clauses and not just tonne limits for bananas. the trilog must then also confirm these, otherwise the regulation is worthless. in general, the eu must do much more to take account of the situation on the ground and, above all, the impact on the local population. the greens therefore call for a proper impact assessment before any negotiation, which not only examines the economic impact on the eu but also the impact on human rights.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we have a lot of work to do over the next three or four months. we want to set up a road map, a road map, as decided by parliament, to strengthen workers' rights, human rights, environmental conditions in colombia and peru, and we want to create a safety net for conditions here in the european union. and neither is an easy task. so, commissioner, i urge you to support this work where you can, on the road map, and in particular, once again, on the government involvement in peru - i feel that the message has not yet been conveyed there about the seriousness of the conditions imposed by parliament - so that we can really have a road map for colombia and peru in the foreseeable future. secondly, commissioner, i would ask you to play an active mediating role with the council in the trialogue on safeguards, so that we can also implement the safeguards regulations in the foreseeable future, so that both the road map and the safeguards regulation are available in time for us to vote on both in november and finally close the lid on the pot, in the interests of the people here in europe, but also in the interests of the people in colombia and peru!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 september 2012.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we can take a decisive step today towards more democracy in europe, because democracy is based on the idea that politics is not done in secret, not in back rooms, but that what is discussed and decided in politics must be transparent, publicly accessible, that citizens and the representatives elected by citizens can follow what is happening, that they can legitimize and control the decisions that are made in politics. the citizens expect this from us as a parliament, and they have asked us to do so in the elections. the new treaty now gives parliament the possibility and thus the duty to monitor and consult on the policies of the european union, including the negotiations of the council, for example in the field of international agreements. but we can only do that if we have the information. unfortunately, that is very often not the case today. you remember many debates here in the house and many debates in public. i am only mentioning the great acta issue as an example, where we had to negotiate far-reaching international treaties without having access to all the documents, without being able to really assess what exactly was agreed and with what intentions. that must change and it will change now that we have reached this agreement, which we, parliament, have negotiated in depth with the council. the question is whether and how and under what conditions we will have access to all such documents in the future. this is not just negotiating documents in the sense of negotiations which have already been concluded. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is about internal papers, confidential papers. it is also a matter of classified or highly classified documents, which is why we have had to agree in this agreement on a step-by-step procedure for dealing with such documents. but we have managed, for example, to make all confidential documents accessible to the members of this house without special security checks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information is not used in a way that would be inappropriate for the purposes of the investigation. i would also like to say something to the colleagues: knowledge is power. it is necessary for this parliament to acquire this knowledge if it is to control the council. but it is also necessary that we handle the knowledge we gain in this way responsibly. not all the knowledge that is thus acquired can or should be used externally. i am sure that the colleagues are aware of this. but it is absolutely necessary, and it is a very important step in the development of european democracy, that parliament has now concluded such an agreement not only with the commission but also with the council and has access to these documents. we want to know what the eu is doing, for example, in the negotiations on the world trade agreement, in climate negotiations, in bilateral trade agreements, etc. what are the lines of negotiation? what are the aims of the negotiations? we want to, we will and we must intervene on behalf of the citizens. let me conclude by saying that this is by no means the end of the matter. we are, for example, currently negotiating the right of committees of inquiry to investigate where abuses and wrongdoing have occurred. and we have the same problem with the council, but also with the member states, that we are not to be given direct access to essential documents, that we cannot hear certain witnesses and so on. we must fight for this in the name of the interests of the people and in the name of democracy. otherwise we cannot carry out our important function for the citizens here. but today we've made a great deal of progress. i thank all those involved for their cooperation and wish the agreement every success.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to begin by thanking the members for this debate. we are not here for ourselves, but we are representing the citizens of europe and we have a very important task to perform in this context. we are obliged to monitor and supervise the activities of the institutions and of the council . we are obliged to consult, also within the framework of our budgetary responsibility, within the framework of our legislative responsibility. we can only assume this responsibility if we have the necessary information. knowledge is power, and this is especially true in politics, especially when one side knows something that the other does not. dictatorships always work with this tool, that the important things are kept hidden, that the citizens don't know the things. what we need is transparency. we shall take a big step in that direction with the vote today. i know the complaints that keep coming in. i didn't get this document or that document. i must make that clear, too. we made a deal today. the practice has to evolve first. the culture of trusting cooperation, of proactive information sharing -- that needs to evolve, but i'm building on that. i can say one thing clearly: we do not know whether we will always receive all the documents immediately. we know very well that without this agreement we will not have a large number of relevant documents. it is not acceptable for parliament to deliberate and decide on an agreement such as acta without being able to see the necessary documents. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the situation in the countries of the former soviet union, and to present a report on the situation in the countries of the former soviet union. but the committee could not see them, the rapporteurs could not see them, and so on. it has to be different. it's going to be different. it's a big step towards more transparency, and transparency is the prerequisite for a functioning democracy. i would like to invite all colleagues to use this new right proactively and meaningfully so that we can do our jobs. i would like to conclude by thanking all those involved, both in the council and in this house, in particular mr lehne, mrs wallis, mrs harms and mr swoboda.
member of the commission. − madam president, today the european parliament is about to vote on a legislative proposal that will enable the cross-border use of, and access to, so-called ‘orphan works’. this is an important milestone because this directive will help our public libraries, archives, museums, educational establishments and broadcasters to bring a significant part of the eu’s cultural heritage back to life. it will allow this heritage to be more easily available online for all our citizens to enjoy. this proposal is important not only because it is a tangible implementation of the intellectual property strategy adopted by the commission last year, but also because it proves that by working together it is possible to bridge the gap between copyright and technology in the internet age. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur, ms lidia joanna geringer de oedenberg, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, ms angelika niebler, ms alexandra thein and mr christian engström, for their constructive and collaborative approach, which made it possible to reach a compromise agreement at first reading with the council and the member states. let me take this opportunity also to congratulate the presidencies of poland, denmark and now cyprus for their work and their commitment to ensuring a successful outcome. the proposal before us targets the specific copyright issues relating to orphan works. the lack of knowledge about who owns the rights to a literary, musical or audiovisual work presents our cultural institutions with a dilemma: how can they digitise and put the works online, so that everyone can access them without infringing copyright. the directive resolves that dilemma. it provides our cultural institutions with the legal certainty they need to use orphan works, once they have carried out a diligent search to identify the rightholders. the text before us is, in some ways, different to the one that we presented to you last year. i will mention, for example, the inclusion of unpublished works and of so-called ‘partial orphan works’, or the setting up of an eu-wide database on orphan works, which will avoid the multiplicity of databases at national level and make it easier for rightholders and beneficiaries to check the status of the use of orphan works. these are very positive changes that the commission welcomes. the commission also welcomes the flexibity shown by the co-legislators to enable the beneficiaries to retrieve some of the digitisation costs by allowing them to generate revenues when they use orphan works in the pursuit of their mission of public interest. this is an important consideration, especially given the economic difficulties we currently face. finally, i would like to mention that reappearing rightholders, as the case may be, will be entitled to fair compensation for the use made of their works if a number of criteria are fulfilled. the constructive discussions that we have today and have had over the past year demonstrate our mutual interest in building a digital single market, step by step, block by block, but we must make sure that both european citizens and our cultural institutions are in a position to reap the benefits of the directive as soon as possible. i therefore urge the council, after parliament, to support the compromise text agreed in trialogues last june. i would also like to call on the member states to ensure a timely implementation of the directive once it enters into force.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the new directive will create a basis for the handling of books, newspapers, works of art, films, music, television productions which are protected by copyright but for which the right holder cannot be identified or traced. it also provides for the public to have access to books, films, photographs and other intellectual creations for which no copyright holder can be found. and so a cultural treasure is being hoisted. it was particularly important for us in the committee on culture to emphasize the special importance of the diversity of the european union's cultural heritage in this legislative initiative. in the archives of our museums, libraries, publishing houses, broadcasting institutions, there are countless unused works, and just because the copyright owner is not known, they should not be made available so far. that will change with the directive. it allows the use of this cultural good in the future, provided that careful research is ensured before publication. this is a very important point, so that it is not said lightly: we can't find the copyright owner. because a balance had to be found between the real rights of creators of works and the need of the public to be able to use such works where the legal situation is not clear. a particular focus for us is also that we had to ensure that both known and unknown rights holders continue to be fully protected. where the rights holders cannot be found, the draft law will make it possible to exploit the digitisation of orphan works. projects such as europeana and other major european digitisation projects, but also our museums, archives and educational institutions, as well as public broadcasting, will benefit from this scheme. in future, however, the aim must also be to open to the public the orphaned works in the archives of private publishers. the draft directive and the compromise that has now been reached are, in my view, a compromise and a first step in the right direction. i believe that the cultural treasure to be lifted holds enormous potential. we should continue to work on this when the directive is revised in two years' time.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank mrs geringer de oedenberg for the outcome of her negotiations with the council. i know that it was difficult to get the many good ideas we had here in parliament to pass through the tough negotiations with the council. i am sure that we have now found a viable way, with the directive, to give orphan works the status of literary works and to preserve and make accessible this cultural heritage for the future. i have some doubts, however, whether we have really found an efficient solution for audiovisual works. the eu-wide archive, especially that of broadcasters after 1945, has accumulated an invaluable cultural heritage. preserving this cultural heritage for the future is a huge challenge, both technically and financially. the number of rightholders in audiovisual works is regularly higher than in written works. the diligent search which the directive also requires for them is therefore costly, time-consuming and requires a great deal of manpower. there is a great cultural policy interest in preserving the audiovisual heritage, especially in the internet age. we must now look closely at whether the directive has succeeded in reducing appreciably the stock of audiovisual works in the european union which cannot be used because of legal uncertainty. the revision clause offers us a good opportunity to do this. in any case, it is necessary to prevent the irreversible loss of audiovisual material in archives, because legal clarification proves too costly. the involvement of collecting societies and other legal clarification systems could help to eliminate legal uncertainties, to allow authors to access their rights and thus also to raise cultural treasures. i wish we had gone a little further at this point. but the first step has been taken, and i think we will continue to work on it in the coming years.
i have to say, madam president, we are dealing here with a concrete step towards copyright reform. for months we have been discussing the need for copyright reform to adapt it to the digital world. we are now dealing with a concrete step and an improvement, and i should like to stress this first, because it is very important to me. we are not dealing with a deterioration, but we are dealing with an improvement in access. as always in such situations, the question is: is the glass half full or half empty? i believe that there are indeed open questions and unresolved problems. i'm not happy about this either, but i think it's still incredibly important in the current situation to be able to offer legal status to orphaned works now. that's what we fought for. it is a concrete improvement. there are other steps to follow. that is why the revision clause is important, so that after two years we can evaluate what we have learned and what shortcomings we have. i shall therefore vote in favour of this directive.
i have to say, madam president, legal cross-border online access to orphan works is essential for the preservation of our diverse cultural heritage in europe. the directive to be adopted today will finally enable public institutions in europe - libraries, museums, archives, etc. - to take orphan works from their cellars, digitize them and make them available to the general public. we have found a solution, after long and difficult discussions in parliament and also with the council, which serves both the interests of individual rights holders in the adequate protection of their works and the public interest in the dissemination of such works. we liberals have insisted that before a work is published, a really thorough and effective search for the copyright holder to be protected must be carried out. if the rightholder then comes forward later, he is entitled to at least adequate compensation. it is also important that we have put a stop to purely commercial exploitation. on the other hand, public institutions are dependent on private institutions to support them in digitisation, especially in times of tight cash flow. public private partnership is the right approach to make as many works as possible available to the public. it is high time that the european parliament finally made the cultural heritage of today, which has not been used, accessible to the citizens. i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular, because it was a very difficult negotiation, and we had taken different paths at the beginning. i do not think that the greens think that this directive is worthless. i think that if that were the case, the revision clause would allow for a review after two years. but i am quite sure that we can start digitising now and that we have the means to do so.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. only simple and understandable law is good law. we are adopting european legislation in the public interest for the benefit of citizens. this is why it is necessary to make european law simple, easy to understand and accessible to all. as european legislators, we must constantly monitor and optimise our own work. that is what the citizens expect of us. it is important that we increasingly engage with national parliaments to shape the law and to act together as guardians of the principle of subsidiarity. this is how we can ensure that only european rules are applied to what is too much for the national level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is particularly important at this difficult time for the european union that european legislation is accepted by all, including our national representatives. the early warning mechanism enshrined in the lisbon treaty, which many have described as a paper tiger, showed its potential for power for the first time yesterday. the commission has decided to withdraw its proposal for a regulation on the right to collective strike following complaints from 18 national parliaments. the commission has also been criticised for not adapting the existing 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making to the lisbon treaty. the lisbon treaty has introduced new elements to secondary legislation. in view of the immense practical importance of these acts, the agreement needs to be updated.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would like to propose on behalf of my group that the next vote on the häfner report be by roll call. i was part of the negotiating team, and i'd like to know who's voting on how.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would ask that the vote on the legislative declaration be postponed and referred back to committee so that we can enter into trilogue.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the scientific and technological cooperation, especially in the countries undergoing change, is always extremely important to me. in keeping with the principle of 'building trust through working together', it can also really help to break down barriers, perhaps based on values or religion. it is often the only way to get in touch with the countries. that is why i think this is extremely important, and the recent events in the arab region show us how important cooperation is. and especially when you do that in the science and technology field, it's a great thing.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i confess i was wrong. i do not wish to make a statement on this report but on the moreira report on the agreement on immediate autonomous trade preferences for pakistan. please call me back.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. energy is a vital resource in all developed industrial countries, including the european union. firstly, we are dealing with the fact that the member states are unfortunately still acting in isolation. that is why we need to work together. secondly, we must ensure that we are as self-sufficient as possible in energy. thirdly, we must ensure that the energy mix is stable in the case of energy imports through intergovernmental agreements. it is very important that parliament should also be involved, that the commission should also be involved in bilateral negotiations. i repeat: everything we decide here must be integrated into the energy supply of the european union so that we can continue to develop our economic base tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. products such as dresden's christmas ham or the black forest ham are known not only beyond the borders of europe, but these names represent a quality promise to the consumer that he can rely on. the label benefits not only consumers but also producers, who may not be able to survive on the market without the protection of certification. i am therefore convinced that the introduction of the quality labels 20 years ago has achieved its aim and that traditional and regional food products have been promoted. i therefore agree with the rapporteur and thank her for adding further quality information, which is necessary. i would also like to thank you again for the initiative to simplify the existing certification procedures. on the other hand, a few questions remained open, but this is not something special in the political day-to-day business. we will also continue to discuss this matter in the committee responsible in friendly dialogue with the commission.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the social market economy needs clear rules of the game, and in the social market economy there must be fairness, because fair competition, fair conditions also create mutual trust. this is particularly true in financial relations. many say that money can ruin a friendship. we have a number of things - as my predecessor has already said - that are not right in the european union. i've had a hard time getting approval here. on the other hand, i have heard that the rapporteur and the committee responsible are also willing not only to behave themselves but also to engage in a vigorous debate with the commission in order to put an end to these irregularities. i would also like to make a few points of controversy about the recent financial crisis: it was not the craftsmen who brought the world to the brink of ruin, but the financial elites of the world. we must therefore be careful and restore fair competition.
one might grin and say that even in our modern world, everything really needs to be regulated. i think it is important, of course, that we not only concern ourselves with the protection of works where everything is known by copyright. no, it is also important to think about cases where the authors and creators are no longer known, for whatever reason. our european culture is extremely diverse, which is further enhanced by the digitisation of orphan works. but care must be taken to check carefully whether a work is really orphaned, that is, whether the creator or author is really unknown to us. otherwise, we run the risk of copyright being hijacked as the basis for the motivation to create new works. i therefore advocate the creation of a comprehensive regulatory framework to prevent this from happening.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. we condemn the barbaric regime and its brutal acts of violence. but we are concerned that there are radical and dangerous forces in the opposition and in the underground who are abusing and escalating the situation. we therefore want a peaceful syrian order in which the various ethnic groups, the various religious communities, not least the many christians in syria, have a chance of survival and can contribute to the building of a balanced civil society that also maintains peace with its lebanese and israeli neighbours. we have a great responsibility. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the efforts of the member states to achieve this. europe is particularly needed here.
in writing. - i voted against the agreement on immediate autonomous trade preferences for pakistan. the planned abolition of import duties on 75 products puts thousands of jobs at risk in the eu. this is particularly true for the textile industry, but also for the manufacturers of industrial ethanol in germany, for example. in view of the tense economic situation in the eu, these negative effects of the agreement are unacceptable. the proposed agreement is not only economically problematic, but it also misses the original purpose of trade facilitation as an immediate relief. however, india's initial refusal to accept the trade agreement in the world trade organization (wto) has delayed the negotiations on the agreement for a long time. two years after the flood disaster, there can be no question of short-term emergency aid. of course, the eu's relations with pakistan, which can make an important contribution to security in the region, are of great importance. however, the eu has already demonstrated its solidarity with pakistan by pledging over eur 415 million for emergency humanitarian assistance and by providing an additional eur 114.8 million through the realignment of ongoing reconstruction programmes. the mixing of development aid and economic policy, as the agreement would entail, is disproportionate in the light of the problems described above.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. i am very grateful that we are all calling this massacre a massacre in full clarity, as the title of the resolution says. and, dear mrs de keyser, if your group had agreed to this during the negotiations, it would have been in the text and not just in the title. that is why i am all the more grateful to you for making that clear. the south african side should not be mistaken: this house has a clear common position. we want to support south africa. south africa is an important economic and political partner for us. this country has also suffered terribly under the cruel apartheid regime, and we europeans have a certain degree of responsibility. but today, we must ensure that democracy and the rule of law are not strangled in this country. the signs are clearly visible that this massacre was not a tragic isolated incident or an accident, but that it may be a systematic decline in democracy. there's an important phrase: defend the beginnings! that is the meaning of this resolution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the violent protests that preceded it, in which ten people lost their lives, the brutal clashes between police and striking miners in marikana on 6 august, in which 34 people were killed and 78 others were seriously injured, are the bloodiest since the end of apartheid in south africa. such a form of escalation is to be strongly condemned. the riots that preceded it and the events themselves are the result of the great social disparities in the country and should lead to a deeper examination of the causes. the development of this incident also demonstrates the urgent need for improved crisis management, especially for security forces. the loss of confidence in the security forces can only be overcome by the greatest possible transparency, impartiality and fair judicial processes. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of workers from discrimination. the south african government must therefore take appropriate steps to tackle the profound effects, but above all the causes, decisively. better training for security forces and de-escalation training, better legal framework for the social partners' disputes and bold, transparent and fair information are what we need at the moment and we should support our south african partners in this.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the government of myanmar has taken a huge, significant path of opening up. it has granted political freedoms, it has released almost all political prisoners, and it has successfully negotiated ceasefires with almost all ethnic groups. the more contradictory and shocking it is, the more discrimination against the rohingya minority has increased and the more extreme and open violence has occurred, with deaths, injuries, internally displaced persons and refugees. even a state of emergency has been declared in some places. we had a very intensive discussion on this in the human rights committee in july and our demands are also reflected in today's resolution. first, those responsible for these riots must be punished. there are consequences to be drawn. on the other hand, the government and all political forces in myanmar must find the courage and political will to work on the root causes and find solutions. it is absolutely essential that the rohingya be given citizenship in the future. the necessary legal framework must be created. citizenship is very important. it gives the right to live as a citizen in a multicultural state with equal rights and obligations. the eu should demand that the government do this and be at its disposal with advice and action on how to do this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in the safarow case, azerbaijan must respect the commitments it has voluntarily entered into in the field of human rights, democracy and the rule of law as a member of the council of europe and also in the eastern partnership. international treaties and agreements must be respected. the eu should support azerbaijan in implementing these efforts to the extent possible. i am committed to the eu stepping up its efforts to mediate the nagorno-karabakh conflict, thereby engaging and contributing to peace in the region. the active participation and political will of both azerbaijanis and armenians are a basic prerequisite. this requires dialogue at the highest political level and the involvement of civil society at large. the ead and the commission need to work closely with local, regional, national and international actors on the ground to achieve synergies. i would like to ask whether it is useful to blame the hungarian government or whether it is not necessary to make very clear statements to the azerbaijani government.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 13 september 2012.
ladies and gentlemen, before we begin our deliberations, i'd like to have your attention for a moment. i would like to draw your attention to the tragic case of malala yousafzai. the 14-year-old pakistani girl was shot in the head by a taliban while sitting on a school bus. your crime: promoting girls' education. allow me, on behalf of the whole house, to express my deepest dismay and condemn this cowardly act in the strongest terms. (applause from the centre) we call on the pakistani authorities to hold the perpetrators accountable and to ensure that all children, especially young girls, have safe access to education. this young girl, malala, is a symbol for more than 250 million young girls worldwide who live in poverty and lack access to, or the prospect of, basic rights -- like education. we have celebrated the first international day of the girl child less than two weeks ago, on 11 october, to raise awareness of the human rights violations of girls worldwide. it is our moral responsibility to protect these girls and give them a better future. in the case of malala, i also feel personally affected as the father of a daughter. how can there be people who want to shoot a 14-year-old girl who does nothing but like to go to school herself and argue that other girls in this country can do the same, so they can claim a natural right to go to school? i wish this brave child, this 14-year-old girl's rights activist, a full recovery and hope that her efforts will inspire a new generation of young women around the world to fight for their rights with the same courage. (applause from the centre)
ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the conference of group chairmen has decided to cancel the brussels plenary session in november. i would like to take this opportunity to briefly inform you of the facts and the situation. as you all know, the ceiling in the chamber in brussels has become unstable. we found that during inspections that are done regularly, three of the 21 ceiling beams had cracks. on august 31st, i was informed that there might be a danger. i therefore ordered the chamber to be closed immediately. i would add that, according to the first report which was presented to us, the most vulnerable seat in the chamber was the president's seat. so you can expect me to act immediately. further investigations revealed that the damage was more serious and was not due to the use of materials or to a construction error, but that it was clearly due to material wear and tear that was not foreseeable in this form. i have asked the secretary-general to pull up all the possible registers and to bring in all the experts that are available. the belgian government - i have informed prime minister di rupo - has put specialists from the belgian building authority at the disposal of parliament, who are assisting us in all decisions. we assume, ladies and gentlemen, that the repair work is a long-term process. i'd like to add that we had to support the ceiling from the inside. but the supporting measures themselves are so strong that the scaffolding that has been put in place to support the ceiling also puts a strain on the floor - so much so that we have to support the spaces below it as well and cannot use them. that's why we cleared a number of rooms underneath. the solutions will be presented over the next two weeks and two internationally renowned government-recognised testing institutes will be involved in the safety assessment of the proposed solutions. i do not know when we will be able to reopen the chamber in brussels. but i can tell you that, in my experience, such construction takes a long time. despite these difficult circumstances, our work continues. i also invited chancellor merkel, who was scheduled to speak at the november plenary session, to come to parliament anyway, as part of an open conference of presidents. the epp group has given us the floor for mrs merkel, which is a pleasant surprise, because the epp group's chamber is the largest chamber after the plenary. we shall hold an open conference of presidents there, with a procedural approach, essentially, like the chancellor's speech in the house. i have agreed that with mrs merkel. and now, ladies and gentlemen, a quick reminder: i have written to you - i don't know how many times in the last few months - letters, which i hope you all have read, relating to a photo shoot we are going to have here tomorrow. at 12.30 tomorrow, a few minutes before the vote, a 360-degree panorama of the chamber will be taken in 3d quality with members in their seats. you remember, i wrote you this several times at several intervals. however, i have been told that there are colleagues who have said that they have never received a letter from me. i don't think so, i'd rather assume they didn't read the letter. so for all those who haven't opened their mailboxes, whether it's handy or telematic, or whatever you call it, tomorrow, at 12:25, a 360-degree camera will be set up here that will record you all, and we will then post your counter boxes in your seats so that every voter and every voter and every interested party can instantly identify each and every member of congress.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr giovanni la via and mr derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 all items (12749/2012 c7-0233/2012 2012/2092 (bud)) (a7-0311/2012).
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the environment committee, which is responsible for a very small part of the european budget, points out that we will not achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy if we do not provide sufficient funds for environmental, climate protection and biodiversity programmes and measures. we have therefore withdrawn the totally incomprehensible cuts made by the council in the commission proposal. the council has also signed the commitment to sustainable growth. the commission has been very careful in drawing up the budget anyway. it has only provided for an increase of 0.72% for climate and environment policy. which, in plain english, means nothing but a cut. the inflation rate is 2%. the council's approach to the agencies is even more worrying. let 's be clear about this: the commission has already priced in the minus 1% staff in its proposal and, as usual, it is also taking in the funds which the agencies consider necessary. the shirt is therefore already short enough for the agencies. and then the council comes along and puts more of a spin on it. bums, you can see the butt! the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament together. they cannot fulfil them unless they are given the means to do so. we expect the commission to submit a supplementary and amending budget in all cases and as soon as possible, and we expect the council to be convinced of our good arguments in the negotiations with parliament. we know the council is incorruptible, but at least it can accept reason!
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. mr president, commissioner, the honourable presidency! you said for the presidency, we should give the right signal. the itre committee has done that. we have examined closely and have only very selectively brought back to the original position the commission's approaches in our proposal. the right signal must also be that it is pointless to cut where there is european added value, because it does not make us richer, but poorer! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council's proposals will reduce payments so dramatically, particularly in the area of the programme for competitiveness and innovation, which is crucial for small and mediumsized enterprises, that next year the funds will not even be sufficient for half a year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as the epp's budgetary spokesman, i should also like to thank my colleague, mr derek vaughan, for the very close and good cooperation we had with all the other shadow rapporteurs. although croatia has been added, and this has added additional tasks to the european parliament, we have managed to maintain an increase of 1.9%, i.e. even below the normal rate of inflation. we have also made clear savings in the various sectors, so that we have been able to adopt a really sensible approach for the european parliament, also in agreement with the commission or in line with the commission. i would also ask that the members who, perhaps with no ill will, are thinking of the need to make even more cuts in the european parliament, also think of the need for members to have decent working conditions and the opportunity to examine and deal with the various proposals that come from the commission and the proposals that are now being put forward, for example, at the european summit by the member states. we need a competent parliament and therefore also a sensible, good and solid institution.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i am very disappointed by what we heard today from the representative of the cypriot presidency of the council, how restrictive they intend to be with the important instrument of the european budget for 2013. i very much regret that the council still does not find an appropriate balance between austerity and the necessary growth stimulus at european level. we need sustainable growth! we need progress in the fight against climate change! we must move the energy revolution forward. we must invest in renewable energy because it creates new jobs. and above all, we must give the people of the european union new confidence. but how do you intend to give new confidence to the people in need when the commission is no longer able to disburse the funds for the european social fund in 2012? that's the wrong signal you're sending. i therefore strongly criticise the attitude of the council, which is not in a position to provide the necessary funds for the treaties which it has itself co-signed. this undermines - i say it again - confidence in the european project and in the responsibility of the european council. that is the wrong policy and that is why we must reject it. we have just heard that there are also problems of payment in lifelong learning - programmes which are really directed at individual citizens, at students. this cannot go on! that's gonna have to change next year. if you want to instill new confidence in the ability of the european union to act, you must not cut this budget in the way that the council is currently planning to do. the green group is of course also proposing savings, for example on the iter fusion reactor, which unfortunately a majority in this house and in the council wants to finance. we do not think this is the right signal in times of the necessary energy transition, but we need to shift more towards wind energy, photovoltaics and other sustainable energy sources. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. but we as members of parliament could save even more if we were prepared to do without short-haul business flights. i hope the colleagues will reconsider!
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 23 october 2012, at 6 p.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the one-minute explanations pursuant to rule 150 of the rules of procedure.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the nordseewerke in emden was forced to declare bankruptcy last wednesday because a guarantee from the lower saxony state government was surprisingly not renewed. this company, with 700 skilled jobs, is in the process of transforming itself from a shipyard into an offshore wind energy supplier. and now the idea is that this company can be saved by a mass loan and the jobs can also be saved, because the 700 colleagues at siag and the north sea works have already had to accept substantial cuts in wages. i therefore ask the commission to examine this procedure in good faith, but also in good time, so that these 700 jobs are not jeopardised, because these jobs are needed to organise the energy transition and to ensure sustainable energy on europe's seas. please don't let the colleagues there suffer from the state government's poor crisis management.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr paul rübig, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on 'small and medium-sized enterprises: competitiveness and entrepreneurial opportunities' (com (2011) 0642 - 2012/2042 (ini)) (a7-0293/2012).
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, the commission would like to thank mr rübig and also all the other meps who contributed to this report, which reflects the great commitment of this institution towards european smes. the commission welcomes the support for its actions announced in the communications on the internationalisation of smes, industrial policy and smart regulation. you are right. smes are the backbone of the economy. they represent around two thirds of all private sector jobs and generate around 58 % of the value added. they have also created 85 % of new jobs in recent years. however, they have been seriously affected by the crisis and need help to face new challenges. the commission can assure you that the european strategy for smes will focus on the promotion of sme-friendly activities across the full range of eu policies and spending programmes. this includes in particular the simplification of procedures and the creation of one-stop shops. but we will also provide dedicated support and services reflecting the particular needs of the sme community at european level through the programme for the competiveness of enterprises and smes (the ‘cosme’ programme). the report by mr rübig calls for an internationalisation strategy for smes, and the commission can only support this idea. currently, only 13 % of smes export to countries outside the union, and we all know where the future growth opportunities are: in the fast-growing economies in asia, south america and africa. the oecd has estimated that 90 % of world growth in 2012 is taking place outside europe. the commission is currently identifying the gaps in the support to businesses abroad. the result of this mapping exercise will be presented in december. next year we will present concrete action at european level to address the difficulties that smes face on the ground. however, i can assure you that we will continue the current successful initiatives such as the partnering services of the enterprise europe network, the china sme ipr helpdesk and the established sme business centres in third countries. in this context i would also like to mention the missions for growth of vice-president tajani. in 2012 missions have taken place to brazil, the united states, mexico and colombia. these missions have been a real success, judging from the positive feedback and the conclusion of political agreements in a number of sectors such as sme policy and industrial cooperation. concerning the reduction of the administrative burden, this is a concern for all of us. the commission is strengthening the application of the sme test in our impact assessment procedure. but, as you know, smes still suffer from burdensome regulations. this is why the commission is currently working in close cooperation with smes and sme organisations to identify the ‘top ten’ most burdensome pieces of legislation. an open public consultation is ongoing until christmas. we have no time to lose, and the result of this consultation will allow us to go to the core of the problems. we will screen these problematic pieces of legislation and analyse where there is scope for introducing lighter regimes for smes while preserving the purpose of the legislation, such as health and security aspects. but in addition, the future eu budget will also provide targeted financial support for smes. the cosme programme will cover actions in favour of the competitiveness of smes, such as improving access to finance and the enterprise europe network. the cosme programme will also aim at improving the sustainability of eu businesses and improving access to markets within the eu and internationally – all priorities mentioned in your report, mr rübig. cosme will also enhance the erasmus for entrepreneurs initiative specifically mentioned by mr rübig. therefore, cosme is the programme to support the political priorities underlined by you. in these times of austerity, we also note the request in the report to significantly increase the budget of this important programme. to sum up, commission president barroso has on several occasions underlined that smes are one of the priorities of his mandate, and i can assure you that he is determined to put that into practice using all the eu instruments at his disposal.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 23 october 2012, at 6 p.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs kristiina ojuland, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the introduction of common visa restrictions for russian officials responsible for the death of sergei magnitsky (2012/2142 (ini)) (a7-0285/2012).
member of the commission. − mr president, i am grateful for the opportunity to take part in this debate on the magnitsky case on behalf of the vice-president/high representative. the european parliament’s recommendation to the council on establishing common visa restrictions for russian officials involved in the sergei magnitsky case is a significant initiative. parliament has been vocal and consistent about this case in recent years, from the european parliament resolution of 16 december 2010 to a number of hearings and debates and the recommendation the house will vote on tomorrow. all these initiatives testify to the great importance the european parliament and the european public at large attach to the magnitsky case. these initiatives lend much weight to our common efforts to prompt the authorities in moscow to investigate the case swiftly and thoroughly. they give further legitimacy to the eu’s continuous pressure on the russian federation to bring the magnitsky case to a thorough conclusion. for our part, the vice-president/high representative has consistently called on russia to ensure a proper investigation. we are raising this with the russian authorities at all levels. indeed, the magnitsky case is consistently part of the agenda for our twice-yearly human rights consultations. moreover, it is regularly brought up at ministerial level as well as at our summits. last month, vice-president/high representative ashton addressed the magnitsky case in this house. during the debate on the political use of justice she noted with great concern that the continuous lack of progress on the magnitsky case was part of a general trend of worrisome legislative and judicial developments in activities in the russian federation. this trend is of serious concern to the european union. the speech and the debate that followed were reported by the russian press. in april of this year, president van rompuy, in a very significant political gesture, wrote a letter to the then president, medvedev, specifically on the magnitsky case. president van rompuy made three important points in this letter. first, he urged the russian government to bring the case to a comprehensive conclusion. second, he called on russia to close the posthumous prosecution of mr magnitsky. third, he called for an end to the intimidation of mr magnitsky’s mother and widow. the european external action service keeps reminding the russian side that a response to the letter remains outstanding. all these points, as well as the outstanding response to president van rompuy’s letter, were also reiterated most recently by commissioner malmström at the permanent partnership council on freedom, security and justice which took place on 2 october in nicosia. we have taken this matter very seriously and will continue to do so, for three very good reasons. first, because of the nature of the case itself. it is a case of a russian citizen and a lawyer, a young father being arrested and mistreated by law enforcement officers for standing up against suspected fraud and abuse by government officials. as such it is a case of grave abuse of the law and of human rights. the european union is founded on the core values of human dignity, freedom, the rule of law and respect for human rights, and we are committed to defending these. the magnitsky case has become one of the emblematic cases in this respect, not only for the russian people but also for the eu. the second reason why we continue to be active in the magnitsky case is that we believe that russia itself should have a great interest in solving it. the case has come to symbolise the state of the judiciary and the rule of law in the russian federation. business people consider this a litmus test for the stability, predictability and safety of russia as a destination for investment. particularly as this is a multifaceted case with a strong undercurrent of corruption, anti-corruption efforts are being woven into russia’s modernisation efforts, on which we are working together with them. solving this case would send a strong signal to partners and investors that russia is serious in its anti-corruption efforts. thirdly, it is in the interest of the eu to have at its borders a stable, democratic, economically-viable russia with a well-grounded rule of law. steps like russia’s recent accession to the wto are important in integrating russia into global rules-based systems. this is a step in the right direction to gaining global confidence in this marketplace. cases such as magnitsky’s, unfortunately, do exactly the opposite. what is needed now is concrete action on the part of the russian government: a clear decision to properly and thoroughly investigate the magnitsky case, bringing those responsible to justice. as has been said, we take very careful note of the recommendation parliament addressed to the council on restrictive measures on russian officials involved in the sergei magnitsky case. it sends a clear and strong message. acting on this recommendation would require unanimity from all the member states. as those responsible for the overall relationship between the european union and russia, we must carefully balance our actions towards our neighbour. restrictive measures by the eu are a very sensitive instrument. such measures should only be considered in very specific situations and in accordance with existing eu guidelines. furthermore, restrictive measures should be used as part of an integrated and comprehensive policy approach involving political dialogue, complementary efforts and other instruments. let me assure you that the magnitsky case will remain on the bilateral agenda in our contacts with russia. sanctions should be used only as a last resort, otherwise we risk them becoming the only instrument in many of our relationships whenever such crimes are committed. in conclusion, let me reiterate once again, on behalf of high representative/vice-president ashton, that we will continue to pursue the magnitsky case with the russian federation at every opportunity.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 23 october 2012, at 6 p.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr vital moreira, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on trade and economic relations with the united states (2012/2149 ((ini)) (a7-0321/2012).
member of the commission. − mr president, you have taken an excellent initiative in expressing your interest in strengthening eu-us relations at this important juncture. we all agree on the importance of eu-us trade relations. almost eur 2 billion of goods and services are traded every day between the european union and the united states. investment stocks are at over eur 2 trillion, and almost half the world’s gross domestic product and one third of world trade is generated by the two sides of the atlantic, taken together. these numbers illustrate that the eu-us trade and investment relationship is second to none. however, more can be done. at a time of economic hardship, enhanced trade makes an important contribution to growth and jobs. this is why we are committed to making the current flagship trade and investment undertaking a success. at the november 2011 summit meeting, us and eu leaders established the high-level working group on jobs and growth, tasking it with identifying ways to increase trade in investment to support mutually beneficial job creation, economic growth and competitiveness. on 19 june, we adopted an interim report in which we reached the preliminary conclusion that a comprehensive agreement addressing a broad range of bilateral trade and investment issues would provide the most significant benefits from the various options considered. it is also the best option from a political point of view, and it allows for a package deal. no political decision to launch negotiations has yet been reached. the process started at the last eu-us summit has clearly moved in that direction. we are working hard with our us colleagues with a view to drafting the requested final report before the end of the year. the final report is supposed to make a recommendation on the way forward, which we think should be the launch of comprehensive negotiations. parliament’s report is very timely indeed. it constitutes a balanced and constructive contribution to the work of the high-level working group. we will take into account the views and positions expressed therein to the greatest possible extent. may i thank the honourable members again for their valuable contribution.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 23 october 2012, at 6 p.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the report by mrs jacqueline foster, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the implementation of the single european sky legislation (2012/2005 (ini)) (a7-0254/2012).
member of the commission. − mr president, the report on the implementation of the single european sky comes at a crucial time for this policy, with many deadlines fast approaching. 2012 is a critical year for the single european sky, with four key deliverables including nine functional airspace blocks to be operational by december 2012. i therefore welcome the report and thank the rapporteur, mrs foster, and the committee on transport and tourism. the implementation of the single european sky has been the subject of frequent debates in this house and also, more recently, at the high-level conference in limassol. the main undisputed conclusion of this debate is that progress on the initiative is slow and the expected benefits are yet to fully materialise. we still lack an integrated approach, and the fragmented governance structure based on national borders prevails. these inefficiencies add an extra eur 5 billion annually in costs for air navigation services. there is, above all, a problem of timing. there is an urgent need to act quickly and push ahead with the implementation. one of the reasons for this situation seems to be the lack of political willingness from member states. the commission has recently written to transport ministers, reminding them of their obligations and urging prompt and proactive decisions. the commission will increase its efforts to ensure timely and full implementation. if need be, the commission will take legal action against member states that do not comply. secondly, though many positive steps have already been taken, we need to move beyond compliance and towards actual delivery of results. i agree with you that the performance pillar needs to be further promoted and concrete operational gains should shortly materialise as a result of the implementation of the functional airspace blocks. the commission is currently evaluating measures to accelerate the implementation of the single european sky and the sesar programme with a view to unleashing the beneficial effects of the single european sky. the commission agrees to report back to the parliament in 2013 on the progress made with regard to the implementation of the single european sky, as well as on its strategy for a more decisive process of implementation. the underlying principles of the existing legislation remain valid. we do not have to return to the drawing board and should now make some changes in order to gain speed and ensure delivery. we need to simplify and clarify the legislation. i can inform you that we are already working on new proposals to accelerate implementation of the single sky, complement some initiatives which are not yet complete and strengthen the existing legislation. the commission’s intention is to deliver these proposals in spring 2013.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 23 october 2012, at 6 p.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the report by mr bach, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the rights of users of all modes of transport (2012/2067 (ini)) (a7-0287/2012).
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr georges bach, and the members of the committee on transport and tourism for their work in taking the issue of passenger rights forward. a constructive debate has taken place since the commission presented its vision for a more coherent and effective implementation of eu passenger rights across all modes of transport in its communication at the end of last year. i would like to make the following specific comments on the report: the commission shares the objective of consolidating the current framework into a single cross-modal regulation, but in the medium term. the regulations on passengers’ rights in the field of coach and maritime transport have yet to come into force. there remain major differences between transport modes, and the convergence of passengers’ rights will inevitably be a gradual process. the commission agrees with the creation of an eu-wide complaint form for each transport mode. a complaint form already exists for aviation. the commission intends to develop forms for the other modes, taking into account their specificities. the commission is also conscious of the impact that airline bankruptcy has on flight-only passengers. the recent failures of spanair and malev were collectively well managed, thanks to a proactive approach based on providing information and promoting other carriers’ cheap rescue fares. this proves that the current legislation makes adequate provision for dealing with bankruptcies. however, solutions are needed to ensure passengers are not left stranded and are quickly reimbursed. the commission therefore intends to come up, in late 2012, with these new solutions – which are not necessarily of a legislative nature – in order to ensure implementation that is as swift as possible. finally, the issue of price transparency in aviation is addressed in several pieces of legislation, most notably the air services regulation. i would like to inform the honourable members that this legislation is currently undergoing a fitness check to establish whether it is adequate for its original purpose and if it should be revised. the commission will inform parliament of the results in due course. the work done by parliament in the area of passenger rights is providing valuable guidance to the commission, especially in view of the forthcoming revision of the regulation on air passenger rights.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 23 october 2012, at 6 p.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
does anyone want to speak before we get to the agenda? mr audy, you have the floor.
mr audy, i heard your remarks, and you had already informed me of this. i am sorry to say that our rules of procedure do not allow for such a retroactive interpretation. i would ask you to understand that we have to proceed as the committee on the rules of procedure has decided, at the request of the house. the interpretation of article 191 is clear. i beg your understanding that i cannot change this retroactively. unfortunately, in politics as in human life, you can't change anything retroactively, and you have to live with that. i'm really sorry about that.
the first item on the agenda is the joint debate on the interim report by reimer böge and ivailo kalfin, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the need to ensure a positive outcome of the authorisation procedure for the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020 (com ((2011) 0398 2011/0177 app)) (a7-0313/2012) and the report by jean-luc dehaene, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a council regulation laying down the methods and procedures for the implementation of own resources based on value added tax (com ((2011) 0737 c7-0504/2011 2011/0333 cns) (a7-0316/2012).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to make a correction, mr president. the negotiating team also includes mrs jensen from alde. mr president, that is the way budgetary officials are, they pay attention to every little thing. i would like to say in return that i very much welcome the fact that you, as president of this house, are working hard to democratize european budgetary policy, despite any possible disagreement with your interview on sunday evening. but this belongs somewhere else. mr kalfin and i are presenting an interim report today which should ultimately help to speed up and facilitate the procedure for approving the multiannual financial framework. we are doing this on the basis of the work already done in the past by the special committee, the sure committee, chaired by jutta haug and the report by salvador garriga. i should like to express my gratitude to the past and present presidencies, because we are here in a pilot project, in which a briefing and debriefing on the negotiating boxes discussed in the general council is given before and after the meeting, and the european parliament's negotiating delegation has also been invited to the informal meetings of the general council. this will hopefully lead to a greater mutual understanding and a pathway focused on content rather than prejudice . but this pilot project, this working method, does not guarantee results. moreover, our analysis is concerned with more than just one magic number. we have worked intensively on the contents, on the challenges of the european union in the process of globalisation. we have looked at the commission's proposals and how we should deal with them, on the basis of the existing multiannual programmes. we are, of course, concerned with numbers, with appropriate numbers. it is a matter of substance, it is a matter of full flexibility for the annual budgetary procedures. it is about own resources, and they deserve that name. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the budget. it is also true that some member states talk about a magic number and at the same time demand that everything in the cohesion and agricultural policies should remain as it is, and we are not interested in the other. this is not a contribution to growth and employment in a difficult period of fiscal consolidation. if the member states are not prepared to give the european budget an adequate financial allocation, then they should also make clear which political priorities they have themselves decided will have to be taken off the table in the future. we cannot have successes like erasmus, with 2.5 million students, and then perhaps have to cut back because we want to keep other things in the cohesion or agricultural policies! it is not possible that we say 3% for research and development and then cut the commission's proposals for horizon 2020! we cannot say that europe must take on a new role in foreign and development policy and at the same time fail to meet its own development policy target of 0.7% of gnp. that's not how you win credibility. we need to make a greater effort to improve spending, always taking account of the budgetary consolidation of the member states. we have made many detailed proposals on how we can improve this in the administrative area and also in the management of the programmes, based on comprehensive analyses. but we also say that programmes such as connecting europe, lifelong learning should not be allowed to fall by the wayside. the debate on the synergies between national and european administrations, the question of what is to be regulated subsidiarily and where we have an infrastructure that we must dismantle, all of this is part of it. for example, if member states have 3164 embassies, consulates, etc. and employ some 95 000 people there, with an annual budget of eur 7.5 billion, this is 15 times more than the budget of the european external action service for 2012. these figures also belong to truth and honesty, ladies and gentlemen. if we say that we want to have amounts in principle - on the basis of our analysis, on the basis of the new challenge of the lisbon treaty - which go beyond the commission's proposals, then this is precisely the analysis on which we are basing ourselves. but the council must know that too. in the event of a disagreement, we will not fall off the grid. the 2013 ceilings will remain the ceilings, not the budget, until a solution is found. but our proposal, which strikes a balance between reasonable figures and the more difficult the figures, the more comprehensive flexibility we need, requires us to say clearly what jean-luc dehaene and anne jensen also said in our report: we need own resources, which deserve that name. the commission has made an interesting proposal in the final phase, including the use of the financial transaction tax, and has proposed a corresponding reduction in national contributions. this is also the case when a euro capacity or a euro facility is discussed: the euro is the rule rather than the exception. we can't outsource the rule case. we are also insisting on the unity of the budget so that we can have a strong european union in the future. if, for example, the financial transaction tax is declared to be of interest for the euro-facility, but is not wanted for the european budget, then i do not understand this logic. we maintain these core elements as an offer, are able to negotiate quickly and get a result as quickly as possible. but not at any price!
thank you very much, mr. bow. i would like you to tell your group how generously i have treated your speaking time.
thank you, mr. calf. i'll tell you what i told mr. böge.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the council and the member states often remind me of a waran. warans have split tongues. but this is perhaps a little too elaborate for the member states, so i will simply say that they have a split personality. they want to impose new tasks on the european union - and we support this in part with our priorities - but they do not want to enable the european union to have adequate staff to carry out these tasks. i am listening to colleagues: agricultural policy - mr de castro - cultural policy, research, environmental policy, social policy, regional development - all areas of enormous importance for all our member states, for the regions from which we come, and for the member states themselves. the only thing that the member states are not doing is to take account of who is supposed to be working on these policies. who will process the applications? who is to make sure that the projects are carried out well and that money flows? this must be sufficient staff, and this must be appropriately qualified, highly qualified staff. the best we can get! multicultural, from many countries of the european union, with more geographical balance, with the best language skills. and what does the european council want? what do the member states want? they're trying to save money. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore ask you, mr president-in-office, to ensure that the commission's proposal on the staff regulations is adopted and that we have a proper framework in which to do our work!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. first of all, i must say that i am shocked by the speech of the cypriot representative in the council, by the lack of european fire in it. i simply do not sense in you that you really want to work decisively for the future of europe with your proposals for the next multiannual financial framework. we are all faced with the situation in europe, and we know that the member states must consolidate their budgets. at the same time, we know together - and this is really our shared interest - that we need momentum for sustainable growth. we must fight climate change, we must shift our economy to low-carbon production, we must give our young people new opportunities and thus new hope, including in the european union project. but that cannot be done if the budget is reduced in the way that the net contributor countries in the council are now proposing. it is a false political signal, it does not breathe the spirit of europe. why is it so important to have own resources and, above all, to regulate the financial markets properly and to involve them in the crisis? because it's a sign of justice! because the banks must be held accountable, and because it cannot be only the taxpayers and the small people who pay for the crisis, but also because the banks must contribute, who speculate in the financial markets. that is why this financial transaction tax is economically and politically correct, it is a contribution to a social europe and it must also feed the european budget. now mr lewandowski has made this clever proposal with an incentive system. the member states are supposed to pay less of their gross domestic product when they participate in the financial transaction tax. one third is to go to the national states and two thirds to the european budget. this would be a win-win situation for the member states and for the common european interest. i hope the council will take further action in this respect. the final point: the political discussions are the inspiration for this proposal for a euro-zone budget. i believe that there are indeed good reasons for additional incentive models, including those from the european budget. but it is the indivisibility of the european budget that is at stake. we will not allow our rights of democratic control over the budget to be taken away, as we have done in the past. whatever some heads of state and government are thinking: you can be sure that we will be confident in defending our rights as a parliament and will fight for a truly democratic europe, including in the budgetary field.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank the two rapporteurs. i think that the report as a whole is a good positioning of this parliament in this heated debate between parliament and the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the countries which are dealing with austerity policies which are under pressure, there have been growth slumps, there have been tax revenue slumps, unemployment has risen and poverty has risen. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions is a good one. we cannot and will not therefore agree to any reduction in the mff. i would like to draw attention to a historical example. the country from which i come, the federal republic, has been in a similar deep crisis since the second world war. there was the london debt agreement in 1953. the commission has not only cut the debt, but has also given a clear and tangible stimulus to growth, especially through the marshall plan. this has helped germany to get out of the post-war debt crisis and to develop economically as it did. we therefore believe that we cannot cut back, but that we must expand the budget, we must develop it further, in order to overcome the crisis through growth. i would like to expressly support what helga trüpel has said and presented in detail on the subject of own resources and the financial transaction tax. we also support this position and would like parliament to be more active in this area, as regards its own resources and the implementation of the financial transaction tax - this is an important issue for this parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one. but we also have to re-engineer the other side of the coin, the revenue side. that's not new. for almost 20 years, the european parliament has been calling for a more transparent, fairer and simpler system of own resources. now, for the first time, we can make our demands known. we have already called in june last year, with the sure report, for a system of own resources which would abolish all rebates and make the revenue of the european budget completely independent of the transfers from the member states. the commission has at least partially complied with these requests. it has proposed a reform of vat own resources and the introduction of a financial transaction tax. we support this commission proposal, even if it means only a 40% reform. at least it's a step in the right direction. the european union has received the nobel peace prize as a thank you and as an incentive. peace could also be achieved if the perpetual clearing of accounts between the so-called net payers and the net recipients were finally put to rest by a reform of the revenue system, if the european added value of the european budget were finally made clear, and if the perpetual narrow-minded national clearing of accounts were eliminated.
member of the commission. − madam president, colleagues, thank you for your comments. there is no multiannual financial perspective without the consent of european parliament – that is clear. therefore your voice and your vote are important and should be helpful in the very exceptional circumstances in which europe finds itself today. it is also a sign of good institutional cooperation, with each institution having an important role to play – including the national parliaments – with regard to the issue of own resources and taxation: no taxation without representation. that is my answer to mr hartong, who usually makes critical comments and leaves the room instead of listening to the answer. this is a part of this rational construction i admired for so many years from behind the iron curtain. it is absolutely right to place the multiannual framework in the context of the realistic growth, jobs and competitiveness agenda for europe. it makes a difference whether this is just a political announcement or an agenda equipped with money. the european budget is about the multiannual predictability of investment in europe with a shortage of investment money in the national budgets. the european parliament has a clear role to play when it comes to the proper level of budgets. our technical update for cohesion was not very fortunate, given the recent figures, but we cannot make the other basis for the ‘berlin methodology’ in relation to cohesion. the recent figures, as updated, which are not fortunate for cohesion, are the only ones on which we can base our calculations with safeguards for countries like hungary, which have experienced some problems in recent years. regarding own resources, your important message is on the unity of the budget. we can understand unity as also not being a fan of the second budget for the european union, but this is a unity of a complementary nature of revenues and expenditure. the proposal on the table, supported by the european parliament, is really a fair, transparent and simple response to everybody who wants a simple, transparent and a fair system of own resources. if we manage to achieve real reform where revenue is concerned, we deserve another nobel prize. the same goes for simplification, which has been requested in the soon-to-be 28 member states. finally, the european parliament has an important role to play at the level of expenditure. this is a modest proposal: comparisons with national budgets are not fair. no single member state has in the past had to accommodate such a major enlargement in terms of geography. we are to be 28, not 27, in the next financial perspective, and we are to have many more powers and areas of responsibility at european level. therefore i cannot resist several comparisons. yes, our annual budgets are less than the annual budgetary deficits of some member states. i cannot resist pointing out that the uk’s contribution to the european budget is on a par with that country’s contribution to its fire service, and less than it contributes to its prison service. it is 14 times less than the servicing of the uk debt. that is not the problem of the european union.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for this debate. i fully understand that some of you – and of course this is just a euphemism – do not support an approach which would reduce the overall size of the mff. i very much appreciate, however, your frankness on this issue. you are well aware that there is also a divide between member states on this issue. i hope you appreciate that there are valid and strong arguments on both sides and different approaches regarding the best way to achieve our targets. i would like to reassure you that we are working hard on the revenue side and will soon come forward with more details regarding our approach. some very important institutional issues with regard to the eu budget in the aftermath of last week’s european council were raised by the rapporteur, mr lamassoure, and other distinguished speakers. i will refrain, if you will allow, from commenting on them, especially since later this morning we will have the opportunity to discuss them directly with the president of the european council, herman van rompuy. now i will comment briefly on what ms jensen had to say. with all due respect, i do not think that in our paper we either expressed support for the ‘juste retour’ or referred to direct payments as a holy cow. we just raised issues and questions for consideration. but maybe i did not fully grasp the gist of your point. on ftt, we all know that it has proved impossible to fly at the level of 27. now we are advancing with enhanced cooperation, and the presidency is fully committed to moving this forward. but we need to be aware that this enhanced cooperation is not about an own resource but rather a national resource. it is not ftt as an own resource. what we are trying to do in the current exercise on the mff is to find a way to establish a link between the revenue accrued in member states participating in enhanced cooperation with own resources with a corresponding reduction to their gni contribution. but we need to be fully aware that there are both legal and political obstacles in some member states which otherwise would like to participate in the ftt-enhanced cooperation. i would also like to emphasise – and reassure those members who spoke on this issue – that a focus on less-developed regions is one of the few non-controversial issues in this debate. when we say that the level of the mff will unavoidably have to be revised downwards and that all headings and sub-headings will have to be affected, we are not expressing a wish. we are trying, as honest brokers, to provide radiography – an accurate presentation of the current situation. the same applies to questions regarding staff, raised in particular by ms roth-behrendt. there again we need to get the right balance. let me once again insist on the fact that the council has not yet come to a decision on the mff and that discussions are continuing in a pragmatic way and with the full commitment of all – i stress of all – member states towards reaching a timely compromise. of course we all work on the basis that nothing is agreed until everything is agreed. we will study very carefully and give full consideration to your interim reports, both on mff and on own resources based on value added tax. we have also listened very carefully to the views expressed here this morning and i can assure you that i will bring them to the attention of colleagues within the council. osmosis between the work of institutions is a key word for the cyprus presidency.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank you for your contributions to this debate, which have largely supported the positions of our interim report, and i would ask you to do the same in the vote today. i would like to thank once again all those who have contributed to this text and i would also like to say that this kind of cooperation with mr kalfin, with my colleagues in the negotiating team and with the contact group is, for me personally, one of the best positive experiences i have ever had as rapporteur in this house. we should stick it out till the end, then we'll have a chance to do something together. if the cypriot presidency, the president of the european council, now presents a new negotiating box, as andreas mavroyiannis has said, a range of figures, we will enter a new stage in the negotiating process. i would therefore like to say explicitly that, following the vote on this interim report, we are ready to negotiate from today until 22 november on all the issues of the multiannual financial framework, on all the details of the interinstitutional agreement, wherever it is necessary to strive for an acceptable compromise to find solutions. it is up to the presidency to make use of this offer so that it can be incorporated into the conclusions and considerations of the european council of 22 and 23 november. the council's decision to withdraw the proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a step in the right direction. first of all, parliament must give its consent by a majority of its members in order for the council to be able to act unanimously, and this institution should never forget that in this procedure!
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12.30 today. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council of 18 and 19 october 2012.
president of the european council. − mr president, after a brief, but heartfelt, welcome of the award of the nobel peace prize to the european union, which was felt by all to be a tribute to past work and an invitation to redouble our efforts for the future, the focus of last week’s european council was on the economic issues, namely the implementation of the compact on growth and jobs approved last june and the discussion on the interim report on deepening economic and monetary union (emu). we also spent time on some foreign policy questions and touched on a matter which i know is of concern here, the appointment to the vacant seat on the board of the european central bank, which was raised both by me and by your president in his speech at the beginning of the meeting. the union’s commitment to promoting the equality of women and men is an objective laid down in the treaty. yesterday’s vote by the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the appointment is an understandable expression of concern that a great deal remains to be achieved, notably regarding the european central bank. but i note also the committee’s recognition that the candidate’s professional competences are in no way in dispute. for my part, at last week’s european council, i made a strong appeal to all heads of state or government to identify and propose female candidates for vacant posts at european level, in particular in the economic and financial sectors, where the under-representation of women is blatant. i underlined that we need to be active in encouraging this process. i hope that, with such renewed commitment to gender balance, parliament will base its final decision on the current candidate for the ecb executive board on the sole criteria of professional qualification and experience. it is urgent to fill that vacancy. now let me move on to the economic questions which were at the core of our discussions. first, growth and jobs. we are still suffering from a lack of growth – 25 million people are unemployed in the union, many of whom are young people. overall growth projections for next year are at best modest. i am painfully aware of the toll this is taking on our societies. in several countries, the adjustment is more severe and lengthy than many had expected. reining in budgetary deficits and restoring competitiveness would have been necessary even without the crisis in the eurozone. it is therefore all the more necessary to share the burden of this adjustment fairly and to have policies especially targeted at reducing unemployment. here, the eu instruments can and should assist. creating jobs and boosting socially-inclusive growth remains our utmost priority and our ultimate goal. the commitments made under the compact for growth and jobs cannot wait: they must be followed by decisive action and translated into concrete results. this is particularly urgent for the implementation of the eur 120 billion package we agreed in june, for progress on the single market issues and on our eu-2020 goals. it is also urgent for measures supporting social inclusion, promoting research and development, developing the competitiveness of our industries, and harnessing the potential of international trade. in the meanwhile, we will discuss in november the multiannual financial framework at the european council. we need a growth-oriented eu budget. although it represents only 1 % of european gdp, it can, as an investment budget, have a huge impact on growth. of course, restoring confidence in the eurozone is a key part of bringing back internal demand and growth. on this, we can now witness the first results of our cumulative actions. let me give a few examples. the so-called spreads are decreasing significantly in almost all eurozone countries. public deficits are now lower in most countries. competitiveness and export performances are stronger in all countries. the upcoming common bank supervisor is a major breakthrough and we launched two weeks ago the european stability mechanism so that our ‘firewall’ now amounts to eur 700 billion. in the specific case of greece, significant progress has been made. the eurozone heads of state and government issued a statement welcoming the determination of the greek government to deliver on its commitments and also commending the remarkable efforts of the greek people. the eurogroup will examine this progress in light of the forthcoming troika report and take any necessary decisions. our second major debate was on the interim report which i drew up in collaboration with the presidents of the commission, the eurogroup and the european central bank – a group of four presidents who also met with your president, martin schulz. my office also consulted member states and the european parliament’s delegation, whose contribution was significant. i also personally met some of your rapporteurs, coordinators and committee chairs. this was an interim report seeking to clarify concepts and test the level of support for various ideas that have arisen, with the aim of reaching conclusions in december. it highlighted points of convergence and outlined areas that would require further work. the european council gave a mandate to continue this work and propose a specific and time-bound roadmap to be presented at its december meeting so that it can move ahead on all the essential building blocks on which genuine emu should be based. our immediate priority was progress on financial integration. in june, we agreed to break the vicious circle between banks and sovereigns. the urgent element now is setting up a single supervisory mechanism (ssm) to prevent banking risks and cross-border contagion from emerging. that is why the european council called for swift progress, with the objective of agreeing on the legislative framework by 1 january 2013. once this is agreed, the ssm could become effectively operational during 2013. this places a huge responsibility on all of us to meet this ambitious timeline. we cannot afford to risk losing momentum. when establishing a supervisor, several aspects need to be taken into consideration. first, there must be a clear separation between the monetary responsibilities of the ecb and its supervisory functions. the ecb should be able to carry out supervision directly in a differentiated manner, meaning using national authorities in supervisory tasks as much as possible. the ssm will be designed and implemented with the integrity of the single market for financial services in mind. finally, the mechanism should be inclusive and transparent: all member states are free and invited to join. this openness should be reflected in the governance structure, with appropriate rights and obligations for all. the ssm is a first, essential step towards a complete, integrated framework for the financial sector. other steps also need to be taken quickly, starting with harmonising national resolution and deposit guarantee schemes, following which the commission will propose a single resolution mechanism. as agreed in june, direct recapitalisation by the european stability mechanism will be possible once an effective ssm has been established. we asked the eurogroup to draw up the exact operational criteria. for a stable economic and monetary union, we also need stronger integrated frameworks for budgetary matters and economic policies. on both these fronts we have already done a lot. let me put it this way: if we fully use all our tools – the six-pack, the forthcoming two-pack, the european semester with its country specific recommendations, the new macroeconomic imbalance procedure and the treaty on stability, coordination and governance – then we will have already taken a major step towards fiscal and economic union. yet to secure the eurozone’s long-term stability, we also need to be able to better deal with economic shocks and spur economic convergence. here, some new avenues in my report attracted attention. i received a mandate, together with my colleagues, to explore them further between now and december. one of these is that member states could enter into individual arrangements of a contractual nature with the eu institutions on the reforms they commit to make, in response to the country specific recommendations of the council, to promote growth and jobs. another is the possibility of an appropriate fiscal capacity for the euro area. this new idea requires further exploration and it was agreed that this is unrelated – i emphasise ‘unrelated’ – to the preparation of the next multiannual financial framework. it will be crucial for the new emu to be fully legitimate and accountable. as a general principle, we all agree that democratic control should occur at the level where decisions are taken. it is also important to build this deeper economic and monetary union on the eu’s institutional and legal frameworks, and to make sure that it remains open and transparent towards member states outside the eurozone. as in all our regular european councils, i wanted to devote some time to strategic discussions on our external relations and our foreign policy. we focused on two main issues. first, our relations with china – taking a step back and looking at the long term. i debriefed the european council on the september summit with china, a very positive one. as you know, this key partner is undergoing a ‘once in a decade’ leadership change. we exchanged views on how to engage constructively with the new leadership. we must pass on the same messages to beijing, both the easy and the difficult ones, in our contacts at all levels. china presented a package of proposals for future cooperation between the eu and china. we will respond in the same spirit with our own proposals. we will come back to this issue to prepare the next summit, which should take place in china in autumn 2013. second, we addressed crisis areas in the world: syria, iran and mali. this was indeed the first time that we had discussed developments in mali at european council level. the situation has a security, humanitarian and regional impact on the sahel. it could also become a threat to our own societies and to our own security. the union is contributing to the international efforts led by the united nations to stabilise the situation. we decided to accelerate our own planning for a possible european military crisis management operation and support for the international military force, in accordance with the recent un security council resolution 2071. to conclude, this was a positive summit. it is good for europe that we will have a single supervisory mechanism up and running in the course of 2013. between now and december we will work on further progress to reinforce our economic and monetary union. the biggest contribution to growth in the short term is restoring confidence in the eurozone.
president of the commission. − mr president, last week’s european council was the first in a series of three summit meetings this autumn. our objective in these meetings is to reach decisions which will have a significant impact both on short-term stability and our longer-term objectives. first and foremost, we must deliver on the compact on growth and jobs agreed in june. the reality is that the crisis is still with us: too many of our member states are facing recession; unemployment remains worryingly high (with the potential to further undermine social cohesion), and i am painfully aware of the difficult situation in which many european citizens find themselves. implementing the growth compact is, therefore, much more than a demonstration of our political will; it is a question of fairness and equity. in some of our member states, citizens are making major sacrifices because of the situation resulting from excessive debts in the public sector and irresponsible financial behaviour in the private sector. this is why we need to provide citizens with hope, and a realistic prospect that growth and jobs will return and that the most vulnerable in society will not suffer. the commission has delivered a great number of proposals and inputs to underpin the growth compact. however, the reality is that this growth compact, including an important investment package worth eur 120 billion, has not yet been fully implemented. some progress has been made, but frankly it is not enough. i presented to the heads of state and government a detailed report describing what is on the table, where the blockages exist, and what the next steps are. it is high time that proposals on negotiation tables became reality. let me give some examples. agreement is within reach on the proposals on venture capital, accounting and alternative dispute resolution in the next two months. but work on several other proposals that are crucial for growth and fairness in the single market needs to be accelerated. public procurement reform; a tax on savings, including mandates for agreements with third countries; professional qualifications; e-signatures: we need to give a new political push in all these areas. last week i urged the member states’ governments to do their utmost to bring the compact on growth and jobs to life. likewise, i count on this house to assume its responsibility and play its part in finalising legislation on its elements. let us demonstrate to our citizens that europe carries a message for growth and jobs. when talking about growth, it is clear that the financial sector must also make a fair contribution to recovery. i welcome in particular the recent progress on a european financial transaction tax. following the requests we have now received from 10 member states, this very afternoon the commission will make a proposal for a council decision authorising enhanced cooperation. this will be the first step in the process. we will also present an action plan on tax fraud and tax evasion – including tax havens – before the end of the year. i also want to confirm to you that, following the adoption of the employment package, the commission will introduce a youth guarantee scheme before the end of the year. this will aim to ensure that young people are presented with either the offer of a job, continued education, an apprenticeship or a traineeship within four months of being unemployed or leaving formal education. this will be supported by the european social fund. we will also introduce a quality framework for traineeships to help young people in their transition from education to work. we are taking these measures to prevent a ‘lost generation’ in europe. it is not just the compact on growth and jobs where we have to turn political will into reality. it is essential that by the end of this year there is agreement on the single supervisory mechanism for banks. this is also a pre-condition for the direct recapitalisation of banks under the european stability mechanism. by reaching agreement on this, the european union has a huge opportunity to restore confidence, demonstrate its capacity to take difficult decisions in times of crisis and send a message of stability. let us not fail to seize this moment. and let us also be clear about one thing: reaching agreement on these issues is a fundamental precondition if we want to be credible in our further deepening of economic and monetary union. regarding the single supervisory mechanism for banks, without prejudice to the ongoing legislative process, the european council confirmed many of the key principles on which the commission proposals were grounded. this includes being as open as is legally possible to all member states who want to participate. as we have stated time and time again, we do not need new walls in europe between the euro-area and non-euro area members. secondly, we need proper accountability at the level at which decisions are taken, which for the commission clearly means to this parliament, and maintaining the level playing field and the integrity of the single market. this also includes tasking the ecb with responsibility for prudential supervision and the power to intervene, if needed, with any bank in the euro area, as well as a clear separation of this supervisory function and monetary policy. we will continue to work closely with the european parliament on all these matters. one important element is the political commitment of the heads of state and government that agreement should be reached by the end of this year. i hope that the governments will now respect the commitment they have taken at the highest level. let us not forget why we are acting here: we are advancing in our response to the crisis. we need to definitively break the negative link between bank debt and sovereign debt – and this is urgent. that is why the commission put its proposals on the table within weeks of the june european council. delivering the single supervisory mechanism will give a very important signal to our citizens, but also to our international partners and to investors in general. the european council also spelled out the need for rapid adoption of the provisions relating to the harmonisation of national resolution and deposit guarantee frameworks based on the commission’s legislative proposals on bank recovery and resolution and on national deposit guarantee schemes. it also called for a rapid conclusion of the single rule book, including agreement on the proposals on bank capital requirements. this house has a decisive role to play in all these matters, and the commission will work closely with you in the coming weeks to move ahead quickly. before i look at the other, longer-term elements of deepening emu, let me start by underlining how crucial it is to finalise the legislation known as the ‘two-pack’. the prior coordination of national budgets is one important pillar of our crisis response, and it is in the interest of the european parliament, i would assume, that we incorporate as many elements from the fiscal treaty into the community method as is legally possible. this is what we are doing with the two-pack. now that the european union institutions and member states have embarked on a reflection process which will cover all aspects of a deeper emu (including issues of solidarity), i am hopeful that we can agree that the two-pack goes ahead and not deal with other issues covered by the further deepening of the emu. as far as these other aspects of emu-deepening are concerned, the summit was also an occasion for the heads of state and government to look in more depth at the issues on the basis of the interim report prepared by the president of the european council, myself, and the presidents of the european central bank and the eurogroup. i would also like to underline the very useful contributions that the european parliament and president schulz have made to this report. coming to the next steps, i had already informed this house last month that we will deliver a blueprint for emu in time before the december european council. this blueprint will set out the commission’s own thinking on all the building blocks of a deeper, genuine emu. allow me a specific word about the issue of the fiscal capacity of an economic and monetary union. as i said in the state of the union address before this house, to deliver lasting results, we need to develop a fully-equipped community economic governance, together with a genuine, credible community fiscal capacity. this would complement our efforts for a stronger and more binding framework for the implementation of key economic policies, in particular in the euro area, as one important means of preventing imbalances. while much has been done here, for instance through the six-pack and the country-specific recommendations, further steps are crucial to combine specific conditions with specific incentives and to really make economic and monetary union sustainable. one interesting idea in this context is that of contractual arrangements between the member states and the commission. such arrangements could underpin the commitments taken under the country-specific recommendations with specific support for their realisation. we must, however, be clear that this has nothing to do with the decisions on the next multiannual financial framework, which we will, hopefully, be able to take in the coming weeks. i want to thank this house for its important contributions and the cooperation with it on all these matters. it is very important to have the views and the involvement of the european parliament at every stage in this process. we are designing a new system whereby more decisions will be taken at european level. we therefore need stronger accountability. fixing accountability at the level where the decisions are taken will be one of the fundamental principles which will guide our discussions on economic and monetary union. at the same time, we need to make sure that more democracy means more transparency and not more complexity. we already have a very complicated system of decision-making in europe. a proliferation of institutions, mechanisms and procedures would make europe more opaque and less readable and would distance us from our citizens precisely at a time when we need to draw closer together. there are also a few more key principles for these reforms. first, we need to build on the existing institutional and legal framework based on the community treaties. we must support the deepening of integration in the euro area as the basis for strengthening our currency, the euro. we must ensure convergence between the existing and future euro area members. and we must respect the integrity of policies conducted at the level of the current 27 (very soon 28) member states of the european union, particularly the integrity of the single market. our tasks are mapped out. let us not forget that, beyond the growth compact, the two-pack and banking supervision, we have other tasks and responsibilities this autumn. i am speaking in particular about the mff. i expect those governments which are always talking about the need for investment to promote growth and jobs to contribute their support for the instrument for investment at european level. once again this will be a critical test of our commitment to these policies. during the summit we also had an opportunity to send a very important message regarding greece at the level of euro area heads of state and government. i welcome the conclusion of that meeting, when we said: ‘we expect greece to continue budgetary and structural policy reforms and encourage its efforts to ensure swift implementation of the programme. this is necessary in order to bring about a more competitive private sector, private investment and an effective public sector. these conditions will allow greece to achieve renewed growth and will ensure its future in the euro area’. it is very important that the heads of state and government have expressed this willingness and this commitment and their hope about keeping greece in the euro area. finally, the european council discussed the external dimension of our actions, with a focus on our strategic partners, including china, and the need for a proactive agenda for trade. it is crucially important that europe defend its interests in this globalising world. but openness is a vital element in facing the challenges of growth, and we must not miss out on the opportunities for further trade liberalisation. it is significant that, at a time when many of our citizens have doubts about the ability of europe to meet the challenges we face, the international community, through the nobel peace prize, has sent us a clear message: the world needs a stronger european union. it is indeed an honour to have this recognition for the project for integration and unity of this continent which has, over 60 years, brought us so much. but it is also a responsibility and a challenge for us to show the ‘courage de chaque jour’ – the everyday, mundane, courage – to do the right thing and take the decisions we need to take. by advancing the deepening of economic and monetary union and progressing towards a political union, let us make sure, together, that the nobel peace prize in 2012 will not be awarded to an idea of the past but to a project of the future. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, on the subject of women in the european union: i would like to congratulate mrs reding on her achievements. i think she's right about the quota proposal. i think that every woman who has already achieved power and influence in the european union today should be aware that this is due, of course, to qualifications and skills, but also to the fact that other women have implemented instruments such as the quota. this knowledge should also guide all those who have to make decisions, as my colleagues in the commission with mrs reding do. i would like to ask you, mr president of the commission, not to undermine a positive initiative which can make the role of the european commission shine, but to support mrs reding. in the case of mersch, it is a pity that mr mersch seems to be the one who is undermining mrs reding's strategy. we will not be supporting this in any way as the green group, mr van rompuy. perhaps it is enough for you that the future of women in the european central bank starts after 2018. we don't need this information and this prospect! we want a woman at the center of the central bank's power today, and we're not gonna take any comfort from you. ladies and gentlemen, the nobel peace prize has so far been on the fringes of this debate. i wondered if i was wrong. when i heard about this decision from the far north of europe, i was really deeply moved and moved. i, as a european politician, almost personally felt that this was an unexpected declaration of love for this great common european project, and i naturally looked at the summit with quite different expectations. teflon coating, you might think. what happened? where was that moment of containment? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because for me, the focus of this award ceremony is to reflect on what was possible together and therefore what will be possible together. mr van rompuy, we have now had more time to discuss the banking union. we can afford to do that because the european central bank has bought time under mr draghi, as it has done under mr trichet. we have found that the crisis has gone from a phase of acute rashes to a chronic phase. but don't take too much time, and don't get too carried away, like you did with your speech today. i believe that by the end of december not only must the supervision of the banking union have a clear outline or a legal form, but also the two other pillars that are not mentioned in the first row, namely the safeguarding of deposits and the possibility of winding up banks in the european union, and then also in a trust-building, democratically controlled process. so there's a lot to do until the end of december. i would like to take up what mr swoboda said: you said earlier, mr van rompuy, that everything will get better. i have figures from the imf and the world bank that just show once again that aggressive austerity policies alone do nothing better, not even make the national budgets better. we have higher deficits in the crisis countries, and we have a downturn not just in the crisis countries but in europe as a whole. we have higher unemployment, especially among young people. i am aware of this and i find the imf's further publication that successful fiscal consolidation can only be achieved if there is an economic recovery. it is difficult to imagine, and this shows the shortcomings of the crisis policy so far. the recovery of the economy can only be achieved by better growth policies. i'm curious to see what's next. i almost regarded mr tajani and mr oettinger's statements as a threat. europe 2020 - which, by the way, is obviously completely out of date - a sustainable economic recovery with industrial policy concepts, as oettinger and tajani have proposed, i cannot imagine. finally, president hollande or chancellor merkel after the summit, the question was asked everywhere who had won. if you want to see more evidence that these two have not lived up to the award ceremony and what the nobel committee promised them, then this is the question. the political union, the deepened european union, must be drawn from these two. mrs merkel must go public in germany long before the election and say why solidarity alone makes things worse. and mr hollande must stand before an audience in france and say why france too must transfer sovereignty to brussels.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would first like to thank rebecca harms and also econ for the decision taken last night, for example, to recommend that mr mersch not be elected this week. i think that's right! and i think that is a signal which, i hope, will eventually find the support of the majority of the european parliament, because it is in fact the completely wrong signal to tell us that this europe should continue to be led by men alone, in order to finally signal that everything that has been repeatedly raised in the various areas of the european union, which is necessary to ensure social and regional cohesion in general, is represented here only by men. i say it is misrepresented, at least by the majority. i do not want to include everyone here without exception. the results of the last summit are also clear. there was talk that at the end, two winners would stand in front of the microphones and cameras and repeat a ritual, repeat the declaration: no one has lost. yes, humans have lost! people within the european union have lost because time is being played again, because it is not being considered again that corrections in european policy are urgently needed. i shall come to the example of the employment pact. it is not serious that you have said in your recommendations or in the council's decision that the adjustment of the structural funds must be the final issue when it comes to financing the growth and employment pact. this means that a 25% share is being allocated to the esf. and by doing so, you are calling into question the continuation of the european platform against poverty and social exclusion, the need to fight to eradicate the poverty of 120 million people in this europe. and then you talk about the european union deserving of the nobel peace prize. this can't be happening! what signals should the summit have sent? first, the realization that austerity policies do not automatically lead to more growth. and what the international monetary fund can do, the european union should have done long ago, which is to admit that these policies have led to hundreds of thousands of people being pushed further into poverty and social exclusion. we do not need an undemocratic fiscal pact that would abolish the rights of national parliaments and, in particular, of the european parliament. we need a solidarity pact, a pact of the 99% of the people, to replace the austerity pact of the 1% of the people. we need sustainable growth, which can only be achieved through good work, fair redistribution and adequate contributions from the crisis-makers. look at greece again: the next tranche is eur 600 million, which is intended to be used only for debt repayment in the public budget. this means that almost 30 billion euros are reserved for the banks alone. similarly, in portugal, only 8 billion of the 78 billion euros are actually for the public budget. that is not the balance you are talking about and which is practiced here. that has to change! we demand that! the timetable the road map for the banking union is really only a very small moment. you must admit that this is all about the dismantling of the nationally organised banks! they do not speak of the ecb's role as lender of last resort, or of the complementary roles which european investment banks can play in this respect. correct that approach! if you turn it around, we might be able to talk about the nobel prize again!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. summit to summit: europe is still in recession. there is a lack of growth incentives, a lack of employment. mr barroso, mr van rompuy, you will have to take new initiatives, even during your term of office, otherwise europe will not emerge from the crisis. even the most intensive summit business will not change that. europe's youth is unemployed. mr barroso, you have the instruments. mr andor and the commission could take instruments into their hands. why do we not reduce, within the limits of what we have, within the limits of the commitments of the semester, binding on the member states, from now on and immediately, the number of young people who are unemployed, each year by a certain percentage, which the commission proposes? why can we make everything possible binding but not the fight against youth unemployment? we in the european parliament are waiting for your initiative. we need more powers at european level in economic policy, and that is absolutely right. the question is, who's in charge here? every time the german finance minister, schäuble, comes to us and says that he would like to have a strong finance commissioner, we say: 'very well, mr rehn can do that.' mr rehn, who may be listening to us in the european parliament. mr. deer, this is a wonderful job if you'd be given more powers. but then we make a clear deal: you negotiate your mandate with the european parliament. then life is a whole new one. you don't have to call all the capitals and ask them what they want. they do not have to negotiate bilateral agreements with people who have no idea what is going on in a particular case. no, you're gonna get the warrant with this house. europe has all the instruments, europe has all the techniques. we should strengthen the european union as it is. we do not need another europe, we do not need farmhouses. we need to strengthen these institutions and strengthen the european parliament. it's the only way we're gonna get out of this crisis.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. perhaps you could tell him, mr barroso, that we are kind enough to forward mr bullmann's opinion to him. obviously, he's not interested in that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have big problems in europe. we agreed at the outset that we must first of all be more frugal in our use of money in all the member states, that we must urgently reform the structures and that we must stimulate growth. we did. the truth is that it's slow, but it's moving. i don't understand the whole "we're gonna have to reinvent the world" thing. the way is right. mr van rompuy, i am very grateful to you for your strong support for a systematic, continuous approach to work. not a new story every week, not a new instrument every week, not hoping for some miracle every week, but systematic work - that's the only way to move forward. the results are showing, slowly but surely. that's why thoroughness and reliability take precedence over speed and haste. that is why implementation and systematic monitoring are better than just throwing new ideas on the market. i'm very happy with the way we're working now. and i say to the bank supervisors: it is not a question of the date on which this banking supervision is introduced, as the two presidents have proposed. it depends on whether it works. we ourselves made some great decisions in connection with the eba a long time ago and wanted more. maybe we can do this a little more systematically and differently. it's whether and how they work, not when they work. so thank you for this systematic course, which is a little more calm and reliable. i think that's right, because in the end, it's not who said the best things that's going to be judged, it's who did the best things. (applause from the centre)
now, we're getting to the catch-the-eye procedure, but i have a big favor to ask. we are not finished with this debate, we now have five minutes for the catch-the-eye procedure. i have a long list of colleagues who have already given their catch-the-eye messages over an hour ago, which is also an expression of great spontaneity. i would suggest that you take your seats, because we are also going to hear the replies from mr van rompuy and mr barroso. and i want to say frankly to you, and to the audience in the gallery, that it is not acceptable that neither those who speak here nor those who are addressed have the chance to hear anything, because everyone here is doing some private business on the corridors of this room. i therefore ask you to take your seats or i shall not continue the debate. i would also be grateful if the stewards in the chamber could go to the various discussion groups that are forming in the chamber and perhaps tell them to sit down. because i am not fluent in all the languages, otherwise i would say this in spanish, for example, because part of the pp delegation is holding a delegation meeting in the hall. why don't you sit down, fellas? the green group too, mr albrecht, you may take your seat, there is no charge for this. catch the eye
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. (the president gave instructions on the procedure for the photo session.) the commission
the next item is the voting round. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, the european parliament has just adopted amendments to the council’s position on the draft budget for 2013. consequently, in my capacity as president of the council, i agree that the president of the european parliament should convene the conciliation committee as required in article 314(4)(c) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are voting on a relatively large number of amendments from a single group, which usually attaches great importance to the strict observance of the rules of procedure. we have a system of voting by name only for the most important and most important votes. it would therefore be useful if the services could perhaps contact the group to see whether any vote by name is really necessary here. i think it's completely unnecessary what the efd is putting on us here. (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. the commission is not i am not going to go into detail. i 'll make this as short as possible . the consolidated text will be voted on today in a single vote. they're voting to have us attach joint statements. but they also agree that we should attach a unilateral declaration from parliament, which i must read out: the eur 85,9 million reimbursed by belgium to the european parliament at the beginning of 2010 and earmarked for real estate projects are to be considered as external assigned revenue in accordance with article 18 of the financial regulation. that's the wording. i would also like to thank all those who have been involved in this difficult exercise of negotiating this regulation.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i think he has found a good compromise, and i think the 2013 budget is in the public interest. it is the last year of the seven-year financial framework. that is why the member states are not always fair to the european union. in the last year, a relatively large number of projects have been submitted and are still awaiting final financing. the same member states that have received money back in previous years are paying close attention to financial discipline in 2013. we should be just and touchingly fair to each other. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in that sense, i want to see fairness.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask the member states once again to treat each other fairly, because it simply cannot be that the member states are always wearing two jackets. the one jacket, they wear it in brussels. we are constantly finding that the european union, the commission, needs to do more, that we need to set up new programmes for business and innovation, that is, we need more money. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would therefore like to ask that we treat each other fairly here, that we take account of the difficult situation in the member states, but also that we ensure that the programmes which the european union needs for the member states to restart their economic development can continue to have an impact.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this agreement must indeed be examined very carefully because it has very strong political implications. in israel, there is a debate whether this is a deal that will ultimately support israel or whether it will be a red card. i don't think this discussion is going anywhere. we are not here to take a position on the state of israel and its people, but only on the present israeli government. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the european union is not prepared to accept the palestinian people as the victims of the israeli occupation, and it is not prepared to accept the palestinian people as the victims of the israeli occupation. that is why we cannot simply conclude an agreement with this government. secondly, there are still many uncertainties. my predecessor said there was a consensus here. no, there is no consensus! the vote in committee was 13 to 15. i think we should clarify the question of the origin of generic medicines in the future and make sure that they do not come from the occupied territories and do not come from the illegal settlements. we must also clarify how the commission will exercise its right to extend this agreement to other products in the future. we need more time to discuss this in depth, and i therefore expressly support véronique de keyser's request that we refer the matter back to committee for further deliberation. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question for the commissioner: the commission is not the human rights situation has been discussed by several speakers, mr lange. this caa was submitted to parliament two years ago together with an agricultural agreement with the palestinian territories. the first agreement is here today, the second went through without any problems. i ask you: what difference does it make from our point of view whether the israelis make one or the other mistake? what about the palestinians? do you think it's consistent with our human rights standards that hamas executes people, tortures people in doubt? why did we get the first agreement through without any problems a year and a half ago, and why are you now making all sorts of arguments that, strangely enough, were not valid a year and a half ago? was that a revelation, or did i misunderstand something here?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. our values are of course universal, so we make no difference at all. why you behaved the way you did two years ago, i can't say. we are quite clear that we do not want to draw arguments out of the box, but rather to ensure that the agreement, which is also a model for future agreements, is not unsound. and that is why we need more time for consultation, mr president.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. two years ago two agreements came to parliament at the same time: this agreement we are discussing today and the agricultural agreement with the palestinian territories. this israel agreement has raised a number of problems. we have been discussing the exclusion of products from the disputed areas. the commission has dealt very well with this issue. we had the article 3 we wanted to revise. the council has responded to all the criticisms at the request of our rapporteur. now all of a sudden the same subject is being raised again, which i do not understand. the council is now being asked to make a statement, and i expressly agree with it. but what kind of political style is this, that we as a parliament are briefly reflecting on a text, that we are negotiating texts in the political groups and that we do not even once enter into an exchange of views with the council, which is supposed to make this declaration? that is a political style we do not share! that is why we shall vote against this amendment. the second point is that, under rule 81 of our rules of procedure, we consider it doubtful whether this amendment is even admissible. i would be very grateful to the president if you could look at this again. what bothers me - and this has been made clear here on several occasions - is that we, as the european union, are one of the few recognized mediators in this dispute. then the point is that we do not favor or disadvantage either side. if we want to remain a recognized mediator, we have to be fair to both sides. one and a half years ago we passed the agreement with the palestinian territories despite hamas, despite the use of the death penalty in everything. and this agreement suddenly has completely different standards. i just wish we could all stick to the principles here. but i have the impression that the only principle that some of my colleagues have here is that they have no principle, but that they always do things just as they please. that is not a credible policy. i therefore ask you to reconsider your position here and to vote in favour of this agreement tonight, just as you did with the agreement on the palestinian territories, because it is the same issue.
mr president, it is interesting that we are having this vote right after the israeli foreign minister insulted our high representative baroness ashton and the eu on saturday, saying that the eu should focus on its own problems before making suggestions on how to resolve the crisis and the terrible situation with palestine. this is clearly mocking the fact that the eu has taken a stance on this issue, and its involvement in the problem. commissioner, i think you have been trying to work on the question of the settlement products, but this is not the only thing that will help us out. the question we are dealing with in this agreement on conformity assessment and acceptance of industrial products (acaa) is a territorial question: who decides the boundaries of israel and our trade relations – israel according to its own law, or the eu according to international law? in the foreign affairs committee, we had asked for an interim report to clarify the legal questions. it is true, mr caspary, that the inta chair at first decided not to go for that approach. we were quite sad to hear that, but it is interesting that we are now returning to that option. i consider that option is still the best one we can take – to clarify the legal questions and get an interim report that clarifies the outstanding issues. it is our task as parliamentarians to check the legal validity. this is not only a legal question but a political one also.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to argue against the caa protocol today not politically, that we would be rewarding israel for its human rights violations, sending the wrong signal, but legally. the protocol provides that the territorial jurisdiction of the israeli pharmaceutical certification authority, in the specific case of the ministry of health, is defined by israel according to its own national law, of course. the second category is the illegal settlements in the west bank, which are illegal under international law, and the illegally annexed areas in east jerusalem and the golan heights, which are israeli territory. in the absence of any provision to the contrary in the protocol, it is to be feared that israel will extend the jurisdiction of the certification authority to the occupied territories. the eu would thus be forced to recognise israel's claim to sovereignty over parts of the occupied territories for the first time if the protocol were to be put into practice. i therefore call on the members of this house to vote against the caa protocol today. as democratically elected members of this house, we are obliged to respect eu and international law in our catalogue of values. the eu was awarded the nobel peace prize because we apply the principles of the rule of law and democracy - not just to the eu itself. how can we make this important ... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. − mr president, the proposal that we are debating today is about export control of dual-use items and technologies and it therefore, naturally, serves a dual purpose. firstly, this proposal is about our security. it aims to make the eu more efficient in preventing the risk of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and of the military use of civilian items, while ensuring that we comply with our international commitments in this respect. secondly, the proposal is about our prosperity. it will help level the playing field vis-à-vis our competitors and therefore foster our competitiveness by making sure that our export controls do not hamper legitimate trade in critical sectors of our economy. i believe that the objectives behind the proposal are shared by a large majority of members of parliament. it is vital to strike a fair balance between a strong defence of our security and the promotion of our trade concerns. in order for the eu to achieve these objectives, it is proposed to delegate to the commission the competence to update the so-called ‘eu control list’ – the list of controlled items – in the regulation governing the european dual-use export control system. updates of this list should be carried out frequently in order to comply with our international commitments, leading to quasi-automatic transposition of internationally-agreed controls into eu law. currently, the legislative procedure is too heavy and not suitable for such a frequent and technical task. let me take a recent example: it took the eu more than two years to update the common control list. this has been widely criticised by eu economic operators, who sometimes cannot trade in certain goods while their competitors have the freedom to do so, since these products have already been removed from the control lists in other countries. it is also proposed to empower the commission to update annex ii of our dual-use export control system, which provides for facilitated controls of certain low-risk items to certain low-risk destinations. this is needed to take account of sometimes rapidly changing circumstances: here again, our security is at stake and the question is how long should it take for the eu to require enhanced controls on exports when the security situation deteriorates in a particular country? in such cases, clearly, time is of the essence and the proposal therefore will accelerate this process. i have taken note of the different amendments tabled and would like to remind you of an ongoing and wide-ranging review the commission has launched in relation to our eu export control regime, which offers the appropriate setting to discuss issues that are outside the scope of the proposed regulation. as i have already explained, the purpose of the proposal we are debating today is simply to introduce a more efficient procedure to revise the eu control list which covers only dual-use items for weapons of mass destruction or military end-use. thus, we will provide more security and a level playing field for our exporters. that is what is at stake now.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to continue where commissioner de gucht left off. it must be in our common interest to control effectively whether fake products leave our european union. but we should always be clear about what this particular regulation is about. it's about products that can be used primarily by civilians. the question is whether the basic products, computer keyboards, desk chairs, spare parts for machinery and cars, which are essentially of a civilian origin, are being used. the main dispute which, despite all our agreement, still divides us this evening is the question of whether ex post or ex ante export statements should be made. i would ask that you reconsider what is in this draft regulation. we are talking about an exporter who invokes this regulation, if his country is on the appropriate list, if the product is on the appropriate list, then by law this regulation has the right to export his product. the only question we are now debating is whether, in principle, for statistical reasons, he must declare these exports ex ante or ex post. the question of ex post or ex ante is not whether the product may be exported or not. because if the country and the product are on the list, then it can be exported. it is simply a question of whether or not we impose on our competitors a - in my view - unnecessary competitive disadvantage in the matter of export controls. i would ask the other groups to reconsider whether we really want this. i think that the commission has a duty to do so, and i think that it is a duty to do so. i therefore expressly support the commission's proposal and what the rapporteur has said, that the lists must be amended by the commission as soon as possible so that we do not have these intolerable conditions of the past but effective export controls.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not dual-use goods often look harmless, but in the hands of authoritarian regimes, they can be as dangerous as machine guns or tanks. we undermine our foreign policy objectives by providing surveillance technology to authoritarian regimes that can then use it to control and suppress democratic movements. it was european mobile phone software from nokia siemens networks that played into the hands of iranian security forces in cracking down on the green wave of protests. protesters were abducted en masse, arrested, tortured and sentenced to death. this is just one example of many. in addition, the commission's 'catalogue of measures for innovative and competitive security industries' encourages these dubious dual-use goods. the aim is to make better use of the synergies between security and defence technologies. we are in danger of being sold out, literally, for the sake of a questionable industrial policy, human rights, but also our security interests. i therefore ask you to support the amendments tabled by our group and the socialists and alde.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. one and a half years ago we received two reports in this parliament under the assent procedure, namely the agreement which is now being voted on and a similar agreement on agricultural products with the palestinian territories. the agreement with the palestinian territories also contains a few details which we should discuss. and we all passed this agreement together, despite the fact that hamas is a co-government terrorist group in the palestinian territories, despite the fact that the death penalty is being carried out there, despite the fact that people are being oppressed there. (applause from the centre) our proposal at the time was to implement both agreements together, so that we could say that we are not taking a position, but that we want to be more honest brokers and maintain our position as intermediaries between the two parties. but the caa agreement we are voting on today has now been the subject of all sorts of concerns. every time one concern was addressed, another came along. this strategy is taking away our credibility. and i really ask that we close this sad chapter today and agree to this agreement! (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, traveling to other european countries without being stopped at borders is just one of the many benefits and rights that come with eu citizenship. for most of us, these have already become a matter of course, but many citizens do not know that the basis for this is the citizenship of the union introduced 20 years ago. it is therefore right and vital that we focus on educating our citizens about what the european union is and how it makes life easier for each of us on a daily basis. however, in addition to the 2013 european year of citizens, i would like to see many other actions in the future to bring the european union closer to everyone. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i have to say, madam president, what we have decided here on the occasion of the year of the citizen - which was, incidentally, initiated by parliament - is both a good thing and a tragedy. it shows the incredible disparity between the institutions and the citizens of europe. it's a great step forward. i fully support everything that is already in the commission's draft, but even more so in the report that has just been adopted. i therefore not only agreed to it, but as rapporteur on the committee on constitutional affairs i have also made a considerable contribution to making it a better report. but i want to be clear . it is like offering a teaspoonful of water to a thirsty person when he would really need a full glass. the budget, the legal framework and the measures are absurdly small in relation to what europe needs. in the present situation, where the biggest, most important issues in europe are being negotiated without any involvement of the citizens, we need not just a year of citizens, but more citizenship overall. the european parliament has been a very important instrument in the process of european integration.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it important that the discharge decision on the emea cannot be based on additional requirements, in particular the oecd guidelines, as the application of these requirements has not been officially requested, either by the eu legislator or by specific provisions of the agencies in the context of their discharge procedure, thus inviting the european institutions to consider whether it is advisable to incorporate and require compliance with additional guidelines in a possible common framework for all european institutions and bodies. on the basis of the data available, i approve the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european medicines agency in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i would like to express my support for the proposition to designate the next year as european year of citizens. i am convinced that striving to ensure people’s awareness of available european rights, we could promote cross-border labour mobility. being knowledgeable, european citizens could not only take informed decisions, but also be fully engaged in the union’s projects and initiatives. in my opinion, it is important to explain more effectively the advantages of the union citizenship status so as people could use accessible privileges as well as enjoy and protect their rights.
in writing. − supporting this report, i would like to call for the necessity to continue the ongoing improvement of passengers’ rights in eu legislation as well as in member states. i would like to stress that it is important to raise the awareness of european citizens about the existing consumer protection mechanisms at national and european level. at the same time it seems extremely important to submit the simplified and comprehensible form for application for the legislative petition so passengers could immediately and effectively defend their rights in the event of problems (delay of flights for example).
in writing. - i have agreed to the report with a grinding of my teeth, since unfortunately all the amendments which obscure or weaken the truth have been adopted. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. i am particularly concerned about the continued good cooperation between the two countries, given their unabashed joy at this.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the report. because this allocation of funds from the eu's globalisation fund is a very clear example for me of how we as members of parliament can support people at home, on the ground. and not only that: it is important for all the sites concerned by the insolvent printing machine manufacturer manroland not to lose the existing skilled workers. the 5.3 million euros now available from the european union must be used to train those affected and to offer them new prospects. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the additional protocol because i believe that it is beneficial for the european union. the additional protocol is not the right instrument to address human rights violations. such considerations should be made within the framework of the human rights clause of the convention itself. it is clear that israeli settlements in palestinian territories should not benefit from this additional protocol. the additional protocol does not lead to any international legal recognition of such settlements.
in writing. - in his report on smes: competitiveness and entrepreneurial opportunities, mr rübig spoke to me from the heart: we need sensible, consistent and independent impact assessments of what our laws could do or improve for smes, we need easier access to capital, we need improved advice, especially in the field of foreign activity. in this context, i would like to repeat my request, as i would like to see good advice for our smes who want to operate abroad: a multilingual internet portal with laws and information, as proposed by the commission and by mr rübig, can certainly help, provided it is user-friendly. but this can only be an addition: first of all, the consultation should always take place on the spot at the enterprises. for many, working internationally means taking a big risk: to take this on myself, i have to trust my partners! our companies have this in their vorort contact points, in the consultancy services they already know, such as een, and not at eu level or even in third markets. my trusted partner must then have trusted partners in the third markets where the company wants to go; this is how good advice on internationalisation must work.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is not the first time we have met on this subject, certainly not at this hour. the question is, slowly but surely, when will we get to the end of this issue of data retention? many member states and their constitutional judges have ruled that they are not in conformity with their national constitutions. we have the irish high court, which has referred the issue of data retention to the european court of justice, and many citizens in member states who have expressed not only their displeasure and their lack of understanding, but their clear rejection of the instrument of data retention. i hate to say that our assessment was correct many years ago, when this discussion first took place in 2005. we have some legal issues that are unresolved; we have economic issues of data storage that are unresolved. we have technical issues that are still unresolved. and above all, we have social issues that are unresolved. the commission's evaluation report has very clearly revealed the differences in the way data are stored in the member states, from access to files by the coastguard to oral requests from public authorities on how to process and use data. the evaluation report clearly showed that everything was achieved, except for the lack of harmonisation in the field of data retention. the unanswered question of whether it is necessary at all has not yet been answered. the authors have therefore rightly asked when we can expect the commission to make an amendment. it's time to stop riding a dead horse like the data warehouse. i would like to see us having the opportunity to discuss amendments during this parliamentary term and in particular to hear the commission's proposals on this debate. i hope we can learn more tonight. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think you can also see from the way i am presenting it that we are getting tired of this subject and i would be grateful if we could find a solution to this vexing subject at european level and perhaps also deal with it in a factual way.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. what an endless story, i can't even remember how many times we've discussed this. it is also a sign of poverty in a certain sense that we need an oral question today to ask the commission what it intends to do in the near future with regard to data retention. instead of indulging in illusions - and i must say this quite frankly - the commission should give up its games and face up to reality. and that includes the failure of the data storage. the commission's aim of introducing a uniform system for this is simply not working. it is not just that some member states are unable to implement the eu directive because of their constitutional situation. there is something else, a total patchwork of the other countries where there is implementation: some store six months, others twelve; some only use the data for serious crime, others for minor offences. this is a hopeless mess, like we've never had before. and now you are also suing the federal government, interestingly because of the negative consequences for the internal market and because the investigation of serious crimes by the german police would be impeded. where did you get this? what makes you say that? no one knows. research speaks a different language. it is not just the court judgments that are available and the corresponding investigations on which they are based. there are analyses of the facts, such as the truly unsuspecting scientific service of the german bundestag in 2011, which could not find any significant evidence that the data storage has any benefit for the enlightenment. even more obvious are reports such as the one by the max planck institute from 2012, which says: murder, robbery, child pornography, cybercrime the retention of data does not contribute in this context. i would say, mrs malmström, that if you as the commission have nothing new to say, you should at least suspend this directive until the european court of justice has ruled. and we are also calling for a europe-wide ban on the unsuspected retention of connection data.
a writer. the commission has already done so. just a few days ago, the case of 15-year-old amanda todd from canada sadly brought home to us that online behavior has evolved to harm others. in this case, it was cyberbullying, which is also on the rise in our europe. but the internet is also about fighting terrorism, crime in general, but in particular child abuse, organised crime, right-wing extremism or even phishing. now, just today, the un office on drugs and crime has spoken out in favour of international standards for data retention. of course, we need a balanced mix of fundamental rights on the one hand and judicial state prosecution on the other. in the case of amanda todd, the hacker group anonymous is now looking for the bully. this kind of self-righteousness on the internet can't be what we really want. this is why those who say that data retention must be abolished, and who are always against it, but do not offer a solution to this problem, or do not properly take into account the rights of victims of the internet, are also making it too easy. the successes in the search for the toulouse bomber, in my view, already demonstrate the need for data storage and also for data retention. the directive in its present form does not yet appear to be as balanced as it should be. this is why it may seem so important to bring forward a new proposal, improved on the basis of the 2011 evaluation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. only last monday, the parliamentary state secretary of the federal ministry of justice told a meeting of the petitions committee that the federal government would not submit a proposal on the implementation of the retention directive. until the implementation and renewal of the data retention directive is clarified, no submission will come from germany. i wonder how long this process is actually going to take. at least these remarks make it very clear that the infringement procedure initiated by you, commissioner, in may has made little impression on the german minister for justice. i cannot understand how a minister of justice can ignore the law in force, because she must know that every eu member state is also obliged to implement european law accordingly, and on time. the argument of the minister of justice that transposition is not possible with the existing directive is not valid in any case. perhaps you can contribute a few things here. in any case, the example of austria also shows that a member state which has long resisted and refused to implement the directive can also create a model law and that the rules can then also be good and constitutional. (the speaker agrees to answer two questions under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
question for the author: blue card procedure. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank mr voss for his very interesting remarks, particularly in relation to the role of the minister for justice. would you not consider that it is the job of a minister of justice, when she obviously recognises that a proposal is unlawful and, moreover, as the irish constitutional court has observed, otherwise the ecj would not have it, and might also be in breach of european law, to say, we are putting this off until it is clarified, rather than implementing something that is potentially unlawful?
the author answers two questions on the blue card procedure. - mr president, i have to say something. the minister of justice's position: it is not that the federal constitutional court has said that the retention directive is illegal. the federal constitutional court merely pointed out that the german implementing law lacked concrete measures for data security and that the barriers to state access were too low. these are the points on which the federal constitutional court has relied, and nothing else. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. toulouse: it is always about enabling prosecution in a court of law, that is, you need evidence. if you can prove wrongdoing, it is also reasonable to take into account all the evidence that you may obtain through the retention of data.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what are we talking about here? we are talking about the collection of all telecommunications data, all telecommunications framework data of all 500 million european citizens, at any time - not in certain situations, not when they are suspected, but always and at any time! it's about the constant surveillance of all people! you have to imagine what a profound interference this is in the fundamental rights of all citizens in europe. this intervention must be justified. i wonder, as do the previous speakers, how it can be shown that this directive, that this data retention is necessary and appropriate to achieve the objective of strengthening law enforcement, especially on the internet. i haven't seen this evidence, and i don't have any evidence of it. if you think about what our real concern is, for example, it's to reduce crime rates, to prevent crime. i 'll tell you what . it hasn't changed at all in time. they cannot see any difference between the member states where data retention exists and those where it does not, even when it comes to internet crime, in terms of crime statistics. instead, we've invested an incredible amount of money in implementing retention. that was pretty expensive. and that money is now lacking elsewhere, for example, when it comes to setting up internet access in a police station. that would be a proper, circumstantial investigation. i want you to think about that.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not mr voss, the storage of data is not a solution to a problem, it is a problem! let me illustrate its usefulness with an analogy: the other day i was walking through my hometown of dresden and by chance caught a burglar breaking down a door. i'm asking you, are you going to make it a policy that women my age should walk around the city at night to reduce crime? i think that is a question of the usefulness of the directive. i would like to conclude by saying that instead of wanting to go on riding a dead horse - i will use your analogy - and sifting through the data of millions of people, i would suggest the following, mrs malmström: perhaps you could give the eu interior ministers in our countries another tip, namely, for example, not to reduce the police and judicial bodies in their countries, to train the police and the judiciary properly and to combat the widespread disease of corruption. if we can do this in our countries, we will be doing something of value to the fight against crime and to the citizen.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have said almost everything, so let me just say this: why do we need to store data? sooner or later, a food stock must be replaced, that is, consumed, used and replenished. the debate on the data warehouse began as a counter-terrorism measure. but in practice, this data is it is there, it must be used used for a wide range of criminal prosecutions, including for medium and minor offences. in addition, the process increases the desirability of storing data that was not originally intended. the data is growing. the minimum is therefore: we must reduce the amount of data stored, the purpose for which it is used and the duration of its storage. we must protect the data against misuse and abuse. alternatives to current practice must not be taboo, and the rule of law and respect for citizens' rights are central cornerstones of our states and the eu. these principles must be respected and defended, including, in case of doubt, by repealing the directive.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we welcome the effort to start negotiations with japan on improving our economic partnership. but to me the kazak report seems to be an almost indecisive report. it gives me the impression of someone who wants to put his foot on the gas pedal and the brake at the same time. we should make up our mind as to whether we want to go forward or sit back for fear of getting into trouble with some industrial players and some industrial sectors that play the protectionist card. we should strive, not only for mercantilist reasons but also for geostrategic reasons, to make this effort with the japanese a success. that success should reach beyond merely trade-oriented aspects; it should, if possible, include issues like sustainability. i do not believe that every single regulatory measure that does not please everybody is, for that reason, a trade or a regulatory barrier. if we were to go by the yardstick of some industrial lobbyists, a night flight ban for tokyo airport would be considered a regulatory barrier. the commission was smarter than that and did not include that in its list, but it shows to what extremes some people want to carry the case. we regret that the key car category was considered to be a barrier rather than an opportunity. one last point: we should go ahead with this treaty and do so with more transparency than we have done similar things in the past, and clearly with more transparency that the tpp has been pursued with so far.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. a smart agreement between the eu and japan would lead to a greater integration of both economies. the 128 million potential customers in the high-wage country of japan are of course very interesting to european companies and their employees in a whole range of sectors. the mutual integration of know-how in production chains could lead to an improved position in global competition for thousands of subcontractors. you hear me, i'm speaking in the conjunctive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not think that this is a good start to a long-term mutually beneficial cooperation. today's issue is the mandate for the negotiations. i am in favour of the existing differences between the eu and japan being discussed clearly and openly at the negotiating table, and with a view to achieving results. a real partnership cannot be based on the dictates of preconditions. that is why we as a group have problems with the text of the resolution. let's look at the text. in some key elements, it seems to have been written by the automotive industry. how can we seriously demand, in times of climate crisis, a commitment from the japanese government to remove special treatment for electric and hybrid vehicles and incentives for mini cars like kei cars, just so we can export more diesel cars? the overemphasis in the resolution on the elimination of non-tariff measures also contradicts the findings of the copenhagen study on eu-japan trade. this study very well recognises that many of these measures serve to increase the common good, particularly in the areas of health, environment and consumer protection. we should analyse the regulation in question in terms of its purpose and seek an outcome which has a social benefit and yet favours trade. in addition, the companies interviewed mention other reasons, such as their reluctance to invest in japan. at the top of the list are language barriers, cultural differences, which also influence consumer choice, as well as high taxes and high labour costs. if you are hesitant to pay translation professionals, develop a successful marketing in japan and pay local wages and taxes, you should invest at home. these are the obstacles to trade which no agreement can and must remove. the inta committee last year was able to gain quite interesting insights into the strategy of the ikea giant, which has also adopted japanese consumer and social standards in a cultural sense. we need an agreement with non-tariff cooperation elements. joint programmes can bring together entrepreneurs and trade unionists, consumer associations, scientists, administrative professionals and young people from europe and japan. let us build a new culture of cooperation together! the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the majority of us in this house are firmly convinced that we must urgently launch and intensify this strategic partnership with japan. there are economic reasons, and it is also a question of fairness and a logical response that after the free trade agreement with korea we also conclude free trade agreements with other countries in this region in order to eliminate the trade distortions caused by a single agreement with korea. i hope we can get a real free trade agreement. i am quite frankly concerned about this, given the preparations that have been made in the last few months. i remember, for example, how pleased we were at the end of last year when the japanese side made concessions to us in the railway sector, but we are still seeing major difficulties in implementing these commitments in practice. i am concerned about the japanese being able and willing to open their markets. or are they concerned with improving access for japanese car manufacturers to our market but doing nothing else on their part? i therefore ask that we use the first year until this review to test whether there is an interest on both sides in opening up the markets to each other and thereby benefiting from this joint partnership. secondly, i have great concerns about the issue of resources. mr commissioner, we are currently engaged in over 30 international trade negotiations, and resources are extremely limited. we see this in the agreements we have now negotiated, almost in full, in central america or colombia and peru. since the negotiations were concluded, it has taken between one and a half and two years before we finally had the approval procedure here in the european parliament, because translation takes forever, because it takes forever for the legal services to check. i would be very grateful, mr commissioner, if your directorate-general could make a proposal to us for the forthcoming budgetary consultations, but also for restructuring within the commission, on how we can speed up this process.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on tuesday, 23 october 2012.
the next item is the joint debate on the 20th anniversary of the internal market on the commission statement on the single market act ii and the report by regina bastos on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the 20 main concerns of eu citizens and businesses about the functioning of the internal market (sec2011) 1003 2012/2044 (ini)) (a7-0310/2012).
member of the commission. - mr president, hello to each and every one of you. as we speak of the single market, one thing to remember is that the founding fathers in the 1950s supported the political ambition to be together and in peace - which is why they have just been awarded, in a way, posthumously, the nobel prize - on an economic project, on an interest, on a need to be together through the economy. the european coal and steel community, the common market, then the common policies and the single market were born. we are not only the heirs of this, but the actors. in particular, for the last 20 years, since the single market was decided in 1992. an anniversary - you have said it very well, mrs bastos - cannot be a moment of complacency, much less of melancholy or nostalgia, at this time, given the crisis, the suffering and anger of many citizens. this birthday should be a proactive, dynamic time, where we look at what went wrong, fix it, and move on. i have a conviction - and i know that many of you share it - that the whole battle for growth and competitiveness is not about the single market. but the single market is the essential condition for successfully meeting the challenge of sustainable growth and competitiveness. this market must be consistent. it must be solid as a floor so that everything we put on it, the private initiatives of small and large companies, the initiatives of the states, the local authorities of the union, will be more effective. the challenge today is therefore for citizens, consumers and businesses to work together to make this foundation, this pillar of the european economy, more solid and more coherent. that is why today's debate is important: it concerns both the citizens' follow-up of the top 20 and our commitment to the single market act. as regards the top 20, i would like to thank regina bastos very much for the continuous monitoring work she has done and i thank her for having identified these 20 major concerns. it was originally an idea in louis grech's report more than two years ago and in our discussions at the krakow forum. i agree with the broad lines of this report and attach great importance to all the tools that can bring the internal market - what we are doing in strasbourg and brussels together - closer to the citizens. the solvit tool which is now beginning to work well and which has helped to resolve many cases through mediation is now effective. the your europe portal, with increasing attendance i am told that 14 000 visitors per day are accessing the portal, thanks in part to the launch of a mobile phone application is a good reference in social media. these are tools that citizens, the grassroots, consumers, small businesses and savers need. i think more needs to be done, because citizens expect more, in concrete terms, as you have very well said, mrs bastos, and this is what emerges from the consultation we have carried out on the websites. the second element of the action, this proactive and dynamic mindset, aims to remove the bottlenecks which prevent this large market from being coherent. this is what we have wanted to do following the reports by louis grech and mario monti, through this agenda of operational measures, facilitating measures for economic actors and, in particular, small and mediumsized enterprises and consumers. it is the single market act, which i am implementing very rigorously and very daily, particularly for the first wave of single market act i, and on 14 june you adopted a resolution calling, as i would like, for the rapid adoption of the main measures of single market act i. the european council, on behalf of president van rompuy, has also written to the heads of state or government to stress this urgency. as far as possible, we should try to make good texts for the first reading, which meet expectations. there are a few telegraph messages i want to make on key issues for growth and competitiveness. the unitary patent: the cypriot presidency, to which i am grateful, is dealing with it. all member states must make every effort to support the compromise proposals on the last remaining point. i thank president lehne and bernard rapkay, raffaele baldassare, for their efforts to achieve this compromise. venture capital and social entrepreneurship are texts that investors are waiting for. we have one last point to deal with. i will propose to the council presidency, the cypriot presidency and the rapporteur that we meet to find a good answer to this legitimate question about tax havens and thus, if you will, we will have two new tools to promote venture capital throughout the european union and also to support the enterprises of the solidarity and social economy. as regards public procurement, for which mr tarabella is the rapporteur - thank you and the fictitious rapporteurs - we are close to an agreement to simplify access to public procurement and to qualify and value public money through a good method of public procurement and concessions. then there are the vocational qualifications. the european council is working on this again, and so are the rapporteurs, mrs vergnaud and the fictitious rapporteurs. i think we could reach agreement on this point, at the latest by the beginning of 2013, particularly on this original idea, which you support, on the mobility of business cards. in the meantime, because we have no time to lose, because there are other problems, as you said, mrs bastos, the commission has just proposed - it is a collective effort by about ten of my colleagues - that we should have a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to chemical agents. it is not just my job - the single market act ii, with other priorities, other points in which we need to make the single market work better. it is clearly the transport and energy networks, which are like the arteries of the single market, it is mobility, it is business and the digital single market. finally, there is what i consider to be one of the conditions for sustainable growth, social cohesion and consumer confidence. i shall be presenting, as you unanimously asked me to do, in a few weeks' time, a proposal on the basic bank account and transparency of bank charges. so we're committed together, we have this proactive, dynamic approach; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. it's a matter of credibility for us. i therefore share this concern for the governance of the single market on which mr schwab is going to make proposals which i will build on, and also the commission's agenda which i have described as 'zero tolerance'. we will publish every year, at the same time as the european semester, the scoreboard of the implementation of all the internal market directives and regulations, including the very important and not properly applied services directive. the idea will be to see where each country is in transposition and implementation. i am fully committed to implementing the texts you vote for, that is the job you must ask the commission to do and i assure you that i will do it. i have already said, ladies and gentlemen, that the single market is the first and most important element of the european political project. we are responsible for the proper functioning of this single market. i believe that to win the battle for growth and competitiveness, every citizen is needed, every company is needed and every territory, every region is needed. it is our collective duty to think of the citizens, the businesses and the regions from which the new growth will come, in order to make this new stage of the european single market a success for the next 20 years.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i believe that the celebrations of the 20th anniversary of the single market on 15 october were a real success, because they succeeded in bringing together a very wide range of stakeholders, as they are called in europe, to gather support for this project, which we have now completed 20 years. i would also like to express my sincere congratulations to the council, to the cypriot presidency, which has been actively involved and is taking part in this debate here today. this is a novelty for which we are extremely grateful. but these celebrations have also shown that we must continue to promote this internal market, which is actually there but is still not functioning properly in all areas, with the single market acts i and ii. the commission has done its work, and i would like to reiterate what mrs bastos said. the single market has been the subject of much discussion, but at some point we will be asked why it is still not fully functioning in certain places. and what is most important is more political will at the highest level of the council of ministers, mr minister, and at the highest level of the commission! it has been the case for a long time in europe that we have formally adopted european directives in the field of the internal market. they have been implemented at member state level partly correctly, partly incorrectly and partly inadequately. i am therefore very pleased that michel barnier has today once again announced his zero-tolerance policy with regard to the incorrect implementation and non-implementation of the single market acquis, because this will be crucial. we must also talk about the internal market in a different way. i therefore find it very positive that mrs regner has emphasized that the internal market has brought a lot of benefits to workers. and secondly, it brings the cultural diversity of europe directly to the dining room tables. it offers citizens the opportunity to experience europe at home. we should be more aware of the cultural dimension, because economic data alone are not enough for citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european single market, europe's greatest achievement, is celebrating its 20th birthday. crossborder travel, work and study, a huge market for businesses and consumers: the single market gives us all more freedom, is a driver for trade and productivity. however, the benefits to the european union of the single market could be doubled if further barriers to trade - particularly in the services sector - are removed through the promotion of the digital single market and the integration of infrastructures. if we look at the infrastructure of the single market, two things become clear. first, it is fragmented. few countries see crossborder connections as a priority. let us take the example of rail transport. a freight train traveling from italy to sweden has to change locomotives and crew up to four times along the way. secondly, the integration of national systems is extremely complex. both physical and regulatory barriers must be removed. the commission's proposals for transeuropean transport, energy and telecommunications networks, which are currently being discussed, address these and other problems. however, these ambitious goals can only be achieved if there is sufficient funding available. investing in infrastructure is thus the best use of eu funds, as it promotes sustainable growth, jobs and europe's competitiveness. this is why it is so important that member states do not make any cuts to the connecting europe facility in the context of the ongoing negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. small and mediumsized enterprises must also benefit more from the european single market. 99% of european enterprises are small and mediumsized enterprises, but only 25% export within the internal market. the further completion of the internal market is not a threat to the member states. on the contrary, it is an opportunity for more growth, more jobs and therefore more prosperity for the people of europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the single market is without doubt one of the most important and successful european projects. but this project - and this is what professor monti's report has already referred to - must be communicated to european citizens again and again. we must make it clear that the single market is not just for the economy, but above all for the citizens. we must address their concerns, as mrs bastos' report does. in times of deep economic crisis, high unemployment and growing poverty in many member states, a balanced economic structure is essential. it must strike a balance between free markets and public goods. it is also necessary to emphasize that these public goods necessarily contribute to the functioning of these markets. governance in the internal market, better regulation, also requires that european standards and regulations be examined to see whether they respect or threaten this balance between the free market and public goods, and whether they strengthen or undermine democratic structures, including local and regional self-government. i would like to stress once again that i find it problematic when the troika recommends the privatisation of water in portugal and greece, for example, without really involving the population! we must ensure that we have a balance that also protects much-needed public goods while strengthening free markets. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question for the commissioner: madam rühle, you have just said that you want public goods to be protected in the member states. i agree with that. the question i have for you is: do you, like me, also believe that the decision on how to protect these goods must be made during the legislative process, during the process, in the european context and not then be made unilaterally by the member states at the implementation level?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not this is not just a matter for the european level, but the european level must also take into account the subsidiarity of the regional, local and national levels in its decisions. if it does, it can of course work with the regional, local and national levels to ensure that it actually gets implemented.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the single market has become a matter of course for our citizens. who today does not remember with amusement the judgment of 1979 in cassis de dijon or the banana war with the united states? when we look at the world trade wars and conflicts, the european single market is the pillar of the european philosophy: no barriers, no discrimination, legal certainty and fair competition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the needs of the citizens of europe, and that the european union is able to meet the needs of the citizens of europe. we social democrats support the commission in its action against market domination and unfair competition, whether it is microsoft or google, whether it is german energy companies or gazprom. but we must also pay more attention to the third point made by jacques delors: the single market also means solidarity which unites.
in writing. the eu's internal market is one of europe's most valuable achievements. between 1992 and 2008, it created some 2.77 million jobs and increased gdp by 2.13%. these figures illustrate the potential of a well-functioning eu internal market. the twenty years we are celebrating is an anniversary that should make all europeans proud. but what has been achieved should also give us the impetus to remove all remaining obstacles. the rapporteur has made it clear that there is still a lot of uncertainty in the internal market. the eu commission has also summarised in a working paper 20 of the main concerns of citizens which make it unnecessarily difficult for the eu to function smoothly on a daily basis. the identified problem areas need to be addressed in an integrated approach. another problem is how to ensure that all european citizens, wherever they live, benefit from the achievements of the eu's single market. current account deficits within the eu have the potential to put the union on a longterm downward trend. european policy must act against this.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, the council fully shares the view that europe’s economic prospects are very much reliant on skilled and adequately-educated human capital and that the lifelong learning programme – including the erasmus programme – is one of the most successful european programmes in the educational sector. therefore, let me assure you that the financing of the lifelong learning programme in 2012 and 2013 will not be put in danger. concerning 2012, the council has started analysing the commission’s proposals as presented in draft amending budget no 6/2012 and will adopt its position on this draft amending budget as soon as possible. as far as the appropriations for 2013 are concerned, these will be decided jointly by the european parliament and the council during the ongoing budgetary negotiations. i am confident that the two arms of the budgetary authority will reach a balanced agreement on the 2013 budget in november, as foreseen by the treaty. finally, concerning the future of the lifelong learning programme, including erasmus, you all know that the negotiations concerning the next multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 are still in progress. the european parliament is involved in these negotiations. the presidency will make every effort to move the negotiations on the programme along, but it would not be in order for me to say more than that at this stage, since we need to wait for the outcome of those negotiations.
member of the commission. − madam president, recently there has been a lot of speculation and a lot of question marks and uncertainty regarding the fate of the erasmus programme, including in the media. therefore the commission welcomes this opportunity to clarify the matter. however, it is also my duty to place the problem of erasmus, as one single programme, in the more panoramic view of what is really a shortage of funds in the european budget not only for erasmus – this is only a part of the problem, one of the smallest but most visible parts of the problem, we are encountering in 2012. this is due to the systematic under-budgeting in the annual budget. the major deficiencies in 2012 are in the social fund and in regional policy and rural development, but also in our external obligations, which reflects on the credibility of the european union vis-à-vis our partners around the world. this is why we are coming forward with the amending budget for this year. there is a large amount of money is needed not only for cohesion and for rural development, but also for external obligations and especially for heading 1a which concerns competitiveness, covering all sorts of research programmes including lifelong learning. erasmus is part of lifelong learning which, as you know, is also about vocational training, possibilities for adults and for schools, and the most sensitive part of that concerns student mobility, namely erasmus. what we need in order to overcome the deficiencies for this year under this heading of research, training and education amounts to more than six million euros. for lifelong learning, which covers all sorts of programmes, our estimate is for eur 180 million up to the end of the year, including erasmus, which accounts for half this amount – more or less eur 90 million. your commitment to vocational mobility around europe is also very important because, alongside this year’s problem, what is at stake here is the future of these programmes, indeed the future of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. education is very high on our common agenda due to the very high unemployment among the younger generation. therefore, knowing how to acquire the right mix of skills is essential in order to place the younger generation in a decent european labour market; the future of what we call erasmus for all is also at stake. but to return to the issue of erasmus 2012-2013. i think parliament was right to ring the alarm bell for erasmus for this year, and here is the brutal truth: 99 % of what we have in our pocket – the european budget – has already been delivered to the national agencies around europe. of course we are contacting not only the national agencies in the european union but a total of 33 participating countries, including iceland, lichtenstein, norway, turkey, croatia and switzerland. 99 % of what was available for 2012 has already been delivered to the 33 national agencies. we have already had claims for this year of around eur 160 million, and we expect more claims for 2012. i think that it is easier to say who is not applying for additional money: portugal, finland, luxembourg, cyprus, bulgaria and romania. the other countries are applying and sending requests for additional money. therefore, an amendment to this year’s budget is essential. i have to repeat that what we have estimated we need for all sorts of educational programmes for this year is eur 180 million. what we need for erasmus is half that: eur 90 million. of course, minister mavroyiannis is right. it is our duty to ensure the smooth implementation of erasmus in 2012 and early 2013, as we have already advanced a lot of money to the national agencies. but if there are no more funds coming in, we will really encounter a very serious accumulation of problems in 2013, as the universities are less likely to deliver to the students and are likely to reduce the expectations for student mobility in 2013. this is why i urge you to help us. this is also a kind request to the presidency: to deliver a substantial increase for 2012 and not to have an accumulation of problems in this very valuable european union programme in 2013. together we can manage.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i've listened to you carefully, but i'm the only one who lacks faith! why are we here today? it is a poor testimony to the responsible governments - not to the commission, not to parliament! we must be clear about what we are talking about here. it is not a question of increasing funds, for example because the commission has done a bad job, it is simply a question of the national states not respecting their commitments to young people (applause) who want to study abroad because parents, business, society and politicians proclaim every sunday how important education is and how important experience abroad is. the bologna process, which has already failed, has already made life unnecessarily difficult for students. now they are even going to damage the reputation of the flagship of european education policy, erasmus, without any need to do so. it is already the case that for many young people with erasmus, staying abroad is already a financial liability. if they now feel that they cannot even rely on these promises, that is a devastating signal, especially for those who are in dire need of erasmus support. the ministers of education have repeatedly stated - and now again - that the goal of 2020 must be achieved, that many young people can go abroad, can be mobile. what are we to think if, for lack of money, not even the 5% of erasmus students can go? i therefore believe that the budget-reformers, the council representatives, should not be reorganizing the budget on the backs of the students, but should at least be generous, because it is also the future of their children! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. unfortunately, it is right and necessary that we sound the alarm today. we have a terrible situation with regard to the erasmus programme: students are no longer receiving the money for their scholarships that was promised to them. it is absolutely contrary to the objectives - i have to address myself to you, mr president of the cypriot presidency - which the council has decided together with parliament to do more for erasmus, more for student mobility and more for the training and education of our young people. how can you be so short-sighted and irresponsible to undermine one of the most successful programmes we have in the european union - the erasmus programme? mrs pack was right when she said that we have already reached 99% of implementation in october of this year. what more could you want? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. but not with a program that you know will benefit everyone involved! you've become a breach of contract. you promised to pay me, but you're not paying me. this undermines the credibility of the european council and, unfortunately, the credibility of the european union as a whole. this is a serious political mistake! but we are not dealing only with the flagship programme erasmus, which is under pressure, but also with the european social fund, for example, which has no funds left. do you know what you're risking? there is no money this year for literacy courses and for the training of the long-term unemployed. this is completely counterproductive to what you always proclaim at your summits, that we must do more to combat youth unemployment, that we must encourage young people to travel in europe, to develop their skills and to continue their education. i would like to ask you to stop this irresponsible policy and to approve a supplementary budget. and above all, let us approach the next multiannual financial framework with courage and really make these funds available for european education policy.
in writing. - policy coherence is ultimately about shaping a sustainable policy in our own interests. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. we need them for new markets and new resources. secondly, only through pcd can we free development policy from its role as a repair shop for other policies. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i would also like to mention briefly the reform of the cap which is under way. i would be very grateful to my colleagues on the agri group if they could accept some of our really balanced proposals. and thirdly, it is only through pcd that developing countries have the opportunity and the responsibility to develop themselves.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think that with today's debate on mifid we have moved into the can of financial market regulation in this parliamentary term, because it is about regulating financial markets and not just looking at individual products as we have done in the past. i just want to mention a few key words. we haven't made it easy for each other in the last year. we have held a hearing in committee, we have consulted all the stakeholders, all the interested groups and on this basis, with various processes, working papers and so on, we have produced a result which we are putting to the vote in plenary today and tomorrow. i want to make a few points. the first is market structure. on the one hand, we must of course acknowledge that a great deal has been done in the financial markets in recent years, but it is in our interest as a parliament that all trading in financial securities that takes place should be within the rules of the mifid game, which is why we have also agreed, under many conditions, to a new category, the so-called organised trading facilities, where only non-equities should be traded, where proprietary trading should be prohibited and where execution, transaction and customer interaction can be executed at our own discretion. i think we are making an important contribution to the fact that the whole range of otc securities that are traded are traded within the mifid world. another major topic not covered in the last mifid is so-called algorithmic or high frequency trading. we also wanted to establish clear rules of the game so that this area, which can be very dangerous and can also be used manipulatively, is subject to strict regimes, with minimum withholding periods, with trading interruption possibilities, with the possibility of testing algorithms, with the possibility within the supervisory structure to look at algorithms, with the introduction of a so-called tick-size regime, a minimum price size, and through corresponding fee systems. the second point i would like to raise is the question of commodity futures markets. i do believe that we have a special responsibility here to limit the speculative share of the futures markets in such a way that we do not contribute by wrong regulations to the fact that people in the third and fourth worlds can no longer buy food. we have therefore adopted a two-pronged approach, the aim being to curb speculation without harming the real economy. we want to achieve this with position limits, with strict ceilings on the number of contracts or positions. but we also want to ensure that those who can prove that they really need a product, with a so-called position-check system, do not suddenly enter this market speculatively. another issue that concerns us very much is the protection of investors. i would just like to point out that we have taken a very broad approach to ensuring consumer and investor protection. the aim is to identify the needs of specific customer groups. not every small saver has access to all the highly complex papers. it is a question of defining appropriate products for target groups, carrying out product tests, telephone records, corresponding consultations, disclosure obligations, but - i would like to suggest this briefly - in the area of commissions, to apply the principle of subsidiarity. the member states should be given the possibility to make appropriate adjustments in accordance with their structures. i think we're on the right track. as my time is running out, i want to thank everyone who has contributed to this. i think it is a pity that you only get four minutes for such a difficult dossier. i thank all the colleagues who have contributed here and the commission for their very constructive role in the last weeks and months. i hope that with a strong vote from the plenary tomorrow we will be able to enter into negotiations with the council in order to conclude this important dossier as soon as possible.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. - mr president, i have to say something. my role in this major financial market regulation is limited to the aspect of the extent to which industry is affected by financial market regulation - i am speaking on behalf of the committee on industry - because there is a need for regulation in the financial markets which we are addressing with this package of directives and regulations. but there is also a lot of actionism in financial regulation, and the commission's first proposal on this subject would have simply resulted in the real economy companies, industrial companies - i think for example smaller industrial companies such as german public utilities or agricultural cooperatives - being treated in the same way as banks, for example, when they secure supply relationships with suppliers and with customers on the futures markets. that would have been collateral damage to financial market regulation, which should be in no one's interest. in my view, it is clear that industrial enterprises must be treated differently from banks. the vast majority of the forward transactions these companies make are for hedging, not for speculation. even if they are speculative, i must say that i do not know of any industrial company, or energy supplier, that is systemically relevant. the committee on industry was very clear in its opinion on this subject and i should also like to say that i am pleased that these aspects have been taken into account in the final package. in this respect, we have done a good job in this aspect of the regulation of the financial markets.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, thank you for the overall good cooperation on this report. we have a commission proposal which has already taken great strides in the right direction, and we can improve it further in central areas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial markets are not affected by the introduction of new rules. the decisions of our compromise on high-frequency trading go far beyond what the commission had originally proposed and deserve the support of parliament as a whole. the report also points in the right direction on the issues which have been the subject of great public criticism. in the area of commodity and food speculation, after long and difficult debates, it is now - it must be said - much stronger than the commission's decisions, because position limits are now set as binding. we need to make further changes in this area to fill in the gaps. i hope that the plenary vote will also be supplementary and that the trilogue will also be added. it is gratifying that mr barnier has already indicated his support for parliament's further proposal. the report does, however, have weaknesses in the area of consumer protection. we now have the possibility of banning products - that is progress - but we still have no changes in the area of commission-driven advice. the distribution of financial products is still not primarily oriented towards the interests of customers, but is strongly dominated by the product for which there are the most commissions. consumers in germany in particular, but also elsewhere in the eu, have lost a lot of money. think of the open-ended real estate funds. unfortunately, for the citizens of france, italy, spain and germany, for example, not much will change after our compromise. the basic principle will continue to be commission orientation. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i wish there were stricter rules here.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues for their good cooperation, and in particular mr markus ferber. it was really a very good, fair and open cooperation. you don't always get that, and i really appreciated that. i would also like to thank the ngos. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the rapporteur - i would like to emphasize this again - has also taken this up, and that is not a matter of course. it hasn't always been easy or comfortable. but i think it was very important and good that the ngos intervened at this point. this has opened up the dry and difficult subject of financial market regulation to a section of the population, the citizens. it is good for parliament that such an important story gets a little bit of its way out of this house. i agree with what sven giegold has already said. it is an important and good step we have taken in the area of food speculation. but there are still some questions about the gaps, whether there are still some loopholes. but experience will have to show that, and then you will have to work on it. i think that what we have done on high-frequency trading is very worthy of support, and i can support it wholeheartedly - and i think most of my group will support it as well. it's not a given. but at that point, we really did something good and useful together. the commission's proposal is not a new one. i think that is another point that needs to be adjusted a little bit. but this story is not so simple. there are a number of amendments to this tomorrow. let's see what comes out of this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank markus ferber for his excellent work. it wasn't easy, but it worked out fine. the mifid is a cornerstone of european financial regulation and i am very pleased that the european parliament is now taking such a clear and strong position with the revision of the mifid. we are well ahead of the council on another occasion. the mifid will improve market structures, accelerate trading, reduce systemic risk and above all also strengthen investor protection. the european securities and markets authority should also continue to grow in its role for the time being. all in all, this will make financial markets a little safer. i would like to emphasize briefly the subject of investment advice. the econ committee has voted unequivocally on this. europe is very diverse in its consultancy models: commission-based consultancy, commission-based consultancy, fee-based consultancy - whatever the models are called, each model certainly has its advantages and disadvantages. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i therefore support the approach of the economic and monetary committee, which is in favour of greater disclosure and transparency, but which does not prohibit any model as such. the quality of the advice is not guaranteed if the consultant is only paid a fee. there are certainly plenty of citizens who have been dissatisfied with the work of paid freelancers. perhaps we should also take the debate in a completely different direction. what about financial education? an initiative to teach economics and finance in schools and vocational schools would certainly also contribute to greater investor protection.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the mifid ii directive, commissioner barnier, is indeed a milestone on the road to greater efficiency in financial markets. in order to ensure that all financial actors play by the rules, effective supervision must be ensured. the excellent report by my colleague, mr markus ferber, rightly calls for greater investor protection. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted. by disclosing all information, they can choose the investment strategy that is most beneficial to them. products with a high speculative factor must be clearly identifiable from the outset. the high-frequency trading is also subject to much stricter regulation. such transactions at the speed of sound, in which no significant transactions are made, shall be deferred. the planned minimum holding times of 500 milliseconds for orders are correct. they shall ensure that the continuous placing and cancellation of orders is kept to a minimum. and if orders are cancelled unfulfilled just to drive up prices, then the dealers must be asked to come to the checkout. i welcome the compromise reached on the position limits, i.e. the maximum number of financial contracts held and involving high risk. it allows the excess speculation in raw materials to be put on a more rational footing. there is no doubt that we need raw materials to supply our industries with the necessary means of production. but what we definitely do not need are bets that drastically raise the price of food and production. here too, clear boundaries must be set.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have rarely had the opportunity to praise mr ferber in plenary as convincingly as i have today, because he has done a very good job. the compromise he has drawn up, which was also adopted unanimously, is the result of many negotiations. i commend you for that. i have three points i want to address. the first is the question of position limits. the solution that has been found, and which is obviously still being fought from the outside, is the right one, namely, that we should not throw the child with the bath and blame the surpluses in agricultural trade, which certainly exist, for world hunger. if you solve position limits as markus ferber suggested, you are on the right track. the second concerns the compromise on the ban on commissions, which has now been tabled at the last minute. this could, as it is now formulated, significantly change the market. as rapporteur for insurance mediation, i would have preferred that this compromise had been left to the member states, because there are different systems. to write now, to 'make sure that commissions are generally prohibited', is too much for me, because it will entail a process of concentration in the vertical. thirdly, the high-frequency trading. it has been raised: here again, there are many in the industry who oppose the compromise proposals. but i think it is right that high-frequency trading should be slowed down, because otherwise in the future computer systems and powerful computers will manipulate the financial market even more than they have done so far. that needs further work. this was not possible in mifid. but in the negotiations that are to take place, the rapporteur will be able to achieve something in this respect. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
question for the commissioner: the commission is not mr langen, are you aware that the compromise as it stands does not, to my regret, bring about any major changes at all for the vast majority of the committee? the transparency requirements in this area are essentially the same as in mifid i, and only concern the independent financial advice, which in germany is almost non-existent. it is the only one that calls for a ban on commissions. in all other areas, the commission-driven advice which has led to a large degree of bad investment is to continue. are you aware that you are, in your view, wrong to criticize mr ferber?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i have not criticized mr ferber. this is a compromise proposal on which the greens have obviously not cooperated or have not been willing to cooperate because you are representing maximum demands. it could also have been written: '... can the member states ensure that investment advice is allowed or is prohibited ...' i would have liked to leave this to the discretion of the member states and not to leave it as it is formulated here. the mandate is clear: member states must ensure that ... is prohibited. why the greens are not involved is beyond me. i am not criticizing mr ferber, i am criticizing the greens who want much more than is possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we know that stocks losing almost their entire value in milliseconds, billions of euros in dollars suddenly disappearing into thin air, that's not science fiction, but unfortunately, it's a reality today. today, trade is carried on at a speed that cannot even be measured by a clock. the damage to the economies is enormous. if there's anything we can do to change that, we should try. many citizens at home are asking the same question as i am: what is the potential economic benefit of speculation compared with the enormous risks involved? this development must be controlled as far as we can. and this was one of the reasons for the revision of the directive. the solutions identified by the economic committee therefore include minimum retention periods for trade, higher fees for too many cancelled orders, new resilience controls for the system and contingency measures such as the possibility of eu-wide trade disruption. with this bill, we are doing something to contain such risks to economies. what about the consumer? what does he get out of our arrangements? the directive is designed not only to control high-frequency trading but also to better protect small private investors in the future. who has not felt that he was pushed by his investment adviser into a particular product which, in retrospect, proved more beneficial to the adviser than to the client? so my approach is that we need to create more transparency: the client shall be adequately and transparently informed as to whether the advice is provided for a fee and what the fees are. the aim is to provide customers with a complete cost statement and information on the full range of products. in addition, all products, old and new, should be checked annually to ensure that they are in the best interests of consumers. we are now at the point of the commissions. the committee believes that commissions should only be allowed if they are passed on to the customer, are necessary for the provision of the product, for example, taxes, or if the customer is informed of the fees. member states can now decide for themselves whether to ban commissions altogether. we do not need to regulate this at eu level.
member of the commission. - mr president, i shall now return to the remarks made by mrs zuber. mrs zuber, we must be objective; the commission, parliament or the council are not giving partial answers. we deal with every product, every sector, every financial actor. for more than two and a half years, since i have had the honour of being european commissioner and of working with many of you, we have built a european union of the people. mrs zuber, you have to look at things objectively. if you put them together, as they are together in this chart and you explain things to your citizens, you have to have proof that we are dealing with the aftermath and learning from the financial crisis, that we are doing the job. and not just the commission, but you, too, do the work as a member of parliament. what's the matter? you have reason to be proud of the work that is being done by all the parliamentarians on the proposals we are making to learn from the crisis and ultimately do what the citizens expect, which is to give back the financial markets, which we need mrs goulard was right to say that they should be in the service of the real economy rather than in their own service, as they have been allowed to do for 15 or 20 years. i say this because it is not a small piece, a grain of sand, that mr ferber's report proposes to you from our proposal. mr krahmer, mrs gáll-pelcz and mrs goulard have spoken specifically about the real economy. your proposal, like the one i am presenting, is very attentive to the needs of the real economy and of small and mediumsized enterprises. firstly, by establishing sound, transparent, efficient and useful financial markets for financing the real economy, to avoid what mr stolojan referred to as a problem in his own country, for example, and to meet the need for credibility, transparency, consumer and investor protection. but we are also taking specific measures both for the access of smes to the financial markets. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that the european economy is financed in our country, in europe, by 75% by the banks and 25% by the financial markets. this is the opposite of the united states, where financial markets finance 75% of the economy. but 25% in europe is still far less for small and mediumsized enterprises. i mean my intention to continue to work on specific measures for the access of small and mediumsized enterprises to the financial markets, with carefully calibrated exceptions, in particular for industrial investments. i am thinking of what we have done, for example, with mr werner langen for emir and what we are also doing for smes with mr othmar karas on banking regulation. mr goebbels pointed out that there was a clause in the text which called for revision. it is extremely important to remember that i support the idea of a revision clause in most of the texts i am presenting to you. as you have said, mr goebbels, but also as mr winkler, mrs gáll-pelcz and mrs băsescu have pointed out, we are dealing with extremely efficient, extremely imaginative financial markets which use not only technology but also, sometimes, loopholes or holes in global regulation - and there are a few - and which are moving very fast, much faster than we are and much faster than democracy. that is why, as mr goebbels has said, we need to have clauses for meetings to verify, adapt and improve our texts. i would now like to say a few words on a subject which is very important to me. you know i was minister of agriculture in my country. i have had the opportunity to comment on what mrs swinburne has mentioned, namely the increasing financialisation of transactions on agricultural markets as compared with physical markets. this financialization has increased exponentially in recent years, with increased volatility, which naturally entails many additional risks of speculation. that is why, like mrs mccarthy, mr schmidt, mr klute, mr goebbels, mr langen, mrs berès, mr mann and mr cutaş, i want to express my support for the proposals made by your rapporteur, which you unanimously supported, to reinforce further evidence - i say this to mr sven giegold - that the commission's proposals can always be improved or strengthened, and often are. i don't have the science in me; i do an honest, volunteer, usually ambitious job. i am sometimes accused of being too much if i listen to some lobbyists but i don't listen to them any more than that. i would like to say that, fortunately, parliament is making improvements to many of the texts. this is particularly the case with the question of position limits, where we can see that high frequency trading needs to be regulated. i haven't heard of any proposal to ban high frequency trading. i maintain, mr goebbels, that it is of some use in price formation but it must be controlled and regulated. there are certain abuses that must be avoided. that is precisely what we are proposing together. i'm going to take a very close look at what happened in may 2010 in the crash in the united states. we have not always understood very well, even two years later, what happened. so there was a need for this principle of responsibility and we shall see with the review clause whether that is enough. in any case, echoing the remarks made by president sharon bowles, i would like to remind you that the proposals you are about to approve as a very strict framework of position limits - and i would like all the other g20 partners, including the americans, to confirm their determination to do the same - are supported - ladies and gentlemen, i give you this information - by the international committee of financial market regulators, iosco, which has just said in a report that this is the way to go. i would like to answer, mr president, if i may, several of your colleagues, olle schmidt, mr balz, mr sosa wagner, sven giegold, mrs swinburne and mrs berès, on the question of committees. we've tried to find the right balance. we must regulate backtracking and ban it where necessary. we have in fact provided for this prohibition in two very specific cases: independent advice and portfolio management. in both cases, i think that being paid by the supplier of the products sold is completely irreconcilable with the possibility of providing the independent service that the investor expects. i am aware, ladies and gentlemen, of the changes that such a ban may bring about in certain markets. this is why the commission proposal retains the option for investors to have recourse to non-independent advice if they so wish. and finally, i would like to remind you that in another text, prips, we have also, and in parallel, strengthened and simplified the information available to all individual investors and to which they are entitled. mr helmer stressed the importance of london square. i think that the fact that we have, with the city, such a prominent place for financial markets is an opportunity, not just for the united kingdom but for all of europe, and i do not see, mr helmer, how the fact of increasing transparency and promoting healthy markets, as the mif directive wants to do, could be seen as an attack on london. or i don't understand it any more! i have always seen and observed that the city officials, the british treasury officials, supported the joint effort we are making for the single market in financial services, for transparency and for the promotion of healthy markets. and if it is not, i would like you, mr helmer, to confirm that. mr helmer, who is a supporter of liberalism, will allow me to remind him - i am speaking from memory - of what the great liberal thinker adam smith said: 'there is no market without rules and without the morality of its own players'. there is no market without rules and without morality, mr helmer, for the players in these financial markets. and that is what we are restoring by learning from the crisis. mr martin, we are indeed learning the lessons of the crisis and also making sure that the will of citizens who no longer want to pay the costs of regulatory arbitrage and a certain irresponsibility is taken into account. in sum, ladies and gentlemen, we need financial markets - i repeat after mrs goulard - we need secure, transparent markets and perhaps in the last few lines, mr markus ferber, we will be able to see whether we have closed all the loopholes in detail, to leave as little chance as possible for regulatory arbitrage and to be sure in every detail that there is this requirement for transparency, but also for traceability. that is the objective we have pursued with werner langen on the emir text and, finally, i would like to say a word of thanks to mrs mccarthy for the work she has done with the report which has just been voted on on another directive which is part of this package on sanctions, including criminal or penal sanctions for market abuse. in conclusion, we are working for the real economy. we want to put financial markets back in the service of the real economy and in all the texts that we are working on together, mifid today, capital requirements for solvency, pension funds, we have to have this concern for the real economy and for long-term investments. that is why i am going to open a debate with a green paper on how not only to avoid penalizing longterm investment and the real economy, but to encourage it. i would also like to support mr balz's proposal on financial education, which is a very important point and which we should develop in various ways. finally, i would like to say that the thanks you unanimously addressed to your rapporteur, markus ferber, are justified in view of the complexity of this text, which is a key element of this regulatory agenda, and to your thanks i would like to add my own, saying that we are ready to make the final straightening in the next few weeks.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'll make this quick. first of all, i'm glad that i have such broad support from the far left to the far right. i don't know if that's a good thing. but it might help to have found a reasonable compromise in the middle. secondly, i should like to point out that we are talking about financial market regulation. so it's about which markets are trading. trading in financial products always involves some risk, there is no such thing as a risk-free financial market. so anyone who demonizes the financial markets per se will not be satisfied with no regulation. that was not our intention either. our intention has been to ensure that all trading in financial products takes place within a regulated framework and that these financial markets generate added value for the economy and are not there for themselves. if there is one lesson to be learned from the period before 2008, it is that financial markets have become independent and have not generated any more value for the real economy, which we have painfully experienced in recent years. so we worked together on a lot of stuff. i would like to thank all the shadow reporters who have contributed to this report. we will be able to meet with the council in the coming months to reach a good result. i hope that we can continue this good spirit which we have had in the talks for almost a year in the negotiations.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think it is important that we as the european parliament should deal very intensively with the european semester, which we also brought forward when we negotiated the six-pack. why would you do that? because i believe that what we have suffered in europe is not that we have formulated rules of the game with each other, but that the rules of the game are not applied in the end as they were formulated at european level. it is the honourable task of a parliament to accompany this process very closely and to put its finger in the wound again and again where things are not going as agreed. i believe that the report presented here - and i would like to thank the rapporteur, jean-paul gauzès, in particular - provides an important indication of what can be improved in the interaction between the member states, the national parliaments, the european parliament, the commission, which must monitor the whole thing, and the processes that then take place in the member states. the euphoria, the mood of departure - yes, we want to do better things for the future - this momentum is something we must now also use together if we want to ensure that europe draws the right conclusions from the financial, economic and sovereign debt crises in the long term. the commission's individual reports to the member states and the work done by parliament have made many, many important contributions to this end. i would like to thank the rapporteur for that. we in the epp group will support this report with all our strength. but we will also make sure that in the coming weeks, months and years, policy is not just written on paper, but is also implemented in the interests of european citizens and taxpayers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european semester for economic policy coordination is a model of success. it is an early warning system to detect possible imbalances in the eu member states as quickly as possible. together with the stability and growth pact, the european semester is an effective tandem. the national level must ensure that policy measures are put into practice once they have been decided. the demands from the left to relax the rules are unfounded. they would mean that all efforts to strengthen competitiveness and budgetary discipline in the eu member states would fail from the outset. mr kariņš has given a good example from his home country. in his report, mr jean-paul gauzès makes it clear that the approach of pursuing substantial structural reforms while at the same time pursuing fiscal consolidation is fully justified. this is the best way to deal with the debt crisis. after tough negotiations in the political groups, we in the econ committee have adopted a balanced report which advocates a careful approach in the context of economic and budgetary coordination. i would like to see the social aspects of the programme brought back into the foreground alongside the economic aspects. the deepening of social dialogue is as important as progress in improving the quality of jobs, mobility in labour markets and in education and training. - i'm not going to do it.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not commissioner šefčovič, parliament has always actively supported the danube strategy. we have the danube network of 60 members of parliament, of which i have the honour to be vice-chairman. i am therefore pleased, as the first signatory of the oral question, that the danube is on the agenda today. the development is progressing, as is the bridge between gudin and calafat, which i visited during the summer as part of the international danube cycle tour. but some of this progress is happening at a snail's pace. there are still great difficulties. bulgarian mayors report that seven ministries in sofia are consulted for construction on the danube. other danube-neighbours in their member states also have the impression that the danube is marginal and not the focus of attention in the capitals. we therefore call on the commission to make the conclusions more concrete, to make the measures more concrete. in the current funding period, funds should be allocated to the danube strategy, and in the future funding period we need a separate budget line for the danube. we have concrete projects, like the danube manager. the aim is to build up administrative capacity. the aim is to support small and medium-sized enterprises by encouraging them to cooperate. the aim is to create technology transfer centres. but above all we need more citizen encounters. we find that these civic meetings must be supported, otherwise they do not work. i have written to chancellor merkel and also to commissioner lewandowski, proposing the creation of a danube youth foundation. the question is: can the commission imagine itself giving financial support to such a danube youth centre? many young people would like to meet, but they cannot afford to fill up the gas or pay for train tickets to attend the meetings. ladies and gentlemen, the parliaments should also play a greater role. i hope that we as the european parliament will take the lead and invite the other national and regional parliaments to join us in making the danube strategy our cause even more strongly than before.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is very good that the commission is today issuing a statement on the state of implementation of the eu strategy for the danube region. it is not always easy for us members of parliament to get relevant and timely information. it is even more difficult for civil society. it is hoped that this civil society will be involved in all countries along the danube and help shape the implementation of the eu strategy for the danube region. but how can it do that if it is not informed in a timely and comprehensive manner of the state of implementation? i therefore ask you in the commission to make a special effort, also in conjunction with the partner countries, to ensure that we receive regularly relevant information from you for implementation. i would also ask you to reply to a written question i put to you together with colleagues from the greens/efa group in july 2011. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the water in the danube, including the construction of a new waterway between straubing and vilshofen. this is a particularly valuable nature reserve a habitat for many endangered species. the precious forests there would be completely destroyed by the dams. the commission has already made a number of proposals. commissioner hahn replied to the question in september 2011, but not to all parts of the question. in particular, he did not answer the question: what measures is the commission taking to ensure transparency in the decision-making and implementation bodies and the independence of the expert groups? you know that the people there are fighting for the free flowing danube, so it is crucial to get clarity on which stakeholders could influence the independence of the experts.
the commission has already done so. our strategy for the danube region is a major project which the european union has undertaken in response to a popular initiative. it is precisely this positive involvement of the population in the danube regions that has led to the emergence of this highly active macro-region. the bottom-up approach has now been applied very successfully, in my view, in the design of the danube strategy. the european parliament has been a driving force. in the current implementation phase of the strategy, it is absolutely vital that we continue to support the great will and commitment of the people. the strategy for the danube region must not be left in the dust, but must be implemented in concrete projects, and brought to life, together with the local people. that is why your statement today, commissioner, is so important. the stated aim of the strategy is to create prosperity and employment along the danube. the future of the entire danube region is being shaped sustainably by increasing interconnection, especially through infrastructure and intensive exchanges. the areas of economic and educational cooperation are particularly key for me. cooperation in economic and technical projects and in educational and social measures will benefit the actors along the danube. the aim is to deepen the european-wide approximation of the study system with bachelor's and master's degrees and dual education in the danube region. i think that my state of baden-württemberg is a perfect example of this. i would also like to see the danube strategy and its structural networks embedded in all regional policy measures beyond 2013. commissioner, that is the future of part of the european union!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the need for european solutions and european emergency plans is nowhere more evident than with the european rivers, because they connect european countries. a negative example is the disaster two years ago when toxic sludge from a hungarian aluminium factory flowed into the danube. it was a great demonstration of the importance of cooperation. seamless transport links are also of particular importance. as co-rapporteur for the transeuropean networks, i consider inland waterway transport to be an important mode of transport because it is environmentally friendly and because it still has upward potential. at the same time, we must also meet the emission targets. expansion is not at any price. that means we must put greening and environmental protection at the forefront and at the centre. it has been raised today: one of the last free-flowing stretches of the danube between straubing and vilshofen is such a negative example. i think the environment should be the priority here. the csu environment minister in the bavarian state government has now recognised this. now he has to convince his bavarian prime minister and the federal minister for transport that any investment in further studies is unnecessary, and any investment - i am mentioning here the 16.5 million euros that the commission has also invested in this study - is unfortunately wasted money. it would be better to invest, for example, as my colleague mr theurer has said, in the danube youth centre. that is the direction we should go in the future. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
question for the commissioner: mr president, mr ertug, you said that it was necessary to improve the transport links in inland waterway transport. at the same time, you're addressing the environment. how do you solve this problem in the construction of the danube?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to answer this question. the danube strategy is indeed a contradiction in terms of achieving the objectives of environmental protection on the one hand and supporting the objectives of those who want to destroy the danube on the other. i want to make it clear that it must not be about achieving mobility at any cost. because the ships that are supposed to sail there have to adapt to the rivers, not the other way around. if you put these two objectives side by side, i can imagine that you can achieve the objectives. but the greening is at least as important as the economic component.
ombudsman. − mr president, in good health in the presence of the commissioner for health! i wish to thank you for this opportunity to address you on the subject of my annual report for the year 2011. i would like first of all to say that i am grateful to parliament’s continued support for the work of the european ombudsman. i wish also to express my sincere thanks to the chair of the committee on petitions, ms mazzoni, for her thorough and insightful report on my activities, to which we just listened. as i have repeatedly stated, the support of parliament and the collaboration of the petitions committee are essential contributors to the success of the european ombudsman. let me now turn to the key statistics of the annual report. during 2011 i received a total of 2 510 complaints from citizens, companies, ngos, associations and others. i try to help every complainant who turns to the ombudsman, even in cases when the complaint is not within my mandate. we should not underestimate how important it is for citizens to be guided to the most appropriate complaint-handling mechanism and body from the outset and to be spared the frustrations and delays associated with having to identify the right institution on their own. in january 2009 i launched an interactive guide on my website which is accessible in all 23 official languages. this guide aims to direct complainants to the body best placed to help them, be it my own services, the petitions committee of parliament, the services of national original ombudsmen in the member states, or existing problem-solving mechanisms established by the european commission such as the ‘your europe’ portal or the solvit network for cross-border problems. the number of inadmissible complaints submitted to me continued to decline in 2011, this time by 111. in large part, i attribute this decline to the fact that, by using the interactive guide, more citizens are finding the right address to turn to the first time round. in 2011, more than 18 000 people received advice through the guide. counting the number of requests for information replied to, and complaints that were dealt with, we can say that over 22 000 citizens were directly helped by the ombudsman in 2011. furthermore, the ombudsman’s website received over 295 000 unique visitors. in contrast to the reduction in the number of complaints outside my mandate, the number of inquiries opened in 2011 rose to 396, that is, showed an increase of 18 % (one-eight). this strength confirms that, increasingly, the people turning to the european ombudsman are doing so for the right reasons. the large increase in inquiries opened is also a result of changes i have effected to my own procedures to make them more citizen-friendly. a new type of inquiry was introduced this past year to allow complainants to clarify their complaints in cases where i am not initially convinced that there are grounds to ask an eu institution for its opinion on the case. a sustained reduction in critical remarks issued by my office is further positive evidence that the eu institutions are positively responding to my recommendations and that they are taking a more proactive role in resolving complaints and in enabling win-win outcomes. this is obviously always preferable to the complainant and the institution concerned. over the last three years the number of critical remarks has averaged just above 34, whereas the average was just above 46 in the period 2006-2008. this year i have again included in the annual report the category of ‘star cases’ in order to highlight illustrative examples of exemplary administrative practice by institutions and bodies revealed through my inquiries and, in addition, to emphasise that a central function of the ombudsman institution is to strengthen and deepen a culture of service in the eu institutions and bodies by promoting and supporting best practice. ten such star cases are highlighted in this year’s report. the institutions’ willingness to cooperate with the ombudsman to achieve a satisfactory resolution to complaints constitutes an important expression of their commitment to this culture of service. i also note that, in some of the cases, the constructive engagement of the complainants themselves also proved crucial to obtaining a win-win outcome. according to a special eurobarometer survey on citizens’ rights and on the performance of the eu administration, which was commissioned by the parliament and the ombudsman and was published during 2011, the right to move and reside freely in the eu is considered to be the most important citizen’s right (48 % of respondents). the second most important right is the right to good administration (33 %) followed by the right to complain to the ombudsman (32 %). on the other hand, 42 % of respondents indicated that they are not satisfied with transparency in the eu administration, and 52 % said that the ombudsman should ensure that citizens know their rights and how to use them. making a priority of the policy goal of informing citizens, in march 2011 i held the biggest stakeholder event ever organised by the ombudsman, which was entitled ‘is the lisbon treaty delivering for citizens?’ major speakers in this event included the president of the european council, mr herman van rompuy, the then vice-president of the european parliament, mrs diana wallis, and the vice-president of the european commission, mrs viviane reding. i also published, in 2011, a booklet entitled ‘problems with the eu? who can help you?’ this new publication provides information on a whole range of problem-solving mechanisms available to individuals who face problems with the eu. i note that the demand for this booklet has been higher than for any other publication in the entire history of the ombudsman. in view of the level of dissatisfaction with transparency in the eu, i used the occasion provided by the celebration of ‘international right to know day’ on 28 september to call upon the eu administration to be more proactive as regards transparency. in that context i called on the eu institutions to adopt useful, citizen-friendly online registers of documents. furthermore, as regards my own services, in early 2011 i began publishing, on my website, information on new inquiries as soon as they are opened. this new practice makes it easier for citizens to follow the progress of inquiries right from the start. in 2009 i adopted a mission statement for the european ombudsman institution which reads as follows: the european ombudsman seeks fair outcomes to complaints against european union institutions, encourages transparency and promotes an administrative culture of service. he aims to build trust through dialogue between citizens and the european union and to foster the highest standards of behaviour in the union’s institutions. in order best to implement this mission statement, in 2010 i developed and adopted a strategy for the institution which forms the basis of my initiatives and activities during my current mandate as ombudsman. key points of this strategy include: first, strengthening the ongoing dialogue with complainants, civil society and other stakeholders in line with central commitments enshrined in the treaty of lisbon; second, identifying best practices from ombudsman colleagues through, amongst others, cooperation in the european network of ombudsmen; and third, enhancing the ombudsman’s role in promoting an administrative culture of service in the eu institutions. in order consistently to deliver good administration – a key component of being citizen-friendly – institutions and bodies need to nourish and nurture a culture of service to citizens. a body which seeks to promote such a culture of service will encourage the members of its staff not only to respect good administration as a legal right but also to be polite, helpful and cooperative in dealing with citizens, willing to explain their activities and the reasoning behind decisions taken and ready to accept public scrutiny of their conduct. with these considerations in mind, i concluded that it would be useful to produce a concise statement of these and other public service principles which could help promote citizens’ trust in the european civil service and the eu institutions. the public service principles were published on 19 june this year and are contained in a very small leaflet, which is this one. allow me to mention them briefly. one: commitment to the european union and its citizens; two: integrity; three: objectivity; four: respect for others; five: transparency. i am grateful to dg personnel for having distributed the principles to everyone working within parliament on 4 october. president, honourable members, as i have repeatedly indicated, this statement of pubic service principles is neither the first nor the last word about the ethical standards that apply to the eu civil service. as the submissions to the public consultation made clear, the staff regulations, the financial regulation and the ombudsman’s widely-adopted european code of good administrative behaviour already embody such standards, both explicitly and implicitly. furthermore, the idea of producing a statement of pubic service principles was not to develop new ethical standards but rather to make clear the expectations of both civil servants and citizens for making an everyday reality of the ethical standards to which the eu public administration already adheres. the added value of making the standards explicit is to help generate and focus a continuous, constructive discussion among civil servants and between civil servants and the public about what behaviour is ethically appropriate. the public consultation demonstrated the value of such a debate. the principles do not seek to duplicate existing instruments or to be a substitute for revisiting, revising and supplementing those instruments where that may be necessary. rather i expect them to be a rich source of ideas on which i will draw in working with the institutions of the eu in the future to encourage and nurture the institutional culture that makes the principles a living reality.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes mrs mazzoni’s very comprehensive and informative report. i would like to congratulate her and the committee on petitions on this very important piece of work. as the ombudsman reported himself, it offers a clear and exhaustive overview of the ombudsman’s activities for the past year and represents a very useful tool for the other institutions as well. both reports remind us very clearly of our common goal, which is to ensure open, efficient and independent european administration for our citizens. i would also like to thank mr diamandouros personally for his excellent cooperation and for his assistance in enabling us to do our job better. his insights and suggestions are always very welcome, and i appreciate the very fruitful contact on a political and also on a service level. several figures have been offered and proposed by mrs mazzoni and also by mr diamandouros, but allow me also to bring in some of our own. the fact is that the ombudsman’s enquiries continue to be focused mostly on the european commission, of which they represented 58 % in 2011, which is a little bit less than in 2010, when the figure was 65 %. i also agree with the conclusions of mrs mazzoni’s report that to a great extent it is natural for the european commission to be the principal addressee of the enquiries as it is the biggest institution, with executive powers. how have the complaints and cases been handled by the european ombudsman? the european commission had 365 replies to the ombudsman in 2011 in comparison with 375 in 2010. we are very much aware of the importance of friendly solutions and we strive to achieve, if possible, a win-win situation. both reports conclude that there was a positive upward trend in this direction. we would also like to note that the number of critical remarks received by the commission has steadily decreased since 2007. in 2011 they represented 11 % of all the enquiries closed. it is very important to mention that in 2011 the commission sent 25 replies to the european ombudsman’s critical remarks, and the commission totally or partially agreed with the ombudsman in 18 cases, which represents a considerable share of the total – 72 %. on top of this, the number of informal procedures handled in 2011 was 99, which is also a substantial increase compared to previous years. in such cases the ombudsman asks the commission to reply directly to citizens without analysing the substance of the reply. i would also like to thank the ombudsman for holding conferences and for organising very broad public consultations on public service principles, to which we also contributed through the written contribution of the president of the commission, mr barroso. i would like also to confirm that we value and apply those principles. even if the staff regulations already impose the strongest of rules for eu officials and the commission is committed to the highest ethical values which guide its administration in contacts with the public and respects the code of good administrative conduct, we will also apply these principles across the commission. they have been distributed to all our officials and have been posted on our internal and external websites. allow me to conclude by stressing once again that the commission looks forward very much to continuing the useful and very fruitful cooperation with the ombudsman, parliament and the petitions committee.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr diamandouros, you are very welcome. first of all, i would like to thank the european ombudsman for his good work and in particular for the good cooperation with the committee on petitions. the figures you mention in your annual report speak for themselves: in 2011, 2 510 complaints were registered and 2 544 were dealt with. i was also impressed by the relatively small number of inadmissible complaints, because we are still fighting for a better relationship in the committee on petitions. so congratulations on that number, too! the figures are proof to me that the institution of the european ombudsman is an important building block for transparency and democratic control in the european union. the ombudsman is the point of contact for people in the european union who feel they have been treated unfairly by european institutions. in this way, the ombudsman also makes a major contribution to making europe more tangible and understandable for our citizens. it is important to note that the ombudsman is not a toothless tiger: here, the demand is persistent and not given up, even if the process takes longer. i do not want to say that the commission is afraid of the ombudsman, but we do respect each other. this is a good way of working, and one that can be maintained. i am particularly pleased that the cooperation between the committee on petitions and the ombudsman is working so smoothly. the right to petition and the right to complain to the ombudsman are complementary instruments, or so it is written. normally, in politics, one knows that complementary instruments could also be a point of contention for competence. we do not have the committee on petitions and the ombudsman. we could say that our common working motto could be: in case of doubt, for the citizens of the european union. and that's a good thing! mr diamondouros, i hope that we can continue this good work together, and of course, nothing is so good that it cannot be improved in that sense, i wish us good cooperation!
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, while russia and the european union enjoy a very intertwined and intense relationship and today we are not only neighbours, but fortunately we are friends, the liberals and democrats also welcome the accession of russia to the wto after eighteen years of negotiations. it was high time indeed. i think it is good news for russia but also for the european union. why? because we can hope for a relationship based on clear rules and clear applicability. if we look at what happened to china after it joined the wto, we can see that the growth and the success story of china really began with that date a few years ago. so i hope this will happen for russia as well and that russia can also envisage an extreme success story after the significant date in august this year. but i would also like to raise two concerns, two challenges. one has already been mentioned by mr sefčovič and other colleagues, and that is that russia does not seem to be willing to live up 100 % to its obligations which come with the accession to the wto but is instead undertaking some extensive and potentially restrictive trade measures like the examples which have already been mentioned. the second point i would like to make is that we have to look at the business environment in russia. russia has always been a very proud nation with a rich culture, with inventions and esprit; nobel prize winners and astronauts have come from russia. we all know about these important landmarks in russian history. but why is it that today – apart from maybe vodka, caviar and gazprom – we do not really know of any russian brands? why is it that they do not really thrive? why are there not russian success stories? i think this has to do with the applicability of the rule of law and human rights, and i think it is good that it has been raised in our resolution. it comes in a timely manner, because next week we go to moscow and can discuss it there.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. when we are dealing today with the accession of the russian federation to the wto - and this is not the first time - it is too often overlooked that trade with the russian federation is, and will remain, of strategic importance for europe in terms of its dimension and its orientation. i would like to refer specifically to the report by mr robert sturdy today, because it examines the state of relations with the russian federation from an economic point of view and, after years of negotiations, takes as a reference point russia's accession to the wto. i am grateful to the permanent rapporteur on trade relations with the russian federation for not letting himself be carried away by disturbing news of social conflicts, ever new arbitrariness on the part of the authorities and new ambivalent laws in russia, but for remaining sober on the facts. there are areas of policy which cannot be subordinated to the logic and dynamics of foreign policy. we have discussed this here on several occasions. we in parliament should also, with regard to economic cooperation and trade relations, give them a political shape, independent of political circumstances. i welcome the recent commitment of the commission representatives here in parliament to ensure the stability of this relationship, and to give concrete expression to the russian leadership in modernising the country and its interest in having the eu as a partner. one of the great lessons of the earlier confrontation in europe is that rapprochement brings change. but 21st century rapprochement will only work if we are on the same level and if we work together. trade is not a tool for this, but it is precisely this effect that it produces. this change, which we consider to be the right one, as does the continuation of economic cooperation, should be aimed at a development towards greater social justice, less poverty, more democracy, and of course more rule of law and thus respect for human rights. we know that the rule of law cannot exist without democracy - or vice versa. but there is no more democracy without more social justice, more enforcement of trade union rights, more internationally agreed labour standards, environmental standards, etc. this is particularly true of the serious consideration of the medium-term effects of the accession of the russian federation to the wto on jobs in industry, services and elsewhere, which are certainly not easy to control. i think we should also consider the trade barriers. what is really hindering trade with russia at the moment is not just trade barriers as we define them, but also the issue of the continued visa requirement. the declarations made at the eu-russia summits on this subject are well-read, but have so far produced nothing in substance. we should change that!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. wto membership can certainly help the much needed modernisation of the russian economy: facilitating technology transfer, increasing investment security - these are just two examples. it is only two years since russia entered into a partnership for modernisation with the eu for the same reasons, and the stated objectives of this partnership include the approximation of technical standards, the expansion of investment opportunities in key sectors for innovation and growth, and also the general deepening of trade relations - all of which is confirmed by accession to the wto. but full membership of the wto may only give russia a greater say in other international bodies. russia will only benefit from membership if it actually implements the joint agreement on trade facilitation. a partnership with the eu for modernisation only makes sense if russia also respects its wto obligations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu has worked hard to ensure that russia finally becomes a member of the world trade organisation. we will continue to be a reliable partner for our russian friends. but it can't work as a one-way street. the joint project which has been in progress for so long, namely the joint partnership agreement, can now be facilitated at some point by accession to the wto, because the rules of the game no longer need to be negotiated, they are fixed. but there are two conditions. the european union must not want to interfere in this.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, belarus held parliamentary elections on 23 september. it will not come as a surprise to this house to hear me state my disappointment at the way they were conducted. the day after the election, the high representative and vice-president ashton and i issued a joint statement expressing the european union’s regret that belarus had missed yet another opportunity to hold elections in line with international standards. we therefore share the assessment of this house, expressed both in the statement by president schultz, chairman brok and other members of the european parliament, regretting the undemocratic nature of the parliamentary elections. this assessment is also reflected in last week’s council’s conclusions and, i expect, will also be mirrored in your resolution. according to the assessment of the osce election observation mission: ‘many osce commitments were not respected, despite some improvements to the electoral law’. it also notes that ‘while there was an increase in the number of candidates put forward by parties, prominent political figures who might have played a role in this context remained imprisoned or were not eligible to register due to their [so-called] criminal record’ – ‘so-called’ was my addition. our assessment of internal developments in belarus remains pessimistic; things are not getting better, and the grip on civil society is being tightened. there is no sign of willingness by the belarusian authorities to address our core concerns: respect for human rights, the rule of law and democratic principles. last week the council adopted conclusions and decisions regarding the review of restrictive measures: the so-called rollover of the existing sanctions. both express our concern about the internal situation in belarus as well as the state of play of the european union’s bilateral relations with the country. the outcome of the foreign affairs council also confirms the continuity of our established and consensus-based policy, namely the will to continue our policy of critical engagement and call for the immediate release and rehabilitation of all political prisoners and the discontinuation of restrictive measures, while at the same time reaching out to belarusian society. in the current situation, where there are few signs of progress from minsk, we can, however, look at how to invest in the future and, at the same time, how to keep technical and diplomatic communication channels between the european union and belarus open. we have an interest in keeping a working relationship with minsk. technical dialogues and cooperation continue with the belarusian administration, and we are keeping the country engaged within the multilateral track of the eastern partnership. the main drive behind our policy is our commitment to strengthening engagement with the belarusian people and civil society. it remains an essential aspect of investing in the future of belarus. we must continue our engagement with belarusian society as a whole, promoting people-to-people contacts. we are not trying to isolate the belarusian people. it is particularly regrettable that the authorities are not taking up our offer to negotiate visa facilitation and readmission agreements between the european union and belarus. however, the member states are striving to make optimal use of the flexibilities offered by the visa code to waive and reduce visa fees for some categories of belarusian citizens or in individual cases. the european message should be brought to as many ordinary belarusians as possible, including through our assistance projects. this is a priority. the european dialogue on modernisation with belarusian society is an important part of this engagement and an essential aspect of our policy, providing a rare positive element in this overall sombre picture. the participation of the belarusian authorities in the dialogue is an issue. it is needed because their absence raises questions about the viability of the dialogue. from our side, we continue to stress to the administration that we would welcome their constructive participation at technical level. our financial assistance to civil society has increased five-fold since the 2010 post-electoral crackdown and clearly this cooperation still has great potential. let me also inform you that we are currently looking at how to further rebalance and better target our aid for civil society. in conclusion, and while fully acknowledging the challenges we face, we believe that the european union is following a balanced approach which will allow us to have an impact on developments in belarus and enhance the prospects for future eu-belarus cooperation. i look forward very much to hearing your views.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. 92.72727% is the result of the recent parliamentary elections, which was hailed by the presidential camp of lukashenko. besides, everything is as it was and as we have seen. the elections observers will give their detailed opinion on the obviously unfree and unfair nature of the elections, we will adopt our resolution, the council will add a little more sanctions or extend the existing ones. beyond the bayou, the new parliament will continue to be free of opposition and therefore free of criticism and correction, those who want belarus to be different from what it is today will continue to be excluded, persecuted or imprisoned. the daily life of citizens remains subject to the arbitrariness of politics and the greed of the oligarchs. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i don't think anyone expected a different result or a change in developments in belarus. but if that is so, then i must renew my doubts, which i have already expressed on several occasions. sanctions do not seem to be an appropriate means. they have not made any serious impact in the past either in belarus or elsewhere. mr füle, you have again informed us of the current activities with regard to belarus. we also see much of it as useful, such as the direct approach to civil society, which is called the european dialogue on modernisation. the problem with these activities is that they do not reach out to belarusian citizens in their concrete life situations as consumers and workers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but if the problems of social justice that need to be solved on both sides of the aisle are not addressed in these rounds, the undisputed basis of the autocratic system in belarus will hardly be shaken. finally, a final point: in the period of confrontation in europe, it was extremely important that, despite all the criticism of the respective rulers, there was a thread of communication. historically, we have moved from sanctions to dialogue. today, it seems to me, we are moving in reverse. in view of the obvious ineffectiveness of this policy, the question remains: what do we do the day after when everything is exhausted, all the thumbs are turned? i prefer to continue to confront the political leaders in belarus with our arguments and demands in political dialogue. this requires that the eu member states abandon their contradictory policies. sanctions against repressive states are incompatible with the training of the repressive apparatus of the same state!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am sorry that i was delayed by a traffic jam and could not be here in time for this debate. i would ask you to give me one and a half minutes for my group. we have seen another election in belarus, the parliamentary election, which was not an election at all. what was really new was president lukashenko's cynical recommendation that europe could cut a slice of this election manipulation. fortunately, such hubris is temporary, even though this dictator - like the one in north korea - is already running his youngest son for the throne. i have my doubts, however, about whether lukashenko is really the last dictator in europe, given what is happening in moscow. unfortunately, the ten seats in the euronest interparliamentary assembly will remain unfilled because we will not tolerate the representatives of an illegitimate parliament in our midst. the foreign ministers have extended the sanctions against the regime, that is right. we should be careful not to undermine these measures. there are about a dozen well-known straw men who, through private companies and shell companies, obtain foreign currency and organize exports and foreign investments, the proceeds of which flow to the dictator. we should therefore decide to make it easier for the population to obtain visas and travel, as opposed to the entry ban for the regime's supporters. the prestige and appeal of the eu, which has won the nobel peace prize, will not fail to have an impact in belarus. but we should refrain from giving the thugs of lukashenko a lesson in how to break up mass demonstrations, as has happened in germany. the soft power we can exercise should in future include targeted economic sanctions. and that starts with the fact that lufthansa will no longer wait for lukashenko's government plane.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. it is 30 years since i first visited the gulf states and also the united arab emirates. and this region had to travel a path in 30 years that was longer than britain's path from richard the lionheart to the 21st century. so i don't think we're going to get anywhere with ideological answers. we must bring fairness to this region. it's a fact that the gulf states, and the united arab emirates in particular, have some of the fairest governments in the region. but of course we must criticize human rights violations where they exist. that is why we are calling for the release of political prisoners, and for the reopening of the konrad adenauer foundation, for example. we are critical, but we cannot make unfair demands on the general policy in an emergency. so we say very clearly: we want to reduce this urgency to its human rights core and we offer the uae a fair human rights partnership. we are not against this region. we are the fair partners of this region. we are critical, but we recognize the enormous distance these countries have travelled and still have to travel!
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. the policy of land redistribution in cambodia is characterized by injustice and arbitrariness. in the last ten years, at least 400 000 people have lost their country of origin or have been forced to leave it. prime minister hun sen has promised this year to change this unfair land distribution, but there is a lack of confidence in the government to act accordingly. there are new cases of abuse, and the old, problematic expropriation cases are still going on. we call on the cambodian government to put an end to this unfair land distribution practice and in particular to review and, if necessary, withdraw the land allocation to the more than 200 companies. the european union has a duty to help the victims of the holocaust, and to help the victims of the holocaust. we demand the immediate release of all land rights activists in cambodia! agro-industrial companies, which have benefited from this deeply unfair land-grant policy, are also selling their goods to the eu. the commission is urged to investigate and respond independently to all human rights violations in this area.
i have the honor to announce that the sakharov prize for freedom of thought for 2012 will be awarded to the following individuals: mrs nasrin sotudeh and mr jafar panahi of iran have been honoured by the conference of presidents, acting unanimously on behalf of all of you. (applause from the centre) we are also expressing our solidarity and our admiration for a man and a woman who both refused to bow to the fear and intimidation in iran and decided to put the fate of their country above their own personal fate. nasrin sotudeh has been at the forefront of legal protection for human rights defenders, journalists and opposition activists. for this courageous and generous act, she was taken from her family and sentenced to 11 years on charges including propaganda against the state and attacks on national security. ladies and gentlemen, if the fight for freedom, if the fight for human rights, for personal dignity, for freedom from torture and the death penalty, for freedom of expression and for justice in criminal proceedings is an attack on national security, then we support these people in attacking the national security of a regime that respects none of these fundamental rights. the price for mrs sotudeh is also a clear rejection of the regime in iran. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, jafar panahi is one of the most famous and internationally acclaimed iranian film directors. his films are vivid portraits of a complex, rich and beautiful country and its people. as in any good portrait, this man represents not only the merits but also the contradictions and the everyday problems of the iranians. but clearly, state regimes fear nothing more than the depiction of the bitter reality that reigns in the countries. so people like mr panahi have to be silenced in such regimes. both mrs sotudeh and mr panahi stand for everything that the european union stands for. and we tell them loud and clear: you are not alone! and i sincerely hope that in december they will be able to come to strasbourg to our house in person to receive their prize. and i call on the iranian authorities to do everything possible to make this happen. i would like to thank all the members of this house who have helped to organise this year's sakharov prize. i would like to say again, ladies and gentlemen, that i have been in this house since 1994 and have been involved in all the sakharov prizes since 1994 in various capacities: i have never seen the conference of presidents unanimously award the sakharov prize without any other proposal! it took about three minutes this morning to make that decision, and i remember other debates we had. this shows, ladies and gentlemen, that there is an overwhelming desire in this house to honour mrs sotudeh and mr panahi. once again, my warm congratulations to the winners! (applause from the centre)
thank you very much, mr. callanan. that is not on the agenda. the conference of presidents decided on this delegation. the conference of presidents also decided a few minutes ago - it would have been nice if you had added that - that this delegation should travel. she's to take congratulatory letters to be given to the two prizewinners. if the iranian authorities prevent our delegation from doing so, it will either not travel or cancel the visit immediately. that was just decided by the conference of presidents. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to comment that we in the human rights committee have been repeatedly asked by activists from iran to travel to the country and support the people who are fighting against the regime there.
ladies and gentlemen, the conference of presidents has decided what i have just told you. it is of course good to have a short effect, but what you have presented is not quite correct, mr callanan. but now the matter has been settled in the interests of the house.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you for your broad support. i would ask that the final vote not be held but that the report be referred back to committee so that we can enter into trilogue as soon as the council is able to take a decision and negotiate.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. again, thank you for your support. again, i'm asking for a referral back to record the trilogy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think we had a good debate yesterday on the european ombudsman's report for 2011. it also shows - and this is very important - that people in the european union are increasingly turning to this place. what was very important for me was that it also became clear that we have a good integration, a good combination between the european ombudsman and the committee on petitions of the european parliament. both are mutually dependent, both complement each other. whereas in politics one usually suspects conflicts of competence, this is not the case. i can say, at least for this term, that we complement each other wonderfully, that we help each other. the two institutions are not, if you will, concerned with competence but with citizens. if it stays that way, it can really be a good success story for european citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course, the market can do many things, but not everything. above all, it goes wrong when we have a market without rules. we have unfortunately seen this very clearly in the financial market. there was no rules. in the past, people have taken a little comfort in this and said, "what do we care about the stock market? what do we care about the financial market? it's not like it's the real economy. it's not about the state budget. we all had to realize, with great pain, that when there are failures, failures or bankruptcies in this sector, this naturally has an impact on the real economy and also on the national budget, because in the end we are all in the same boat. that is why it is very important that we finally come to the point of setting political reductions and rules of the game. i think this is an important first step in the right direction, and there are others to follow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have already said that i regard the reports as a very important step in the right direction and that is why i could agree with them. we have to make sure that the commission is prepared to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission is able to make a proper assessment of the situation. i am of course also one of those colleagues who say that we need to regulate even more. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. but i was happy to accept it because it is a first step, a very important step in the right direction.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was happy to agree to this, because it is ultimately not just a question of developing rules of the game in the financial markets, but also of developing rules of the game so that we can keep public debt under control, establish an early warning system and clarify the question of how countries communicate with each other and how the european union then acts against financial offenders. i would like to say to the honourable members who were not satisfied that no regulation, no directive, no motion for a resolution is so good that it cannot be improved. we are at the beginning of the road here too. but if you don't start on a path, you'll never get to the end. that is why i voted very easily for this report.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 26 october 2012.
i welcome you once again to our november plenary session, which i can open today with good news for us all: yesterday hundreds of kurdish prisoners in turkish prisons ended their hunger strike. i'm relieved that this operation was terminated after 67 days before it would have cost lives. as you know, i wrote to the turkish minister of justice asking him to take up the concerns of the hunger strikers. i expressly welcome the fact that the turkish government has complied with the demand of the hunger strikers and that the kurdish language is being allowed in schools and in court. it has thus at least partially complied with the demands, and it has introduced a draft law on the use of the kurdish language in court proceedings in parliament. this is an important step towards us, too, because this is a very longstanding and old demand of the european parliament. ladies and gentlemen, i am deeply shocked, as i am sure all of you are, to hear of the deaths of palestinian and israeli civilians. on behalf of this house, i condemn in the strongest terms the escalation of violence between hamas and israel. i am very impressed by the fact that the european parliament has been able to take part in the debate on the situation in the middle east. it is always the civilians on both sides who pay the highest price for this vicious cycle of attack and retaliation. the european parliament supports all diplomatic efforts to achieve an immediate ceasefire. i would therefore like to remind you that there will be a debate on the situation in the middle east in the plenary on wednesday afternoon.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting of 15 november 2012 in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday:
madam president, that certainly has nothing to do with the agenda. i am deeply saddened by the death of mrs savita halappanavar, but i am sure you will understand that in my capacity as president of this house i cannot comment on the legal investigation currently under way. i think the house's reaction has shown the house's position on this matter and you can be sure that the european parliament will be following the developments with the greatest attention. tuesday:the epp group has asked that the debate on the oral question on the steel industry in the european union, scheduled for tuesday afternoon, be closed by the tabling of motions for resolutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think it is absolutely right that we in the itre committee have agreed to put this issue on the agenda. but i do not see the point in postponing for a month the matter whose urgency has been stressed by both colleagues. if you think that the drafting of a resolution will solve the problems, then i do not know whether i can share that view, to put it quite diplomatically. i think we should make it a public issue. this is our contribution and we will certainly be returning to it in the future. but to postpone the matter because of a resolution is not to underline the urgency but is rather a self-referential attitude of parliament.
if i understand correctly, mrs sartori does not want the debate, but only the vote on the resolution to be postponed until december. so we are supposed to have a debate now, but the resolution will be adopted in the december plenary. (parliament adopted the resolution)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my group also considers it necessary to combine the debate on the statement which the council will make on the situation in the middle east with a resolution next wednesday. we believe that this is a way of giving lady ashton a hand in starting what we as the european parliament want, and at the same time a way in which the european union, as the nobel peace prize winner, can take action to calm the situation in the middle east and help save lives.
i think the situation is clear: the cohn-bendit and zimmer motions for a resolution provide that both the debate and the vote on the resolution take place in this plenary session. (parliament adopted the resolution) (the agenda is therefore adopted.) other amendments to the agenda: see minutes.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr tadeusz zwiefka, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters (recast) (com ((2010) 0748 c7-0433/2010 2010/0383 cod)) (a7-0320/2012).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work on this report. i think that this is where we really need to start when it comes to the fight against terrorism: instead of looking into the everyday lives of all people, i think it is right - and this is where this proposal starts - to see the risk where the risk of attacks, of crime, actually arises. and that is certainly where we are dealing with weapons, for example, but also where we are dealing with explosive substances like the ones we are talking about today. it is right to start at this point and say that not everyone needs unhindered access to certain chemicals to be used for explosive bomb materials at all times, but access can be restricted just as we have access to weapons and it can be documented. i think it is not a big problem to say that if you buy these substances, you must also be able to say: i need these substances for further processing, or at least i register for them. on the other hand, of course, we must ensure that there are certain groups - as mrs corazza bildt has also said - who are not constantly prevented from buying smaller quantities of such substances for other purposes. it may also be important to ensure that not everyone is covered by these provisions in the same way, but it is absolutely right to introduce a safety system for such substances; it is also right to ask for it and then collect data. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but to come back to that, i think it's the right way to take risks. i would be glad if we did the same in other areas, if we were to reduce possibilities for those who want to commit terrorist acts or become criminals, and if we were to respond, so to speak, on a case-by-case basis and not with excessive surveillance. this is the wrong way. this is a positive example and i therefore want to give it my full support as it stands. we greens support this measure and are pleased that it can now be concluded.
that concludes this point. on the other hand, i hear that the later the evening, the more beautiful the guests, we can move mr watson, who is still on the list, in for a minute before we move on to the next item on the agenda.
that is the end of the matter.
the next item is the summary of the report by sampo terho on 'an integrated european market for card, internet and mobile payments' (a7-0304/2012) (com (2012) 040).
that concludes this point. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr saïd el khadraoui on shadow banking [2012/2115 (ini) ] (a7-0354/2012).
that concludes this point. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by silvia costa on the protection of children in the digital world [2012/2068 (ini) ] (a7-0353/2012).
the point has been closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12:00. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. this report deals with the implementation of the consumer credit directive. it was adopted by a large majority here in parliament in 2008 and deals mainly with loans between eur 200 and eur 75 000. the main objectives of the programme are: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a dispute between the commission and the member states. the level of consumer protection has been considerably increased by the partial final harmonisation of some essential parts of credit law in europe. in contrast, the increase in crossborder consumer credit is rather insignificant: less than 2%, of which 20% is online. this may be because few financial institutions offer cross-border consumer credit, the financial crisis has weakened the market and legal problems seem to be less of an obstacle than the lack of personal contacts with the financial institution. a particular problem was the two-year implementation period. the procedure is extremely complex and has required implementation by both the national legislator and the financial institutions. perhaps the time was too short; in future, the implementation period should be set at three years. the content of some provisions of the directive has been called into question. i will give the example of the location information sheet as the basis for the consumer's pre-contractual information. the information sheet was criticized by some as being too large and difficult to understand. i will give another example of the calculation of the annual effective rate. the commission has indeed provided guidelines, but they are not legally binding in the sense of a law. it is desirable that the rules should be applied in the same way in all legal instruments. i would like to mention the time limit for the consumer to lodge an objection. there were problems here when the deadline starts running. the commission identified implementation problems in a review of 562 consumer credit websites (sweep) carried out in 2011. in summary, the directive is an important building block for consumer protection in europe. the commission should now examine the implementation in detail and urge the correct application in the member states. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take part in the negotiations on the new rules. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to ensure that the directive is implemented. these were the main points of my report. the report has been the subject of 29 amendments. i would like to take this opportunity to express my thanks to the shadow rapporteurs for the open and, i believe, very fair and very open discussion on the amendments. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, but i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we could not accept applications which went beyond the scope of the directive and thus gave the impression of an audit or were to be classified in the other areas - mortgage credit or financial market supervision. but i am deeply convinced that we need a stable framework. if it is true that less than 2% of crossborder loans have been used, then i think it is imperative not to think about new, different, more far-reaching arrangements now, but to implement the existing arrangements first. we should wait for a trial period. it is the only way for the banks to know what to do, the only way for consumers to see what they can trust. i am sure that we will have a chance to go beyond the 2% range.
in writing. when the vote on the own-initiative report on a social investment pact takes place tomorrow, it will be clear whether there is at last a cross-party awareness of how we must deal with the crisis. our common response must not be just austerity but targeted action to achieve the europe 2020 goals. we can achieve these goals, but it will not happen by itself. if we want more jobs, we must also give our economy the means to employ more people. between 2008 and 2011, production in europe decreased from 20% to 16%. this was followed by a corresponding decline in employment of 11%. on the one hand, this means that we must invest in the places where jobs must be created again. but in the longer term, it also means that we need to pay particular attention to the nature of these jobs: jobs that are sustainable and that provide decent employment. the crisis must not be an excuse for low wages and social dumping! the european union's economic policy must finally be complemented by a balancing social policy. we in the european parliament must stand united behind the interests of the people of europe. i call on members to take an active role in ensuring that european workers regain their right to good work!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. what goes around comes around, that's all i can say. the report on the type-approval of l-category vehicles has finally become a good report. the work as a whole has taken longer than we all thought, and above all, than we had hoped. and there were many more pitfalls than we would have liked. but i would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mr van de camp, once again, for the really cooperative and good cooperation. the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and i am sure that the commission will do its utmost to ensure that the proposals are implemented. as rapporteur for my group, i recommend that we approve this report. still, he could have been a lot better. and by better, i mean safer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of motor vehicles is not compromised. the number of motorcycle accidents has remained constant for years. the number of deaths in europe is generally declining, except in the case of motorcycle accidents. reducing the number of motorcyclists and scooters killed is indeed a matter of my heart. less deaths on europe's roads, that was and is my goal. every dead one is one too many. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. i am still convinced that this can be done by means of effective anti-lock braking technology, i.e. abs. and i'm equally convinced of cost-effectiveness. it's not true that abs is too expensive. we have nevertheless achieved that from 2016 all new and from 2017 all existing types of motorcycles with a capacity of 125 cm3 or more must be equipped with abs by the manufacturer. motor scooters may be equipped by the manufacturers with abs or the combined braking systems. i am sorry to say that we have not succeeded in improving the commission's proposal on this point. i would have liked to have done more, but the commission and the member states have been very slow to act. we have nevertheless succeeded in getting the commission to present a report in 2019. the report shall be fed with road accident data from the member states and shall examine the mandatory fitting of abs for motor scooters. it shall also be sent to parliament and the council. the commission will then consider making the fitting of abs in scooters compulsory on the basis of this report. you see, the subject remains very much alive. therefore, we will try to close the legislative gap from 2019. i'm sure the data i've collected will prove me right. i am convinced that this is indeed a good day for the two-wheeler drivers in europe and that the number of accidents will decrease in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would also like to thank mrs thyssen, the rapporteur, and the whole of parliament, which has worked very well together on this report. both this cooperation and the report itself and its content - when compared with the van rompuy paper - show how necessary it is for parliament to be involved in these issues. we're at a road sign. we are no longer just fighting fires, we are no longer just firefighters, but we are now shaping the architecture of the new common europe, of economic and monetary union, but also of how europe should go in the future. we must be very clear that this europe has a downside in that we have placed a very one-sided emphasis on freedom. i am a fervent defender of freedom, but we have neglected equality, democracy and social issues in europe. we must urgently create more democracy in europe and we must urgently do something to increase solidarity in europe, between the states and among themselves. i believe that this can only be achieved if we involve parliament and the citizens more closely. the future of europe is not in the hands of a few institutions, the presidents of the presidents. the future of europe and the question of whether this continent will emerge from the crisis together depend on whether its citizens see this as their europe and their task. we will only succeed in this if we involve the citizens through a democratic convention, through referendums on the outcome of this convention and by making it clear that this europe is not about us, not about the institutions, but about you, about all of us, about our future in a common europe!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. two brief remarks on the report: first of all, i think it is right and good that the european parliament should use this report to contribute to the debate on economic and monetary union. i am not saying that the council should be left to decide on this matter. the council has so far proved to be more a stronghold of nationalism than a place for european solutions in dealing with crises. secondly, economic and monetary union is not enough. in the wake of the crisis, many citizens have seen the work of the european union, parliament, the commission and the council as a support for the banks. whether this is always the case is a matter of opinion, but this is the experience of many citizens: the banks are being supported, while at the same time the social situation of many citizens is becoming more and more precarious. it is not enough to simply talk about prosperity, as the council's spokesman has done. the european union must be a social union which guarantees social rights to all its citizens. if we fail to do so, the eu will lose the support of its citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report by mrs thyssen is a considerable amount of work, but it is not a critical review, but - let me say this - a non-binding wish list for the commission. the convergence in this report, which many have called for and which mr barnier has again emphasized, leaves many questions open. why is this time pressure being exerted here and in the legislative process without an intensive discussion of issues such as deposit insurance, eurobonds, debt-servicing funds or the ecb? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the banking union, which is an essential part of the recommendations, is destroying the internal market for financial services, endangering the independence of the ecb and clearly violating subsidiarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in my opinion - and here i share the views of mr hafner and, in part, mr klute - treaty changes are necessary to deepen the european union - legally sound, not rushed, but well thought out, drawn up in a convention - and not decisions under time pressure, which are aimed solely at remedying national failures in the banking sector, as in spain, ireland, belgium and france, by means of the european rescue mechanism. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i should like to thank mrs thyssen for her very detailed and, in most respects, balanced report. we have known for some time that the eurozone can only succeed in the long term if it deepens its integration and becomes a genuine economic, financial and monetary union. what this means in detail and what measures need to be taken is clear from the report proposed by mr rompuy this summer. this report was drawn up by four presidents. we are not talking about the president of the european parliament, mr martin schulz, who is the representative of our house. that shows me how little the council really appreciates our house. this is also evident from the fact that the council is now trying to push through a very important matter, namely the introduction of a system of banking supervision with strong powers at the european central bank, where parliament has been given only a marginal role. i do not think that this is in keeping with the spirit of the lisbon treaty and i believe that this council policy towards parliament is doomed to failure in the long term.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. the proposals of the crisis committee, which are now being taken up in part by the council, were not commented on in any way by the council at the time the report was presented, let alone adopted.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr louca, you have stressed the importance of this house in the further development of economic and monetary union. i would therefore like to refer to paragraph 8 of the report we are adopting today. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will not be able to accept it. nine months ago this house passed a major part of the banking union, the deposit guarantee legislation, at first reading. it is now up to the council to react to this and to find a common position. the council has been sleeping here for nine months. the council has been inactive for nine months and you, mr louca, as president of the council of cyprus, have done nothing, absolutely nothing, in four and a half months to the european parliament to bring this legislation forward. we have promised the european taxpayer that future crises should not be borne by him but by the banks themselves. if we are now seeking to implement supervision quickly, we shall use the esm here. taxpayers' money too! a safe deposit box, a safe fund for the reorganization and resolution of banks - these are funds that relieve the taxpayer. i would like to see the same enthusiasm for this fund, the same enthusiasm for this fund. they are measured by the european taxpayer, but also by this house.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my question is again about what you have just said: employment and growth. what you've presented here so far are just old concepts. and you mentioned the green economy only in passing. but if we look at the europe 2020 strategy, the objectives of the european union are employment, sustainability and quality growth. in fact, it is the only way we can compete internationally. there is a european parliament initiative on green jobs which has shown where there is employment potential and what measures are needed. my question is: how do you use these proposals from the european parliament? what concrete approaches and incentives do you intend to put in place in european union legislation to promote the ecological conversion of the economy?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my supplementary question to mr andor: the new proposals from the commission provide for the possibility of making investment priorities into green jobs within the framework of the esf. but since you have given the member states the obligation to limit the investment priorities in other areas of the esf, it may happen that the member states do not use this proposal for investment priorities at all, that is, they do not vote for it at all. what are you doing to prevent that?
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, as regards the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs, i intend to go ahead. there is still no agreement on the financial perspective or the 2013 budget, but i intend to continue to propose this programme and to defend the financial instrument for its development, because i consider it to be of extraordinary importance and also the key to launching the policy in favour of european entrepreneurship, which is why we are also in full debate on this front and the support we will receive from parliament will be invaluable.
member of the commission. − there was a question about the youth employment package which will be forthcoming on 5 december and will have important elements such as the youth guarantee. on the basis of the youth opportunities initiative and the support from the european council in january, the commission has sent action teams to the eight member states with the highest youth unemployment rate. we have reallocated about eur 10 billion to these countries, benefiting a very large number of young people. just yesterday i saw this in portugal, where about 90 000 young people have been helped through the reallocation of about eur 300 million. the sums in other countries, like italy, have been much greater. i regularly update parliament’s committee on employment and social affairs about these developments.
member of the commission. - madam speaker, i have to ask you a question. i think it is very important to see that the social standards of the european union should apply in all member states, and we have considered it important to apply these requirements in the context of, for example, the new 'labour code' that was born in hungary last year. we have consulted the ministry and the social partners on several occasions to ensure that the resulting law is in line with european labour law. we have agreed with the social partners to monitor how this is applied in practice, and this should of course apply to all businesses, all jobs, whether they are domestic or foreign-owned.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to express my surprise that before we have a controversial vote on shale gas this week, i have to go through a big gate set up by oil and gas companies, that i have to go past a booth where mps are being offered champagne so that they can buy the industry's leading arguments. i believe that in times when there is a constant debate about too much proximity to the european institutions and the lobby, such exhibitions are indecent. i don't know if i have the clout to push this through, but i think this exhibit should be demolished before this vote on shale gas. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i'm getting tired of people saying that if you don't share a political position, an exhibition is bad. and if it's a view that you like, then it's a good exhibition. either there are no exhibitions with political content or everyone is allowed to exhibit. equal rights for all! it is not just the green opinion that has to decide here. (applause from the centre)
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the community. the european union's relations with haiti are of particular importance to us. the severe earthquake that struck haiti on 12 january 2010, killing more than 220 000 people and leaving 1.7 million homeless, has led to unprecedented international solidarity, particularly among europeans. the eu has provided a wide range of humanitarian and development assistance for the reconstruction of your country. since 2010, the european union has been the main donor of aid to haiti. while your country was still dealing with the disastrous effects of the earthquake, it was struck by another natural disaster this year. hurricanes isaac and sandy once again brought death and devastation to the country, with devastating impacts on the supply of food. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. our house has always advocated a strong eu commitment to haiti and close cooperation with the haitian authorities. we want to help your country. we want to help it become an economically and politically stable country, a country that can provide for itself and that can itself contribute to a sustainable reduction of poverty. we attach great importance to your presidency, and we hope that it will bring about a lasting and stable democracy and stability in haiti. the challenges facing you, mr martelly, are enormous. and believe us, we know this - as was also shown yesterday by the debate in the committees of this parliament - about the drama of the challenges you are facing. three years after the disaster, 370,000 people in the country are still waiting for permanent and decent housing. the effort to provide accommodation is of the utmost importance because they have to live in conditions that are in part inhuman. the rebuilding process must logically be made as efficient as possible. the country's poverty needs to be tackled by all means and the reforms needed to strengthen democracy and the rule of law need to be addressed, particularly in the judiciary. i would add, with regard to the debate on the financial resources of the european union, that we must ensure that we can continue to meet our international obligations. it is in the face of your country that we must keep our promises and continue to stand in solidarity with the citizens of haiti. the european parliament is a reliable partner in the necessary implementation of your ambitious reform programme. but this parliament will also fight to ensure that the financial resources which the european union needs to fulfil its promises, for example to haiti, are also secured. the fight for an ambitious european budget is therefore also a fight to ensure that we can keep our promises of solidarity. (applause from the centre) i am pleased to give you the floor, mr president, and i welcome you once again to the european parliament.
i thank you very much, mr president, for your words. thank you also for the reminder of the founding fathers and mothers of the european union. i think your speech was also an encouragement to us that our integration project is not only important for us, but also for other parts of the world. i thank you very much for that. thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention. i wish you much success in your future work.
in writing. − my support for this report could be explained by the fact that recently the increasing number of children is using the internet. while being an essential infrastructure for economic and social relations, internet still carries a number of risks. children start using the online services at a younger age, and spend more time online. the digital world offers them innovative facilities for education, creativity and self-expression. however, online digital media often carry a spectrum of negative and abusive content to which children are more vulnerable than adults. i support the rapporteur on the fact that it is necessary to ensure the sustainability if the safer internet program at european level. i am convinced that by enforcing the age-appropriate privacy settings, content classification, and parental controls as well as by enhancing the cooperation of all actors of children's education we could enable the internet to become an open platform for social progress and economic growth.
in writing. - i abstained from today's vote because the report presents the internet too one-sidedly as a source of danger to children and young people. the commission has also proposed to protect them by measures that are not predictable in their impact on freedom of expression on the internet. the enormous opportunities that the internet offers young people, for example in terms of education and participation, are not being taken into account. i also find it critical to disempower parents through an 'educational alliance' of families, schools and society. instead of creating an artificial safe space for children, we must ensure that children and young people are empowered to be self-aware and responsible on the internet.
i have to say, madam president, i must return to my speech before the votes, based on article 6 (1) of our rules of procedure. in these rules, parliament has agreed that parliament's premises shall not be used by companies pursuing economic interests directly linked to votes which are controversial and which relate to the economic interests of these companies. i am afraid we have an exhibition of shale gas right outside the chamber which is incompatible with rule 6 (1) of these rules. i ask the bureau to clarify this matter immediately. secondly, i checked to see if the citizens' initiative for responsible energy signed this exhibition about shale gas is listed in our lobby directory. i can't find that citizens' initiative there. we created the lobby register to create transparency around lobbying. the companies behind this citizens' initiative are all companies with major economic interests in poland and in the shale gas sector. i would now like to propose once again that either this exhibition be dismantled or that this citizens' initiative sign be replaced immediately with the company signs of the companies behind this citizens' initiative. i would also like to appeal to the hosts of this exhibition, the co-chairs of our bureau, mr vidal-quadras and mr protasiewicz, to support this initiative, because it is in the spirit of the transparency rules that this parliament has set itself that such exhibitions are not held in this form.
i have to say, madam president, a point of order: where are the greens when environmental organisations put up exhibitions in parliament and say to elected members: 'we are the voice of the citizens'? i sometimes feel that the greens only accept democracy if there are arguments that are in line with their own.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not madam president, are you prepared to accept that it is a matter of physics and not of lobbying that burning gas more efficiently than coal produces less co2 emissions than coal-fired power? so if we end up in europe, for example, in the united states, we can already see that, we can turn off coal power plants and turn on gas power plants, and then the co2 emissions will go down? that's my question. and the second question that follows is: are you prepared to accept that less coal mining may also be less invasive to the environment than it might be to explore for shale gas, i.e. that mining coal is more invasive to the environment than exploring for shale gas?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. parliament is being overrun by industrial lobbyists since it was clear that the environment committee and the industry committee would each draw up an own-initiative report. since then, a series of shale gas events have been held here in the house month after month by the gas companies, with the active support of conservative and liberal members. there was only one event that wasn't organized by fracking students among us. this dominance of the unilateral representation of the interests of the capital-rich corporations should make us think. this is unacceptable. this perversion is particularly evident in the fracking issue. companies want to save their profits, risks are minimized and swept aside. accidents are out of the question. we're supposed to need shale gas for the energy transition. the commission has also proposed that the intervention in the landscape be kept to a minimum, and so on. no, all of this cannot hide the fact that fracking is fraught with incalculable risks, is unnecessary and serves only the profit interests of a few gas monopolists. i therefore ask you to vote in favour of amendment no 4. it calls on member states to stop approving fracking activities. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not i think that these lobbyists are holding this event to influence us mps, especially this event is very urgent today in front of parliament before the vote tomorrow. and i think most of them can't escape the arguments that are being made there, because they're supposed to be factual arguments. i don't want to put that on anyone, though. but i am impressed that the industry here thinks it can still make its case. and if we listen to some of the statements, they are also marked by it. that is why i do not think it is good that we are allowed to be overrun by lobbyists in this way in parliament.
question about the blue card procedure to sabine wils. mr president, i would like to thank mrs wils for her report. my question goes in exactly the same direction: what is your view of freely elected representatives, that you think we are the henchmen of industrial interests, that we are not smart enough to form our own opinion, that we need exhibitions and lobbying to act as the henchmen of some lobby? why do you think parliament is overrun by lobbyists? and why don't you assume that there can be a fair and open debate on all issues related to the environment, climate and energy?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. mr president, i would like to thank mr krahmer for his report. i imagine an open debate, a panel discussion, where both sides are invited, where both opponents and supporters of fracking are given a chance to speak. but most of the events that have taken place here in parliament have not been of this nature. as i said, there was a counter-event with an ngo from the united states. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not so i don't think an exhibition can change your mind any more than a conversation with an ngo can change my mind. but i still do not think it is right that it is possible now, before this vote in this parliament, that these lobbyists are standing right outside our door and are going through with this event, which has been mentioned here several times.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that shale gas propaganda exhibit out there has already proved to be a wonderful front door by demonstrating how deceptive these interests operate. i can only congratulate you. as regards our debate, mr oettinger, you know, and you know it from mr potočnik sitting next to you, how many questions remain unanswered and how many doubts cannot be cleared up at the moment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i criticise you because in the past you have repeatedly given the impression publicly and actively that we could take our time. i think what we urgently need is a moratorium which we can use to create the legal framework within which the member states, if they really want to do so, will have to make their decision. but we should not waste this valuable time, and that is your part of the responsibility, mr oettinger! i think the hopes that are placed in this shale gas are grotesquely exaggerated. energy independence even if we stick to the fossil fuel path, according to the commission figures, we would still have to import 60% of our gas from russia, norway or elsewhere in 30 years. for the sake of independence! partners of the energy transition of ways, look to the usa! the development of shale gas is not a partner of the energy transition, but a rejection of the energy transition. and the iea, the international energy agency, has said that shale gas development is not compatible with a 2°c target. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this situation, mr oettinger, it is irresponsible to rely on the development of new fossil fuels. the last sentence is addressed to mrs tzavela, the rapporteur. you've been very charming in trying to get us in the pro-boat. unfortunately, we can't follow you, the differences are too great.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the timing of today's meeting leaves something to be desired. i've never seen us be more than an hour late. the blue card should be used in abundance, but it should not be abused. as for fracking, the debate reminds me a little of nuclear energy. but i must say, everything that is technically possible, one does not have to make technically. and that's why protecting health and the environment is of the utmost importance over any kind of immature technology, and i see that in fracking. i have my greatest concerns about the impact on the environment. what we lack is a reasonable legal framework. we have different policy areas: the energy mix is the responsibility of the member states, but we are responsible for environmental policy. we have loopholes in the water framework legislation. we don't have a right to the mountain. i think it is appropriate and timely for the commission to consider how we can close this gap so that there is legal certainty and we have the highest possible protection for the environment and health. i see that's not the case with fracking. but we cannot be creating a possible energy supply of the future at the expense of the environment or health. and when you look at the number of accidents and risks that are happening in the united states with the 50,000 existing wells, i have to say that we should really think about how we're going to get into this technology and what the protective framework for this future technology is going to be.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. matthias groote, there is no technology without risks! there is no perfect energy-generation technology. and i think that's true of what we're discussing here today. i'm all for having a rational discussion. what we are seeing is a new entry into the energy markets through unconventional resources, mainly gas but also oil. it is not appropriate to fall into a great euphoria about the great gas future, nor is it appropriate, as some of my colleagues from the greens and the left have done, to paint on the walls great horror and horror scenarios which have nothing to do with reality. i think we have to keep in mind that these unconventional resources have the potential to change all the energy supply-demand relationships we know, and that the cost-effectiveness calculations of traditional energy sources are also being called into question. we should face up to this development. we should take note that this can also be an opportunity for europe and not just a risk. we should be prepared to embrace and use new technologies in a positive way, to weigh the opportunities and risks fairly and not to get bogged down in ideological debates.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to speak in particular about the sonik report. i thank bogusław sonik for his work! the report was adopted almost unanimously by the committee on the environment, 63 votes to one. it is a question of the future of the community. subsidiarity means that we as europeans must not prohibit poland from using this new form of energy. it is very clear that poland would like to do this and we have no responsibility under the treaties to prohibit this. the european union should not, on the other hand, impose a soft compulsion to use this technology where it is not wanted. the report also explicitly mentions and acknowledges national and regional moratoriums. it is also called - and the sonik report makes it clear - that we are not using common european funds for this technology. i am facing a very strong opposition in my region, not only from the left or the greens, but from all the municipal councils and the district council, which have said with a large majority, including the cdu: we do not want this technology in our country. this is probably because our region is very densely populated. we have over 200 water catchment areas on a land area of 1,960 square meters. it's understandable that people are concerned about their drinking water. the sonik report also states that we need common european rules where crossborder effects are to be expected and feared, and i ask the commission to work on this with great urgency. we should not use this technique, particularly in areas where drinking water is produced, but otherwise subsidiarity applies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if you follow the debate here, you might almost get the impression that we want one thing but not the other. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are not used for the production of oil and gas. we must realize that our energy consumption will increase in the coming years and that we must use and explore all the technological possibilities available to meet our needs. that is the essential basis of our work. so i see, in the light of these facts, that we're going to see an increase in energy consumption in the next few years, that a technology that might have the potential to expand our energy mix, because that's the foundation, and increase our security of supply, is going to be condemned in advance. i think that we need, in addition to reliable studies on the feasibility and possible risks of shale gas extraction, a more objective, less emotionally driven debate. it should also be stressed that there are no studies to date showing that there has been any damage to the health of the population or that groundwater has been contaminated. and that's why i think a moratorium is wrong. we have also in europe legislation that is the strictest in the world. we have a water framework directive, we have a clear statement on pollution and so on. these rules apply precisely to this technology, and it is therefore a little bit far-fetched to condemn this technology and say that it is highly dangerous. and if you ever get into the technology and really look at what's being done, you'll be surprised at how clean this technology actually is and what the environmental impact might be. however, i would also say that we cannot compare our situation with that of the united states and canada. we have a very different terrain and a very different population. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. a very important question we have to answer is: how can we produce climate-friendly energy at low prices and become independent of energy supplies from third countries? if we want an honest answer to this question, we must not condemn technology in advance, but we must examine without prejudice whether the technology is feasible or not. we must make the best possible use of our energy potential in the european union. that means energy mix. this must be the long-term energy policy. in some regions, wind provides us with energy, in the south, it is more the sun, in some regions we can grow biofuels and in other regions we can mine coal. and in some member states, shale gas is seen as an opportunity. shale gas can also increase europe's energy security and reduce its dependence on imports. it goes without saying that we must not risk the environment and health in this way. the question of whether a member state uses its shale gas reserves is a matter for national decision under the eu treaties. but europe can set environmental standards that must be met if a country chooses to drill. the european environmental law provides a clear framework for this, which we emphasize and specify in our report. this includes rigorous environmental tests that must be carried out before each well is drilled. the support shall not have adverse effects on the quality of soil and water and, consequently, on the health of citizens. unlike my green colleague, michèle rivasi, i believe in the effectiveness of our european regulations and directives. the participation of the public and local residents and a high level of transparency must be guaranteed. the highest safety standards and the best available technologies must be used to avoid that today's technology creates tomorrow's waste again.
mr president, i completely agree with what you said, commissioner: the car industry is now in difficulties; we are experiencing a long-term structural problem. overcapacity has been around for a while. but i want to stress this point: innovation imperatives not taken seriously and not pursued today are the job losses of tomorrow. with that in mind, i really regret that the cars 2020 communication that you mentioned, commissioner, has been lowering the innovation ambition that the commission has set. two innovative projects still pursued two and a half years ago in 2010 are missing: the co2 labelling for cars and the co2 efficiency for heavy-duty vehicles. why does the commission not focus on its responsibility as an innovation agency instead of, if problems arise, playing the role of a corporate welfare agency?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think, commissioner, that you are being too defensive if you are only considering how to remedy the consequences of plant closures and overcapacity. no, i think we need to look at how to make a sensible corporate policy. the lesson is that we need different corporate constitutions. we need greater participation by workers in their enterprises to create sensible solutions for the future of enterprises. this is one of the key lessons of the crisis: more participation in the companies to find sensible solutions. secondly, commissioner, we have in fact fifteen factories in the european union with a capacity of about 50%. but if i look at the global market, commissioner, car production will grow from about 79 million to 84 million. there's something wrong! it is not possible that we are deindustrialising while the global car market is growing by 3% a year. no, we do not need to close down car factories, we need to invest in future technologies if the car industry is to remain in europe and be competitive on the global market. it also means that we must put limits on global corporations, because they are also making global investment decisions and do not necessarily put the european interest first. so more active action from the european commission!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i'm not going to tell you. yes, we support you in your efforts to strengthen the european steel industry. i also think it is right not to follow trends which are also articulated in the steel industry, namely simply to reduce capacity. i have just read a press article by the chairman of the european steel industry, who said that out of the 400 000 jobs that are available, 100 000 jobs would have to be cut, we would have to cut 25% of capacity - a hard, deep cut. no, that is not the way to deal with the problem. we must ensure that we stabilise this core industry in the european union and create prospects for its development. this was, of course, a fundamental building block of the european union. i would remind you of the ecsc, which has very successfully developed a research and structural policy for the steel sector. i think that model should continue. the commission, employers and workers should work together to develop the european steel industry. we need innovation to have highly flexible steel, especially in the field of energy conversion, where there is undoubtedly a demand. we must also ensure that the steel industry can compete and not be over-charged. so you have our support in stabilizing the european steel industry.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - the mr president, the international telecommunications regulations concern matters relating to international telecommunications services and not domestic ones. however, there are aspects of the regulation which are directly related to the acquis of the european union and specifically to the european union regulatory framework for electronic communications. the european union should ensure that any changes to the regulations that may result from the wcit world conference in dubai will not be contrary to the existing legislation of the european union. in addition, it must be ensured that the wcit will in no way restrict the european union in the future development of the community acquis. on behalf of the presidency of the council, i stand before you today to assure you that the council fully supports the two objectives set for the above-mentioned world conference, namely to seek to avoid and address any conflict with the acquis of the european union and to provide assurances that the acquis of the european union can be developed in the future as we choose. the 27 member states, who will participate and negotiate in the wcit as full members, will convey and defend these two messages to the other 163 member states of the international telecommunication union (itu), which is organising this world conference. the 27 member states have committed themselves to make every effort to ensure that the final outcome of the wcit reflects the priorities of the european union as well as existing obligations. as you know, the preparatory process for the wcit is quite complicated. the itu working group and the conference of postal and telecommunications administrations (cept) are of particular importance to the european union. the member states of the european union and the european commission have been actively involved in this preparatory process and have defended the same line there. the european commission will also participate in the wcit, not as a full negotiating member, but as an observer. according to itu rules, full participation is only allowed for the delegations of itu member states. however, in order to benefit more from the commission's participation in the wcit in the context of the effort to defend the objectives or regulate the issues of the european union, we will ask the wcit organizers to accept the european union, through the commission, as an observer in an advisory capacity. while this status does not allow the commission to negotiate on proposals, it does allow the commission to be asked to speak during the negotiations and after the itu member states' interventions have been completed, in order to provide useful advice or information on points relevant to and aligned with the position of the european union. since the beginning of the cyprus presidency we have been discussing the commission proposal, which was in fact fully supported by the council, which is to try to avoid and deal with any conflict with the acquis of the european union and to ensure that the acquis of the european union can be developed as we choose. the commission also proposed that the european union, represented by the commission, should negotiate the revision of the regulations in dubai. on this last point, however, it must be acknowledged that the itu rules do not allow the european union to participate in the wcit as a full negotiating member. whether the commission is participating as an observer or participating as an observer in an advisory capacity, the itu rules do not allow observers to submit proposals or negotiate positions. the decision on whether the commission will be allowed to participate as an observer in an advisory capacity will be taken on the first day of the dubai conference by the chairman. let me stress that the council fully recognises that the commission must present the union's position but it must point out that only the member states of the european union have the possibility of negotiating proposals. these are the rules of the itu and the council cannot change them. what is important is that the commission and the member states work closely together to ensure that the position of the european union is presented in dubai correctly, consistently and in a timely manner, based on the collective expertise of the delegates representing the member states of the european union. it is therefore of particular importance that we ensure effective coordination in this regard in order to be able to react in a timely and effective manner to the many proposals that itu members intend to table. the cyprus presidency has prepared an informal practical arrangements document, which was discussed in the council for better cooperation and coordination of the actions of the 27 member states and the european commission during the conference. to this end, a meeting was co-organised by the cypriot presidency and the european commission in brussels on friday 16 november with the heads of national delegations of the member states or their representatives in dubai, during which practical cooperation and coordination of actions to improve the european union's representation at the conference were discussed in depth. i hope that my answers on the procedural aspect of the wcit have adequately covered the issues raised in mrs verheyen's oral question. on the substance, as far as internet regulation and charging of internet content providers is concerned, suffice it to say that the wcit will agree that the itu should regulate the internet and that telecommunications providers will be able to charge internet content providers. this is a development which runs counter to the european union's main objective for wcit because the results are not compatible with the european union's acquis today and will not become compatible in the future. the common european positions shall be reflected in the european joint proposals as they will be submitted to the conference by the cept, which shall take into account and be consistent with the european acquis. i would like to conclude by saying that when the international telecommunications regulations were introduced in 1988, they were introduced in a traditional network environment based on leased lines, in other words, with separate networks for separate services. nowadays, and increasingly, there's a unified internet protocol-based infrastructure to deliver all services, whether it's voice, video, or data, on a single device. in addition, there is a dramatic increase in mobile telephony and increasing congestion of networks due to the increase in data traffic and especially video data traffic. all these developments pose challenges to the structure of current communications systems and the rules governing these systems in both the developed and developing world. the council is fully committed to making every effort to ensure that the outcome of the wcit is fully in line with the acquis of the european union and with the european union's objective to further expand the digital economy in the european union.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, mr president-in-office, i am replacing the vice-president, mrs nelly kroes, this evening. the internet as we know and use it today has been able to grow organically by giving free rein to the needs of creative and innovative talent, who have created the infrastructure and its content, for the benefit of all citizens. the internet is also a source of jobs and economic growth, both in europe and in the developing world. at the next world conference on international telecommunications in dubai, more restrictive regulation of the internet could be introduced by a revised treaty. regulating the internet would risk undermining innovation and growth in this area, which has contributed so much to the global economy. it would risk restricting traffic and data flow growth, increasing costs, creating administrative constraints and limiting the creation of new businesses. it is not in the interest of our industry to stifle the great capital that the internet represents. even more importantly, many countries that are seeking greater regulation of the internet through the dubai processes do not share the same values as the union and respect for human rights. opening the door to stronger control of the internet to these countries carries a significant risk of undermining freedom of expression, privacy and the legitimate exercise of political dissent. it is therefore important to reject any such suggestion. the european union must therefore oppose any extension of the current scope of international telecommunications regulation, in particular as regards content and traffic controls. the commission took an active part in the preparations for the conference. we expect very difficult negotiations in dubai given the position of other countries and their expectations of a new treaty. that said, a significant number of countries are on the same page as the european union and i am optimistic that inappropriate and overly restrictive regulation will be avoided. a great deal of vigilance and coordination among us, as well as a great deal of work, are essential. the european commission welcomes the fact that etno, the european association of telecommunications network operators, has endorsed the position of the european conference of postal and telecommunications administrations, which states that provisions on ip interconnections have no place in the framework of international telecommunications regulation. the commission proposal for a council decision on a common position of the european union for the world conference on international telecommunications was adopted on 2 august 2012 and forwarded to the council and the european parliament. our position is to ensure that any change in the regulation of international telecommunications does not affect the common rules of the european union and does not change their scope. the commission and the european union are of the opinion that this is not the appropriate platform for defining pricing and compensation systems. at present, the absence of specific regulation on telecommunications and the internet allows the european union to take legislative or regulatory measures on net neutrality that we, the european union, consider necessary. the member states will shortly adopt a revised version of this proposal presented by the presidency. the commission notes that member states have indicated their support for the commission's position and that such initiatives would be detrimental to the future development of the internet as an open and innovative communication platform. however, the commission regrets that the member states have not been able to reach agreement on the institutional issues concerning the representation of the european union as provided for in the treaty of lisbon. a strong voice from the european union is imperative to ensure a positive outcome of the negotiations in dubai. the commission will therefore do all it can to defend the european union's position as strongly as possible in the negotiations of the world telecommunications conference.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not in december, the world conference on international telecommunications will develop and discuss new standards. the itu has previously had to define competences, interoperability and technical standards. some countries such as china, russia and some arab and african states want to transfer more internet governance responsibilities to the itu and include it in the revision of the international telecommunication regulations (itr) governance structures for the internet. we want to make it clear in our resolution that we are firmly opposed to this, as it could restrict fundamental rights such as freedom of expression and information and economic development potential. the internet loses its independence under certain conditions. free access to the internet and the non-discriminatory transmission of data have unlocked great potential for economic development, the dissemination of cultural and creative content and the exchange of knowledge in the past and should continue to do so in the future. the internet has become an integral part of democratic structures. the internet has also helped small and medium-sized enterprises to enter new markets. we therefore call on the council and the commission not to extend the itu's powers to internet governance in the wcit negotiations and to work towards securing the eu's objectives of developing the internet into an open network with special respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and exploiting the economic development opportunities. the architecture of the multi-stakeholder approach to internet governance has proven its worth and should be further developed in the future. i would therefore like to ask the commission and the council to coordinate a common approach in the negotiations on the itr and to represent the european position effectively in the interests of citizens' fundamental rights, development potential and freedoms!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr chichester, for his excellent report, which appreciates the achievements of the committee, but also focuses on certain points, namely our committee on petitions, which is very important, and also mentions things which undoubtedly need to be improved. i am very pleased that the committee has succeeded in continuing the good work it has done in recent years. we offer european citizens a key point of contact if they feel they have been treated unfairly. if you look at the report and see through it, you can see that no issue was unimportant to us. we really have a range of topics. we are also courageous members of parliament in dealing with difficult and sensitive issues. if you like, the committee on petitions ensures direct contact between citizens on the one hand and the european union and the european parliament on the other. when we do fact-finding missions and have actions on the ground, many people come into contact with the european parliament for the first time through the committee on petitions. that alone is worth the continued existence of our committee. now, the question you always have to ask yourself is, every accomplishment you make can be made even better. what, in my view, can be improved? firstly, we must reduce the processing time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i know that the commission sometimes waits too long for the member states to contribute, but that should be done more quickly. secondly, we should reduce the number of inadmissible petitions. thirdly, we can also improve cooperation with the relevant committees. i would like to put it this way: with the information we receive from the citizens and pass on to the special committees, we do not want to hinder their work, but to enrich it.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not for the 28th time, the commission is assessing the current application of eu law. i would like to point out, from the point of view of the committee on petitions, the important role of the petition procedure in this task. as a virtual link between the european union and its citizens, we learn firsthand where there are problems in complying with eu law. it is therefore important that the commission informs the committee on petitions, as well as individual citizens, fully of infringement proceedings already in progress and those initiated on the basis of petitions. but there is another point which is very important to me. most petitions concern the environment and the failure to comply with eu law. this requires the commission, as guardian of the treaties, to intervene at an early stage, before damage caused by non-compliance with eu rules can be remedied. this is often the case in the environmental field, and it is not enough for the commission to assume that the member state will comply with the laws in force during the procedure. at the end of the process, we'll have become smarter. but then, as they say in germany, the child has already fallen into the well. member states should be assisted in the implementation of eu law and action should be taken early on when problems arise. but this also means giving the commission the right to verify on the spot whether eu legislation is being properly implemented and complied with. i know that these are undoubtedly very ambitious objectives, but i am sure that the 29th annual report will show whether we have made progress in achieving them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the democratic structure of the european union is the subject of much discussion these days. the report presented by the commission on monitoring the application of eu law makes it clear that the issue is complex and involves member states. citizens not only have a right to see european legislation made in accordance with democratic principles, but also to see european laws implemented so that they - citizens - and businesses can benefit from them. the member states also have a democratic duty to do so. they are obliged to implement. if they do not do so, they are in breach of the european legal order and therefore of the rule of law. the respect of this principle is, however, a necessary condition for the legitimacy of any form of democratic government. it is a guarantee for citizens to enjoy the rights it provides. the commission's reports show year after year that many member states are very often in breach of the deadlines for transposing directives. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, is therefore obliged to initiate costly infringement procedures which are embarrassing for the member states. the commission must be particularly vigilant in the case of member states with very poor implementation records. we as a parliament are also called upon to do so. our citizens are increasingly turning to us with petitions, drawing attention to the fact that member states are not implementing the directive. we must therefore ensure that communication between parliament and the commission is improved in order to detect and remedy infringements as early as possible. we owe it to our citizens!
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, allow me to react to some of the comments concerning the eu pilot system. we in the commission see this as a very important preventive tool which enables us to redress a situation very swiftly. how does it work? it works in such a way that a member state has 10 weeks in which to respond or propose a solution. we find it a rather quick procedure, we have had very good results with it so far, and we try not to keep it in the dark. we issued a detailed report on how eu pilot has been applied, noting that we had an 80% success rate in correcting flawed implementation, and we are working hard on the next annual report, which will be published very soon. i know that the problems raised by ms lichtenberger also concern the rights of individual complainants. here, too, we try to redress the situation, and we have made very clear how we would like to improve the treatment of individual citizens’ complaints. in april we updated our communication on relations with complainants and we codified their rights better. we confirmed that we would acknowledge receipt of complaints within 15 working days. if the commission decides not to register a complaint, it will give notice of its reasons and provide information about alternative forms of redress. the commission affords the possibility of meeting complainants at their request and informs them of the various steps in the procedure. prior notice is given to the complainant before a case is closed, and the complainant is invited to submit any new comments or new information before this is done. no later than one year from the registration of a complaint, the complainant will be formally notified of whether the case is to be pursued or closed. if the time limit is exceeded the commission will inform the complainant. if we fail to observe this self-imposed codification of the rules, the complainant will have the right to approach the european ombudsman. so we are really trying to make clear how we intend to treat individual complainants. concerning the suggestion and proposal by ms wikström, we will look into all the points as part of our follow-up. i believe we would react to most of the points as was suggested. concerning the member states’ differing levels of quality in the application of eu law, i assure you that in the next report on the application of eu law we will include performances for each member state with a breakdown by sector, so i think it will be even more transparent than has been the case. allow me two last comments, please. the first is on ms regner’s point about the correlation tables. as you know, we had long discussions with parliament and the council about the right approach here, and now we are implementing the political declaration governing this issue. in accordance with that, the commission will present a report on the implementation process by 1 november 2013. finally, a response to ms băsescu: we also plan, in the forthcoming annual report on the application of eu law which is to be adopted in the weeks ahead, to indicate the number of cases that originated in a petition.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting (22 and 23 november 2012), with particular reference to the multiannual financial framework. ladies and gentlemen, i'm sure you've all read the news in the last few hours. i believe that we are now entering a decisive phase in these negotiations and, in the presence of the president of the commission and of mr mavroyiannis, representing the council, i would like to point out once again that the european parliament has certainly taken ambitious decisions, but with full responsibility for the efficiency of the european union and with responsibility for ensuring that the objectives and tasks declared by the heads of state and government themselves remain financiable by this union. i expect the council and the commission to stick to these common objectives, including the financial resources to be made available to the european union. i am sure that the commission will continue along this line, but i am less sure that the council has already grasped the drama of the situation. i hope that the debate today will help to clarify the situation.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, let me begin by thanking you for the opportunity to participate in this debate. as you know, this week’s extraordinary meeting of the european council is convened in order to deal with the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. over the last months the cyprus presidency and our trio of partners beforehand have invested a lot of time and effort into what is a very complicated and challenging file following last year’s commission proposals. the aim of the cyprus presidency was to maintain the momentum and mature the dossier, preparing the file for a full discussion aiming to reach an agreement this year. to this end, we held extensive bilateral consultations in july, followed by an issues paper and an informal general affairs council meeting in cyprus. then, we issued two non-papers on various issues covering macroeconomic conditionality, better spending, ral, flexibility and corrections, trying to advance the discussion and provide solutions where possible. having taken into account the wish of parliament to wait for the vote on the relevant interim report, we only introduced for the first time figures in late october in the negotiating box. this proposal was underpinned by difficult political choices, trying to pave the way for a balanced agreement. overall, i believe that work in the council in the past few months and the interaction with all institutions and stakeholders has covered some important ground facilitating the prospects for an agreement. all along this process, we have worked very closely and constructively with parliament. we met formally before and after each general affairs council according to the procedure agreed under the hungarian presidency. in addition, parliament’s negotiating team was invited to participate at the informal ministerial meeting in cyprus in august and also in an informal ministerial breakfast in luxembourg last month. of course, beyond these formal meetings, we have held many other informal discussions which have been very fruitful and conducive to advancing this file. the negotiating team of parliament also had an extensive meeting with the cabinet of president van rompuy in the framework of the bilateral meetings held between 5 and 12 november 2012. on 13 november 2012, the president of the european council presented a draft set of european council conclusions which include all the elements which will need to be part of an agreement. the text presented further develops the work carried out by the presidencies, differentiating in a number of aspects, something normal at this stage. last monday we had an extensive meeting with mr lamassoure, chair of the committee on budgets, and the negotiating team of parliament, along with the head of the cabinet of president van rompuy and the competent commissioners. this meeting allowed for a fruitful and productive exchange of views on the draft european council conclusions and for parliament’s substantial input. we all know how important it is to get the eu’s future financial framework right. the presidency supports the president of the european council in his determination to secure a deal later this week. this is essential for the credibility of the union and for its ability to deliver to and on behalf of its citizens. this package takes us towards an eventual compromise. the proposal reduces the original commission proposal by approximately eur 75 billion for the mff itself and an additional eur 6 billion for those elements outside the mff. the draft conclusions do not contain options. this parliament has consistently sought to maintain the level of expenditure originally proposed by the commission. even if, on a personal basis, i may regret that this has not proved possible, we must all be realistic. europe has been through one of the most severe crises, and despite significant efforts at both national and eu level, the effects of this crisis will continue to be felt for some time. we have no choice but to reflect this dire situation in the mff and draw and assume the ensuring outfall. we live at a time of severe constraint as a result of the need for fiscal consolidation. the negotiations on the european budget cannot take place in complete isolation from this reality, however uncomfortable that is. we need to cement together fiscal consolidation with investment in growth and jobs through an unavoidably tight mff, which is our main investment tool. of course we are fully aware of the arguments on european added value, complementarity, synergy, economies of scale and how valid all those arguments are, but under the circumstances it was felt that these parameters could be appropriately addressed through the improvement of the quality of spending. to reach a compromise we have to go below the commission proposal. i cannot say now by how much exactly, but i believe that the latest proposals are not very far from where we are likely to end up. the conclusions put forward by the president of the european council contain cuts across all headings. as regards instruments outside the mff and flexibility, the president has been guided by the principle that lower ceilings require greater flexibility in a seven-year framework. it is not therefore proposed to reduce the flexibility instrument. furthermore, a contingency margin is part of the package. you may have seen that the conclusions also put forward some proposals from the revenue side such as retaining the option of reforming the vat-based own resource while the option of having the financial transaction tax as an own resource has also been kept on the table. last, but not least, a reform of the system of corrections is proposed in order to make them more transparent and fair, within the limits of what seems to be achievable. the whole day tomorrow will be taken up with bilaterals between the presidents of the european council and of the european commission with all heads of state or government of member states to test out the likely basis on which a compromise can be reached. the european council will open tomorrow evening, with a discussion with you, mr president. i know that president van rompuy is committed to achieving a compromise. the european council is therefore expected to last as long as it takes. let me conclude by saying that throughout this whole process the representatives of parliament have been extremely helpful and cooperative. you will see that a number of your concerns have been addressed in the draft european council conclusions. i am sure that all the institutions and the member states will do their utmost to ensure that we reach a conclusion on this issue by the end of the year. the cyprus presidency stands ready to facilitate the agreement both amongst the member states and with parliament.
president of the commission. the european council will meet in brussels tomorrow and the day after to discuss the future budgetary framework of the european union for the period 2014-2020. the prosperity and stability of europe, economic competitiveness and social cohesion are at stake. the aim is to achieve sustainable growth and job creation. but as we all know, growth does not just happen and jobs do not just appear with a magic wand. the europe 2020 strategy until the conclusions of the european council in june 2012, there was a growing number of statements in favour of sustainable growth and job creation. it remains to be seen how governments will reconcile their statements with their actions. the decisions on the future budgetary framework of the european union are a key test of our credibility, because our main instrument for investing in growth and job creation is precisely the european budget. we have many other engines for growth - the internal market, international trade - but in terms of investment, the main instrument is the european budget. only the european budget can finance a european dynamic that national budgets alone could not finance, a dynamic crucial for growth and employment in europe, by creating a genuine european area of economic, social and territorial cohesion, education, research and innovation, infrastructure. let us be clear: governments will put first what they define as their national interest. it is up to the community institutions - the commission, the european parliament - to highlight the truly european dimension of what is at stake. the commission remains convinced that its proposals represent the general european interest and that of all the member states. the european budget is not, as some people say, a budget for brussels or strasbourg! over 94% of the budget is devoted entirely to european citizens. it is a budget to invest in the economies of all the member states, of our regions, of our cities, of our countryside; a budget to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and also to strengthen european convergence and solidarity. the union's budget is therefore essentially what makes it possible at european level to improve the lives of our fellow citizens, in particular through cohesion policy, the policy of solidarity par excellence, but also through growth policy, economic convergence and job creation. this is a policy which is adaptable to the circumstances and which has proved to be more necessary than ever in these times of budgetary constraints. a policy which favours both the countries receiving the funds and the countries contributing to the funds. in one third of the member states, public investment co-financed by the structural funds exceeds 50%. in some countries this figure is as high as 75 per cent and even 97 per cent. these figures show you the vital importance of these policies. without the structural funds, these countries, and in particular the majority of the new member states, will not be able to guarantee employment, to pursue fiscal consolidation or to carry out structural reforms. but it also benefits the contributing countries, in this case the largest contributors, whose companies in turn benefit from significant investment opportunities. in many cases, it can be verified that more than 50% of the structural funds going to the cohesion countries are returning to the economies of the major contributors. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national networks. so it's really a win-win policy. cohesion policy is not just a policy for the poorest. cohesion policy, according to the treaties, is a policy of economic, social and territorial cohesion for the whole of the european union. this is an objective of the european union as a whole. the budget of the european union also enables us to have genuine common policies. and through the synergies we achieve, we save money while safeguarding the integrity of the single market. this is the case, for example, in agriculture, where 27 separate national policies would cost more than the common agricultural policy. have we ever thought about what would happen if we did not have a common agricultural policy? what if we had a market fragmentation in europe into 27 different national policies for agriculture? the cap has always been able to adapt to new socioeconomic challenges. it is reforming itself even more. europe needs a strong, modernised, competitive, innovative and 'green' cap more than ever to meet the expectations of europeans in terms of food supply and health, but also to contribute to the fight against climate change and the sustainable management of natural resources. and to those who say - because sometimes some say - that we must reduce our proposal because the community budget must also participate in the great effort of budgetary consolidation under way in europe, i say: 'that is exactly what we are doing.' in the common policies, the pooling of expenditure represents a surplus value and therefore a real saving. it is primarily for the benefit of european taxpayers. it must be clear that opposing this european added value is not advancing consolidation. it is, in fact, a brake on fiscal consolidation. it is to avoid a more synergistic, more efficient, more fruitful expenditure. the european budget enables us to create a genuine european area which is much more than the sum of its parts. by sharing the costs we can also develop other projects, including the free movement of knowledge, which we call the fifth freedom. and so we will achieve better results in the key areas of education and research, which are essential for a competitive europe, which maintains or establishes its leadership in sectors of the future. this is exactly what we are proposing with the erasmus plus programme, which will cost less than 2% of the total budget, but will make a huge difference for millions of young europeans, who will be able to study, train and work in another country. this is also what we are proposing with the horizon 2020 programme, so that europe remains a land of innovation and spectacular scientific breakthroughs. nobel laureates in science and fields medal winners in mathematics have submitted a joint petition to us. i recently received them in brussels. the petition, initiated by 44 european science nobel laureates, and which had already received 130,000 signatures from european scientists - mostly young european scientists - is a reminder that a euro invested in research and innovation, by bringing together the best capacities at european level, often has a greater impact than a euro spent at national level. these researchers and scientists welcome the success of the european research council, set up by the european union, which has been recognised worldwide. and as the european union begins to attract the world's best researchers and young european researchers decide to stay here, the worst thing europe could do is to cut off the gas while the european plane - the research and innovation plane - is just taking off. the european budget also finances what the member states could not finance themselves, for example, the large pan-european networks needed to 'connect' europe. you all know our proposal, the connecting europe facility, a european interconnection mechanism in the fields of transport, energy and digital technology. several of the most important business leaders in europe, those who really have a vision, not a petty one, but a european, global vision, have signed a letter calling for the budget to support this interconnection mechanism. why would you do that? because they know very well that without the european budget we will not have the leverage to invest in these infrastructures which are essential for our europe. and there are areas where our combined competences can lead to better results, such as justice, security, the smooth functioning of the schengen area and, for example, the fight against illegal immigration. we cannot continue as we are doing now: whenever there is a very serious problem of illegal immigration, people turn to europe and ask what it is doing, when we know very well that europe does not have the resources to deal with this problem, if we do not share national competences in this area. so what we are proposing is to spend more on results that are focused on our top priorities. some suggest cutting it here and there, saying that in the end it would make no difference to europe. but i can guarantee you that what is really little for europe as a whole becomes a huge difference for some of our policies and for some of our countries. what does each billion withdrawn from horizon 2020 mean? this means financing 4 000 private smes for innovation that creates growth and jobs; this means 600 excellent researchers and their teams, who can no longer continue the work on which our future prosperity depends; this means, for example, the end of the imi (innovative medicines initiative) programme, which is dedicated to innovation in the field of health. a few fractions of a percentage point less to connect europe means giving up european leadership in transport, abandoning our co2 reduction projects such as the carbon capture and storage project, abandoning the development of the connections between eastern and western europe. to make even small cuts in the already relatively modest budget for culture is to deny ourselves the creation of jobs in a promising sector and to amputate the european creativity that we need more than ever. (applause) i would like to thank cutting the commission's proposal to create a european fund for the poorest may not be a huge amount in terms of the overall amount, but it is a dramatic difference for the 116 million europeans, including 25 million children, who are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. (applause) i would like to thank frankly, ladies and gentlemen, how can europeans understand that when there are summits in brussels to find hundreds of billions of euros to save the banks, an agreement is reached, but when it comes to a few million to help the poorest, we hear many more negative voices than positive ones? how can we understand this? (applause) i would like to thank to call into question the european globalisation adjustment fund when europe is experiencing unacceptable levels of unemployment is to deny millions of unemployed people the opportunity to train and return to work. it is also depriving us of one of our most innovative instruments for social support in the case of relocations. a few thousandths of a percentage point less for the european development fund and humanitarian aid is simply a matter of life and death for the most vulnerable people in the world. because behind those numbers are people's lives, real people! to do so would be contrary to our values and would also be contrary to our interests. i insist that i am not talking about values or interests in general, i am talking about concrete people. for example, i recently visited a syrian refugee camp in jordan where the unicef director general told me that, without the help of the european union, all these young girls and boys simply could not have access to education. these young girls i met there study in tents. their cities were destroyed by the al-assad regime. they come by the hundreds of thousands from neighbouring countries and europe is there to help them. are we now going to reduce our efforts in the face of these tragedies? mr president-in-office, you received the president of haiti yesterday. i also received it in brussels. on behalf of the haitian people, he thanked europe for not forgetting haiti, where the earthquake killed over 300 000 people and left the country completely devastated, despite its economic difficulties. he thanked europe for giving haitian children hope for the future. for africa, to which we europeans have a special responsibility, and for many other countries in the world, europe cannot fail to fulfil its commitments to achieve the millennium development goals. this is the europe i believe in and we believe in: an open and united europe, a europe that will not turn its back on the rest of the world! ladies and gentlemen, giving the european union the budget it deserves is giving ourselves the opportunity to rebuild the european economy on new foundations. it also means delivering on our commitment to ensure that expenditure is mobilised in favour of growth and jobs, competitiveness and convergence. that is why the commission is sticking to its original proposal. the union's budget must be a genuine budget to support the growth agenda, and i am pleased to see that our proposals are generally supported by this parliament and by a majority of member states. on 13 november, i attended a summit of the friends of cohesion in the european parliament in brussels, with the president of the european parliament, co-organised by the prime minister of poland and the prime minister of portugal, with the participation of 16 governments and the social partners, businesseurope and the european trade union confederation. the social partners, who do not always agree, are here and they are pushing for the european budget not to be reduced in its ambitions because it is essential for growth. the message was very clear and unanimous. that is why i have called for the 'friends of cohesion' and those of 'better spending' to join together in a grand european coalition of 'friends of growth'. because the main risk i see today is that the cuts will affect areas of the future that are essential for growth. the paradoxical effect is that, precisely because of certain demands from the 'better spending' group, we are reducing the overall amount, which is probably what will most sacrifice the policies for the future and the strengthening of competitiveness. because, indeed, the better spending agenda is essential. i also said that in front of the cohesion countries. i am a friend of cohesion but i am also a friend of better spending. we also need to be open with each other and critical of certain european expenditure which has not always brought added value in terms of competitiveness. that is why we want to align cohesion policy with the europe 2020 objectives for sustainable and smart growth, not just any kind of growth. that is why we are in favour - i know it is not very popular with some people but i have to say it - of macroeconomic conditionality in this area. we need to align our different policies, precisely as part of our efforts to strengthen economic governance. the efficiency of our investments is therefore essential. the added value of each euro is therefore essential. but i wonder whether those who would also like to cut administrative expenditure drastically are really concerned about efficiency, that is to say, about optimising the means of implementation, or whether they are mainly seeking to weaken institutions such as, for example, the commission and the european parliament. (applause) i would like to thank a deep cut in expenditure representing less than 6% of the budget would have only a minimal impact on the desired savings. and we need - it must be said - an independent public service in europe, a high-level public service to draw up laws and develop projects that benefit the whole of europe. before concluding, let me add two points. firstly, the commission is fighting for appropriate flexibility. the budget must be able to adapt over the years to changes in the economic situation. the contributions must therefore be real money and not virtual money, especially in view of the current dramatic situation in some of our member states, which need investment not in 2020 but in 2014, in the new european budget, and before that in the 2012 and 2013 budgets. the commission also wants to reaffirm today its proposal to implement a system of own resources, closer to the rules of the treaty, providing that the union's budget must be financed from own resources. it is important that the european council in the coming days should show its willingness to move in this direction. in the end, ladies and gentlemen, the important thing is that we all work together to achieve these objectives in a spirit of loyal cooperation. of course, the whole point of negotiation is to reach compromises. the commission will therefore be presenting itself to the european council in a spirit of compromise but with a view to making constructive compromises, compromises which must strengthen europe and not contribute to its destruction. and everyone has to be a part of it. the key is that we have a budget that is a real catalyst for growth and jobs. i would therefore like to ask the heads of state and government here, meeting in brussels, to listen to the nobel prize winners in science, who remind us that the future of europe depends on research and innovation. listen to the voice of erasmus students who want the best education. listen to the voices of their own regions, business organisations and trade unions who tell us how much investment is needed to revive growth. listen to the voices of entrepreneurs who expect investments in infrastructure to connect europe through transport, energy, digital; the voices of food banks against hunger, who would not understand that in the current social emergence, in many of our countries, so many poor people are left without hope; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. listen also to the voice of our international partners, humanitarian organisations, non-governmental organisations, who are calling for europe to remain engaged in the world, in development aid and in leadership in the fight against climate change and for sustainable development; the european union is a great example of the kind of hope that we have for the future of europe. i also ask the european governments to listen to the voice of this democratically elected parliament, which represents the citizens of europe. i ask them to listen so that we can have a stronger europe, a europe of growth and jobs.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are facing a banking crisis in the european union, unfortunately also a sovereign debt crisis, but also a political, political-institutional crisis and, increasingly, a crisis of acceptance of the european union. why is the next common budget for 2014-2020 so crucial for the future of european citizens? because it must express - if it exists at all - the common european will to shape the future better, that is, a european commitment or a volonté générale européenne. i think mr cameron is simply wrong. because in his argument - because we have to save in the uk, the european level has to save in the same way - there is no understanding that there has to be joint investment if we want to invest sustainably in the next few years and achieve real investment in the future. china, india, brazil will not wait. we must act together if we are to pursue the interests of our citizens. the argument is also wrong because the european budget grew by only 1.95 per cent between 2007 and 2013, while all national budgets grew by much more. this is a disproportion if we really want to make a common, decisive policy. i would like to stress once again what the previous speakers have said: we are not acting out of selfish institutional interest, we are not talking about more money for its own sake, but about more money to give our citizens a better future! it is about the new competitiveness of the european union, not about repeating the mistakes of the past with bubble formations in spain or elsewhere, but it is really about sustainable growth. it's about sustainable investments in the future. it is about fighting youth unemployment, for the energy transition, for technologies and products that reduce co2, for organic agriculture, for the renovation of old buildings, for the literacy of many people in europe, for investment in the creative industries, which often create more jobs than other sectors. it is about education, education, education, about erasmus, but it is also about european cinema, for example. i say this because we are awarding the lux prize later. so, in my view, mrs merkel made the following mistakes when she spoke to us here two weeks ago: she said that 27 member states had jointly decided to invest 3% in research and development. the same woman is the leader of a net contributor coalition in the council, which is proposing to save up to 12% on research and development for the cypriot presidency. what political schizophrenia! it's not coherent, it's not looking ahead. we in the european parliament reject such a policy, such proposals by the cypriots and mrs merkel, by a large majority! it's about the fact that we need the will to invest together. of course we have to answer the question of where the money is to come from, if it is not to come from gross domestic product payments alone, as mr verhofstadt has said again, this model is no longer viable. it leads to incredibly bad conflicts and this method of negotiation, always pushing everything further down if possible. that is why the introduction of the financial transaction tax and other new own resources is so crucial, because it allows us more political autonomy, more common interest, and it is also a question of justice. the banks must help finance the crisis. we cannot just put money in the banks all the time, the banks themselves must contribute to the european budget out of social responsibility. that is why commissioner lewandoski's proposal, his model of a financial transaction tax two thirds to the european budget and one third to the national budgets , as an incentive model is a very good proposal. yes, we must fight tax evasion, because european citizens rightly feel that it is extremely unfair not to prosecute those who are not willing to pay, including the rich in greece. we cannot accept this any longer! this is about social justice. we must contribute to that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if the council does not make a substantial move, we are prepared to say no, not - i repeat - out of selfish interest, but out of interest for the citizens of europe! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not i think we do need a reform of agricultural policy. we should not go back to a purely national agricultural policy, that would be a return to national thinking. i do not like all these words about repatriation and the emphasis on purely national interests. this is not responsible policy for the 21st century. but we still have a great need for reform in agricultural policy. we cannot continue with certain direct payments to the agro-industry which are not sustainable. but that is why we need a well-understood second pillar and the means to initiate reform. i am in favour of this, and so are my green colleagues, and i hope that we can convince even more people that we need healthy food and that we must continue to adhere to a policy of community living.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not ladies and gentlemen, i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i believe that what you are doing at the moment, in view of the dramatic situation in which the european union finds itself, is simply a theatre of lies. i think it is unworthy of this parliament that such speeches can be made here and that we have little opportunity to limit you. i do not think you are really speaking in the interests of the people of the united kingdom when you go off on the european union like that and end up making nationalist and sordid statements here. i am sorry, i take this situation far too seriously, and today i heard for the first time a speech by mr barroso, with which i can agree in many respects, although i have noted in the background that it was also a speech of despair. a speech that is based on the question of what is happening at the summit these days will the leaders of the world realise that they are responsible for making important decisions and for coming together to ensure the functioning, survival and future of the european union? the fact is that what is currently being presented to us as budget proposals, as proposals for the financial framework, does not help to strengthen the union in its cohesion. the fact is that the current proposals all assume a dramatic reduction. and you're wrong to say that it's a raise that's being demanded. the commission's additional proposals are ultimately only a compensation for the additional tasks which have been assigned to the european union, for a challenge which the european union is facing. in the end, neither for administration nor for other things is there really any more money being spent, and it is simply an understatement to say every time that we must first of all save and spend better. if there are no resources that can be put to better use, then you're talking past the target. i ask you how the european union should continue to fight poverty and social exclusion in the future, for example, if the european budget for the years 2014 to 2020 already provides for a definite cut in aid funds for the poorest and most deprived in the european union, with the present proposals alone. because it is de facto a cut. you cannot just say that you are indifferent to what is happening in the european union in the context of the crisis, that more people are sinking into absolute poverty every day and that this is an existential threat. you cannot say that we value britain ten times more than the rest of the world and think that you can save your own country from the crisis hitting the poorest people in your own country. you will once again have to rely on the european solidarity which you are now so willing to throw away. i can tell you that very clearly now. i therefore urge you and i urge the federal government to abandon this attitude of dissociation and lift the blockade. the council is making itself useless, it is destroying the european union, if it does not finally adopt different attitudes, those which are far removed from narrow-minded, narrow-minded and nationalist interests.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is primarily a matter of singing the song of humanity and solidarity here in europe. and that applies to members of parliament from your constituency as well as from my constituency or from the constituency from which mr farage comes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to emphasize once again the contents of the interim report of october, which mr kalfin and i, as rapporteur, have presented to you and which you supported by a very large majority. the council's position is that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budget is properly implemented. this is more than a pity and almost looks like a missed opportunity for a settlement. and just to be clear, we're all for better spending. we are in favour of structural changes and we make very specific proposals in the interim report because it is more than necessary to talk intensively about synergy effects, avoidance of duplication of work, but also about the aspects of subsidiarity and to clarify them. but unfortunately there are member states for whom the european budget is simply a cancer. there are no senseless pretensions and this leads to poisoning! if the european budget grew by 1.95 per cent per year from 2008 to 2013, then we are well ahead: germany by almost 2.5 per cent per year, france by almost 2.8 per cent, the netherlands by 2.8 per cent, austria by almost 3 per cent, sweden by almost 2.9 per cent, the united kingdom by 2.5 per cent. we are not going to be able to compete for stability and a sound budgetary policy in this context. mr barroso, you made a good speech, but please remain firm in your meeting with the european council and do not let yourself be cooking! i would like to appeal to the european council: do not miss the opportunity to make an offer to parliament which we can accept with an absolute majority, and give the cypriot presidency a sufficient and flexible negotiating mandate to this end so that we can achieve a reasonable result by the end of the year, which takes into account our priorities. to be clear, the van rompuy proposal as it currently stands will not be able to bring about a solution and will not be able to get the approval of the european parliament. i would like to ask you, mr president, to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i have heard a lot of clever speeches today, including real speeches, about why we as the european parliament, why europe needs a certain amount of money. the tasks have also been properly and precisely named. on the other hand, there is this competition - i think mr swoboda called it that - between the member states: who saves the most? i'm just not sure that's the right way to do these speeches in this difficult time of crisis. i could give a speech right now about why this is all important. but i also think we have a responsibility to think about how we get together. how can we best ensure that an agreement is reached in the next few days? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that there is no way around the fact that we too should think about this a little, where we can take a step towards the others. president schulz said at the beginning that parliament is moving and will move. a little phrase i found, a clever phrase! the resolution we have before us shows that we are also concerned about how we can move towards each other. because it is not true that everything we spend, wherever we spend, is compulsory and necessary at any cost. there will be room for manoeuvre, just as in national parliaments. the questions are: how much? in what areas? these are the exciting questions. i would like to argue less about whether we are getting this much money or that much money, but i would like to argue more about what tasks are to be carried out here and how much money we will then need for them. what tasks might be necessary? what processes can we question? is it really for the particular group that gets money - i think of agriculture for example - always a good idea to give more money and at the same time impose more restrictions? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the financial crisis, and whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the financial crisis. a compromise means both of you have to move. we will consider where we can give a little, and the member states cannot just go on the austerity spree!
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. so now we have the special summit in the house and we are talking our heads off, trying to achieve harmony. the special summit devoted solely to the elaboration of the council's mandate for negotiating the multiannual financial framework. the commission has already produced two negotiating boxes, one relating to the other, in preparation for the negotiations. to put it bluntly, we are not satisfied, we cannot be satisfied with what is at hand. we are also more than annoyed by the council's attitude on budgetary matters: irresponsible! this should make us all repeat what we said in june last year: we need a proper own resources system, one that really deserves the name 'own'. the first small step taken by the commission is not enough. we need almost nothing more urgently than this real own revenue, which makes the european budget independent of all transfers from the member states' budgets. we need this independence to make this intolerable attitude and argumentation in some member states irrelevant. there is - herbert reul has just said it - only talk about payments, deposits and withdrawals. they never discuss political priorities, their priorities. we are never told what they want to achieve with the european budget. no idea about the future of the european union. the council is not a european institution but a collection of 27 national egos, all of which are fighting like kettle sticks. yes, there is a cake. but they're arguing about what ingredients you have to deliver to the cake and how big your piece of the cake can be. everybody wants to eat, nobody wants to bake. that's awful.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. and every day the groundhog says hello. every seven years the money quarrel starts again, and jutta haug was right when she said that the member states quarrel like kettle-sticks. we are again discussing 5% more or 5% less in agricultural subsidies, the necessary investment in research and development, instead of discussing the priorities for this european union. but it is becoming increasingly clear that the underlying problem is that our member states are all 'people of the street'. the question is always: 'what do i get out of this budget?' and not: 'what do i bring into this budget as added value?' other instead of a common european interest, the eu is dominated by 27 individual interests. if we fail to formulate a common interest for this european union, we will abolish it in the long term. that's something none of us in this house who are sane can want. the multiannual financial framework must be an opportunity to express this european interest.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's why i have to tell you that we can't bring a catch-the-eye procedure into this debate. i ask for your understanding, but unfortunately that is not possible, because we have so many speakers from the political groups on the list of speakers that we cannot, even if we try, go through the process of 'catch-the-eye'.
i thank you very much, mr president of the committee on budgets. (a) the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament; herr verhofstadt, you are especially active this morning. mr cohn-bendit, you are so balanced in character, can you not be a little bit more balanced? my request to the ministers of the interior and justice is as follows: i have now gestrichen the catch-the-eye-procedure, which does not have much popularity in this house. if you would now please take your five minutes of your time, because it is already all said, but not yet by everyone, then i would be very grateful to you.
mr mavroyiannis, whatever the assessments of the cypriot presidency - whether it is a weak or a strong presidency, it is always subject to political speculation and political evaluation - i would like to say one thing to you, and i think i say this on behalf of all those who work with you personally: you are not the council, you are first of all the representative of cyprus and the representative of the member states. i would like to say to you personally that you have earned a very high level of personal respect in your cooperation with the institutions, and i would like to express that respect on behalf of the house. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i am quite clear that pragmatism and reality require a higher budget for the european union, especially for programmes to combat poverty and social exclusion. it is not possible that even the €2.5 billion earmarked for the fund for the poor will be reduced further to €2 billion or rejected altogether by the member states. i therefore ask that it be recognised that the crisis has made the situation worse for many people in the member states and that we are called upon to show solidarity here. that must be the first demand for the forthcoming negotiations next week. i also believe that the council must finally agree that the budget deficit of eur 9 billion will be closed this year and not carried over to next year, and that no further deficits from 2012 will be carried over to the next financial framework, thus reducing the overall sum even further.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, mr barroso once said you will not fall in love with the internal market, and i say: it is even less likely that you will fall in love with austerity. und das ist der eigentliche punkt! es geht nicht um verschwendung, es geht darum, dass wir bereit sind zu gezielten einsparungen dort, wo geld nicht nachhaltig ausgegeben wird. es geht um einen richtig verstandenen geist des wachstumspakts. das müssen wir zum wohle der europäischen bürgerinnen und bürger einhalten, weil es um zukunftsinvestitionen geht und um solidarität. die zyprische ratspräsidentschaft hat einen vorschlag vorgelegt, den wir nicht akzeptieren können, weil er strukturkonservativ ist. er bewahrt alte ausgabenschwerpunkte, aber hat nicht den mut, zu neuem aufzubrechen. die politik des rates von 27 „ichlingen“ ist eben keine europäische politik. den beiden sprechern aus großbritannien will ich deutlich sagen: gestern haben sich britische unternehmen im vereinigten königreich an die öffentlichkeit gewandt und haben von cameron verlangt, dass er sich bewegen muss, dass er seinen euro-skeptizismus zähmen muss, weil das nachteilig für die britische wirtschaft und die interessen der britischen bürger ist. da geht es lang! und das schreibe ich herrn callanan und herrn farage ins stammbuch!
ladies and gentlemen, i must ask you once again to take your seats. mr poettering and mr buzek, if you are here already as former presidents, how can i ask the house to keep quiet? so please take your seats and listen to the interesting speech of mr verhofstadt!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the debate showed that parliament is unanimous in its large majority and consistently supports the resolution of the october interim report. we are willing to compromise. but there are limits to compromise. we know, of course, that the commission and the member states must be consistent in tackling deficits in the management of the european budget. we have to get this under control! we want a result in the time allotted, but not a result at any price. quality is more important than timing. i would like to make it quite clear that the proposal put forward by mr van rompuy is definitely not a majority proposal in this context. (applause from the centre) the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on it. it is not relevant if we are then told that we will reduce by 75 billion plus/ 25, whatever, and a few months later we will have a euro facility. if there is such a way, such a discussion, it is part of the european budget in the sense of the unity of the european budget. anything else would outsource the core of the european union and weaken it in the long term. none of us can seriously want that! i therefore say, as does mr swoboda, that we want an agreement and we expect the european council, in the event of an agreement by the cypriot presidency, to give it a sufficient mandate to negotiate flexibly and openly with parliament in order to achieve a result in the next few weeks. if we do not get adequate offers, then a bad, extremely bad offer from the european council to parliament is much worse than the safety nets that the lisbon treaty gives us. we're not falling off the grid! it's not a crisis! we'd just be working with different, but possibly better numbers. (applause from the centre)
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 12.15 p.m. and resumed at 12.35 p.m.) written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote was 386 for, 281 against and 28 abstentions. (parliament adopted the resolution) i note that mr borg has the assent of the european parliament. (applause from the centre)
in writing. - i did not elect tonio borg as commissioner for health and consumer protection. it is expected to roll back basic civil rights. i miss his willingness to work with commitment for the fundamental rights enshrined in the european charter. but this is where we need to move forward, not backward. he will also have to fight for the rights of same-sex couples and women's self-determination within his portfolio. but will he? i can hardly hide my disappointment that he still got the majority of the ep. it will now be up to us in the ep to limit his conservative influence on european legislation.
in writing. − monitoring and verifying the application of common law in the european union is a very important task for the institutions and one which places a great deal of responsibility on them vis-à-vis the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the united kingdom in particular is a negative example. further monitoring is urgently needed.
in writing. - i thank the rapporteurs for their reports. the extraction of shale gas offers the opportunity to reduce our dependence on energy imports. i think we can all agree on that. however, there are different views on what controls are necessary and what risks are acceptable. i think that in this day and age we cannot afford to ignore an alternative to fossil fuels. it is now time to investigate and research without prejudice. opportunities and risks must be discussed and quantified in an open and honest manner. i believe that shale gas can be extracted and used as long as it is subject to strict environmental requirements. technology is developing at a rapid pace and we cannot stand still.
in writing. − energy security is one of the most important principles for good eu policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy market is not affected by the oil price fluctuations. high safety standards for exploration and extraction are important, as are environmental and health compatibility. no technology should be condemned in advance. the member states have the final say, but it is still useful and desirable to have joint planning. i have agreed to the report, although i am also saddened by the rejection of some of the amendments.
in writing. - it should be left to the member states to decide whether or not to extract shale gas. but if they do, the rules should be strict enough to avoid environmental damage, according to the findings of our reports. i welcome this message from the european parliament today on the highly controversial issue of shale gas development. a ban on shale gas production throughout the eu would have been the wrong signal. we do not want to see a situation like that in the united states or canada, where there has obviously been a lot of environmental exploitation. but in times when energy has become so expensive, it would be foolish to shut ourselves off from the possibility of extracting shale gas. the extraction of shale gas could make us independent of expensive imports and is good for our carbon footprint. if the figures of the scientists are correct, then there is an incredibly large potential for shale gas to be extracted from the ground here in europe too. in north america, shale gas has already reduced our dependence on foreign energy enormously. but it is also clear that fracking poses risks, especially for the environment. these risks of the new method must be adequately assessed. no one wants polluted groundwater or degraded landscapes. the member states should now be given the opportunity to examine and test this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the two own-initiative reports on the opportunities and risks of shale gas extraction in the eu. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. it is of course desirable to reduce dependence on natural gas from third countries. in times of exploding energy prices, we must not therefore refuse to discuss the potential opportunities of shale gas extraction. but we must not ignore the potential dangers of this extraction technique. only if negative environmental effects, such as groundwater contamination, can be safely excluded, may permits for extraction be granted. this also applies to test drilling. we therefore call for a mandatory environmental impact assessment before every well is drilled and for the polluter principle to be established so that citizens do not have to pay for the mine in the end. hydrofracking should be banned in drinking water catchment areas in general. this is also true of coal-mining regions. there have been or are occurring landslides and the displacement of groundwater flows, which makes a reliable impact assessment impossible. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to use the eu's own resources to support the development of the gas industry. the commission notes that the uk authorities have not provided any evidence that the fracking technology is being used in the production of shale gas.
in writing. - petitions are one of the most important rights of citizens in europe. the number of almost 1000 petitions received in the last 12 months shows that citizens of the union have learned how to use the right to petition. a key theme in 2011 was environmental law, where we urgently need better communication between national authorities, the european union and the citizens concerned, in order to resolve many cases in advance.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the president of the european parliament on the 2013 budget: activities of the conciliation committee.
president. - the debate is closed. - ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the 21 day period for budgetary conciliation provided for in article 314 of the treaty expired at midnight last tuesday. the council and parliament delegations were unable to agree on a joint text. the budgetary procedure for the 2013 budget, based on the draft presented by the commission, has thus failed provisionally. as the treaty provides for such a case, it is now up to the commission to submit a new draft. the commission has already announced that it will make a new proposal on friday of this week, 23 november, in the hope that the council and parliament, as equal parts of the budgetary authority, can still agree on a compromise a compromise that will allow the entry into force of an ordinary budget for 2013 on 1 january next year. let me make it clear that the european parliament is of course aware of its responsibility in the budgetary procedure and, like the european commission, is seeking agreement. we are aware that in the event of non-unification, a twelfth budget is a viable option for the next financial year, but it is certainly not the ideal one. however, parliament can no longer give its consent to an agreement at any price! we're at a crossroads with our budget. we have already relied for the last two years on the assurances given by the member states to accept the council's positions on payments, which were far below the commission's draft for the financial year in question. we have done so in recognition of the difficult budgetary situation in which some of our member states find themselves. it was clear to all the institutions that the union could not and would not cope with this assumed level of payments. that is why, at the end of the budgetary negotiations of the last two years, the council and parliament solemnly declared that all payments which could not be made under the budget adopted would be made quickly and without much ado through a supplementary budget. in a solemn declaration, both parts of the budgetary authority - the parliament and the council - said: 'we want to do this quickly and without much hesitation.' i would now like to read this statement to you. i quote it from the english text:taking into account the ongoing fiscal consolidation efforts in member states, the council and the european parliament agree on a reduction of the level of payment appropriations for 2012 as compared to the commission's draft budget. they ask the commission to request additional payment appropriations in an amending budget if the appropriations entered in the 2012 budget are insufficient. the council and the european parliament will take position on any draft amending budget as quickly as possible in order to avoid any shortfall in payment appropriations. ladies and gentlemen, this is not a statement by a bunch of crazy members of parliament, this is a statement by the member states of the european union. this is where we are now. the commission has bills to pay for the 2012 financial year from cohesion, from the social fund, from science, from the erasmus programme, bills that now have to be paid, in the amount of eur 9 billion. just to emphasise once again, the need for additional payments for 2012, and here only by 31 october, is not based on estimates or assumptions, but on legal obligations that the commission has to fulfil. in order to be able to seriously negotiate the 2013 budget, the 2012 financial year must first be properly closed. without knowing how many unpaid invoices are still outstanding on 31 december 2012, it is not possible to make a serious decision about the budgetary needs for 2013. however, member states have failed to provide credible assurances by the end of the conciliation period that they are prepared to stick to their own statement on the 2012 budget made in november 2011 and to make up the missing 9 billion. but unlike in traditional budgetary negotiations, there can be no concessions here. if i have bills to pay of 9 billion, i cannot limit myself to offering 2, 3 or 4 billion as the maximum amount. but the member states did so until tuesday evening last week. on this basis, no agreement could be reached with parliament, because what the member states are asking us to do is to adopt a deficit budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we don't solve the problem of 2012 and roll over too many outstanding bills to 2013 - and note that we'll have to pay interest on them - we'll have unsolvable problems in 2013. ladies and gentlemen, this is no longer proper housekeeping! this is not sound financial management, which we are obliged to do under the financial regulation. it is therefore clear that the 2013 budget must be sufficient to meet all payment commitments for the following year. any remaining claims from 2012, such as those covering the months of october and november of the current year, will require additional fresh appropriations to be made available in the budget. the european parliament will also fight for its priorities of growth, competitiveness and employment. the commission's draft budget certainly needs to be improved in this respect, also in the area of commitment appropriations, for example in category 1a. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. we are prepared to work constructively and seriously with the council to find a rapid solution to the outstanding issues. we also want a budget for 2013. we are open to negotiation and we are hopeful that, once the commission's new draft has been presented and the procedure has been resumed, the council will also accept that it has to pay its own bills. finally, a positive word: at least, thanks to the insistence of parliament, we were able to convince the member states that supplementary budget no 5 for 2012 could be adopted quickly, with the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for the victims of the earthquake in italy, amounting to eur 670 million. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr mavroyiannis and i signed this supplementary budget a few minutes ago, so that this money - a real sign of solidarity - can now be made available to the people who are most affected, to the municipalities in emilia-romagna most affected. let us hope that the other budgetary questions can also be resolved positively and that we can vote in the december plenary on a supplementary budget no 6 for 2012 in sufficient quantity and on a sound budget for 2013. ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by saying: the budgetary procedure has been new to me, at least in my capacity as president of this house. i learned a lot. i have learned most about the contradiction between the concept of 'the council' and the reality of its members. the council is not mr mavroyiannis, nor are all the member states, but there are some member states in the council who are not prepared to live up to their own promises, member states who are prepared to lead us into a budget deficit, that is to say, to demand from us what they have negligently practised for too long and too often in their national budgets. i am glad that our budgetary officers in this house - and i believe that the overwhelming majority of the house - are not prepared to accept such a procedure here. (applause from the centre)
question for the commissioner: i would like to ask the honourable member what she would call a debtor in business who, when asked to pay his debts, says: 'i cannot afford it'.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to join my colleagues in saying that old bills that are still outstanding must be settled and that we should avoid making them more expensive by adding interest, since the credibility of citizens is not enhanced by the fact that we do not pay their applications, for which we have promised them legal certainty and promised them money. it is therefore imperative that this supplementary budget be drawn up. however, we will have the problem in 2013 that if the budget is too low, we will end up with an even higher supplementary budget, because the commitment appropriations of previous years will eventually fall back on us and we will have to bear the corresponding consequences in terms of financial performance. i fully understand the crisis, but if we really want to make a difference, we will have to discuss the question of commitment appropriations and how to deal with them in the context of the multiannual financial framework. but you can't solve the past by ultimately questioning the law. i am very grateful to the council and the cypriot presidency for the intensive negotiations.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will be very brief. as stated already, before the end of this week the commission will come up with a new proposal based on what we have heard from both the council and parliament. we all know how time is of the essence here, and it is our view in the commission that if the political will is there it is actually still possible to have the budget that we need for 2013. i also take from this debate that we all know that that is the least our citizens would expect from us at this stage. not to be able to agree on that would not look good; it would not do anybody any good. that is what we will be working very hard to achieve over the coming weeks and months that we have left.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank you for this encouraging exchange of views. whilst we would all have preferred it if the negotiations had reached a successful outcome by the end of the conciliation period, i think we all share a desire to return to the discussions and are committed to working for a positive outcome by the end of the year. as a matter of fact, the end of the conciliation last week without result signalled also the beginning of an intensive effort and a commitment not to give up, but to continue doing our utmost to reach agreement. in this regard, mr president, i should like to express my sincere appreciation to alain lamassoure, as chair of the committee on budgets, and your colleagues in the european parliament for the prevailing constructive spirit, as well as to commissioner lewandowski and the commission. this year’s annual budgetary procedure takes place under very difficult circumstances. for that reason, particular efforts are required from all sides if we are to reach agreement and establish a realistic and balanced budget for 2013. the cyprus presidency of the council, and i personally, will do our utmost to achieve a positive outcome by the end of this year. i would add that we look to the commission to play its traditional role as honest broker, and i particularly count on commissioner lewandowski in relation to both the new draft budget, which he is currently preparing, and the facilitation of our subsequent discussions. i thank you once more for your attention and your understanding.
a writer. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the council is not the only institution in the world which is trying to achieve this. it is good practice and tradition that we adopt a joint resolution in the run-up to climate conferences, that we prepare the delegation. we had a final meeting yesterday, attended by the commissioner and also by the president of the house. this was a first, as experienced colleagues have told me. this was also a strong signal that he sent out with his contribution that the full backing of the house is guaranteed here and that we are taking on an important task at the cop-18 conference by discussing with as many international representatives as possible and also doing persuasive work because we have to do that! i hope we will have a strong resolution with clear answers in our baggage, which we will take out and adopt tomorrow. we owe these answers to ourselves, because the only way to fight climate change is to work together and to stop it is to work together internationally. the conference will be held in doha from 26 november to 7 december, and i am curious to see how china will behave, how the united states will behave with the new, old president. how will they line up? how will we then respond to the questions raised, etc.? we have just had an interesting debate on the future financing of europe. we are also having this debate in doha, because as we know, money is the end of friendship; but with climate change, it's really just getting started. we need to answer how the fast start period will be financed after 2012. it's going to take a lot of money. but it's also important to keep repeating that the trick with climate change is that it doesn't have an immediate impact. even if we were to decide tomorrow to reduce co2 emissions by 50% immediately, the effects would not be seen for a long time. that's why climate change and the financial crisis have one thing in common: they're going to cost a lot of money. if we wait longer and longer, even internationally, and if we fail to get something useful going in doha, it will cost the world community a lot of money and probably also a lot of people suffering, if not even costing lives. that's why we're doomed to succeed! but we should not ask too much, that's clear. we've learned in the last few conferences that we have to take small steps. but the biggest step that the developed world needs to take is to finance and secure future adaptation and climate action. clearly, we are on track to reach the 2°c target. but if we continue on the current path, we're more likely to end up at 3.5 degrees or 4 degrees, and no expert can tell us exactly what the number of degrees is at which we're causing irreparable damage to this globe. i am very grateful to the commissioner. we have had a long debate over the last week about how we are going to proceed internally with our emissions trading system. but there is a movement on an international level in various sectors. it is good that we are setting the course for air traffic here in the ep as soon as possible before the conference. this is an international business. and if there is a chance of reaching a global agreement on this, we should also - as the commissioner has so nicely emphasized - stop the clock. but clearly just stop! we must ensure that something useful is negotiated internationally and that a useful decision is reached at icao, and then we will have an international agreement. otherwise, the clock will be reset in the autumn of next year and the legislation will continue as it is. i would also like to say to those who have commented that this is a 'knock-on' - 'knock-on' is different - that this was a wise decision and that we should support it as a parliament. i think that this also has a signal effect for the debates in doha and shows once again that we are prepared to compromise at this point. the area of climate diplomacy, which we in the environment committee have included in the resolution, is also an important point, that is to say that we are pursuing the subject at all levels, including the european external action service, and that it is a recurring topic of discussion at all international meetings. the parliamentary delegation is very well prepared. i hope that everyone, including the commission, will fully integrate the parliament's delegation into the daily briefings and that we will have a lively exchange. our role in doha will be to convince as many colleagues as possible who have responsibilities outside the european union of our ideas and to promote a global agreement to launch the second commitment period. this will be crucial to combating climate change and to achieving success.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am grateful for this opportunity to discuss with you the climate change conference in doha, which is now less than a week away. i particularly appreciate the excellent work undertaken by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and would like to thank matthias groote and his co-rapporteurs for their excellent work and for the resolution on which you will be voting tomorrow. this provides us with valuable input into the process. doha will be a success if it maintains and builds upon the delicate balance achieved in durban. it needs specifically to bring to a successful close the negotiated tracks under the kyoto protocol and convention and to make significant progress on the two workstreams of the durban platform track. this means increasing the level of mitigation ambition prior to 2020, and devising a new global agreement by 2015 to come into effect by 2020. let me be clear from the outset. doha will not be the end point but rather the next step in a gradual process which has been underway since copenhagen and which aims at securing a global, legally binding agreement which will apply as from 2020. the objective of these negotiations continues to be to ensure that global temperature increases remain well below 2°c. we must ensure that this commitment is respected and put into effect. on the doha package itself, the first element would be the adoption of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. this will enable a second commitment period to start on 1 january 2013 and allow for a smooth transition towards the implementation of a wider legally binding framework as from 2020. it is encouraging that australia has announced that it intends to join this second commitment period. i would encourage other developed countries, such as new zealand, which have not yet done so, to do the same. the second element of the doha package will be the closure of the convention track. at the cancun and durban conferences new institutions relating to financing, technology and adaptation were created. these must now become fully operational. we will also need to decide where to handle those issues which will not be resolved in doha, such as the review, shared vision and the further evaluation of the new market-based mechanism. doha will provide the eu with the opportunity to demonstrate that it is on track to meet its fast-start finance pledge over the period 2010-2012 and enable us to work constructively on ways to increase financing between 2013 and 2020. the third and final element is the durban platform for enhanced action, where we need to make significant progress in doha on two areas of work. firstly, we need to increase the level of mitigation ambition in the period before 2020. there are various ways in which this might be done. they include international cooperative partnership on energy efficiency, renewable energy, short-lived climate pollutants and hydrofluorocarbons. we hope that the forthcoming report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change will provide increased momentum in this area. secondly, further progress is needed towards reaching a global agreement by 2015. in doha we must agree milestones for 2013 and the subsequent two years. the eu is open to a second commitment period in durban. we are also pushing strongly for a high level of ambition and for a global agreement by 2015. this is why our role will be critical and why i am convinced that we can help ensure a successful outcome to the conference. i know that we can count on the support and commitment of this parliament. the presidency looks forward to seeing some of you in doha and we will be available to provide regular briefings on the spot as the negotiations progress.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, minister, let me first thank you for the draft resolution on doha and the continued support from parliament and a very strong dedication to try to give europe a strong voice in these international negotiations. i would also like to thank mr groote for his remarks and his very strong support. i am also looking forward to working with parliament when we come to doha. some people tend to believe that while we have been so busy handling the economic crisis, maybe the climate crisis miraculously solved itself or just went away. for those people, there was some serious news today when the united nations environment programme (unep) presented its new emissions gap report and nobody should be surprised that it clearly shows that we are not coming closer to where we needed to be now. we are distancing ourselves from it when we talk about it worldwide. the gap is widening. this is the context in which the doha conference will be held. that is of course also why we must do everything we can in doha to secure the hard-won progress last year in durban. the very carefully crafted package in durban must be kept and we must move forward with the climate agenda. among other things this means that we must adopt a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol as part of the transition to the new future regime. we must agree the next steps towards adopting a legally binding agreement applicable to all parties by 2015, including through a streamlined negotiation process so that all negotiations can take place under the durban platform. this means that the ad hoc working group on long-term cooperative action (awg-lca) should be closed down and that when we leave doha the focus will be on what should be the content in the 2015 agreement. then of course – very importantly as well – we must address the mitigation gap and raising mitigation ambition also in the period up to 2020. on the kyoto protocol, i think there can be no doubt that europe is ready to sign up to that. we can do immediate application. there is not doubt about that. i know that some say that you can also ratify when you come to doha, but some of you will recall why in bali in 2007 the whole world agreed that we should agree the new future regime at the latest by 2009 because we all knew that it would take years to ratify whatever the outcome. that is of course still the case: ratification processes take some time and i think that more and more parties outside europe understand that we have legal democratic procedures that we have to follow but the reality is that, as of 1 january, we will apply a new second commitment period and follow the kyoto rules and legislation. of course it is important for this conference of the parties (cop) in doha not to be reduced to a kyoto cop only. it must also deliver progress on the other elements of the package from durban. we are working hard to reach agreement on outstanding kyoto issues including the length of the second commitment period, access to kyoto market mechanisms as well as environmental integrity related to the carry-over of assigned amount unit carbon credits (aaus) from the first commitment period. to make progress towards the 2015 agreement the eu has called for submissions and further informal sessions early next year in order to take forward key emerging themes. a major challenge for next year will be to explore how all parties will take on legally binding mitigation commitments in a way which is fair and consistent with their responsibilities and capabilities while being consistent with the science and thereby with the 2° target. in that respect we need to encourage our partner countries to start preparing for domestic policies accordingly or the consequence will be that we have a nice 2° target that we will not manage to stay below. it is clear that when we leave doha there must be a very clear idea, a very clear plan of who will have to do what and when between now and 2015 in order to get the agreement done by 2015. let me also say that we are all afraid of this looking into ‘low ambition’ and for many good reasons, also many developing countries are very concerned about that. that is why we have tried to push the incoming qatari presidency very much to secure that we will get a ministerial round table in doha where ministers will sit down and discuss how to add on to ambition, and there are numerous things we could do. the cyprus minister already mentioned some of them. we could also have cooperation on phasing out fossil fuel subsidies; we could include new gases. there are a whole range of things which can be done – also in the shorter term – and that is what we will want to push for. sustainable energy for all as a follow-up to rio+20 is another example of things that would serve several purposes at the one time, including the climate purpose. can i say on climate financing there is no doubt that it is also very important when we come to doha that we can prove in black and white – and we will present such a report proving this – that in europe we have actually delivered on our fast-start climate financing pledges from copenhagen. we have at this stage delivered a bit more than eur 7.1 billion out of the eur 7.2 billion pledged, and i know that the two remaining countries who have not yet come up with their bit for 2012 are working very hard to ensure that that can happen before doha. i also strongly hope that the eu will maintain its efforts next year and in the coming years. this could also be secured by further mainstreaming climate considerations into development policy, but we should not fool ourselves. we will very much be watched to see whether some of our member states and the eu as such are ready now, in doha, to send some very clear signals about what can be expected financially in the years after the fast-start financing. as you know the durban package was only possible because a group of countries drawn from all regional groupings and representing the ‘centre of gravity’, so to speak, came together last year in the spirit of ambition and compromise. in the year since durban i have tried to continue to work with this group. the commission and the then presidency, denmark, convened a meeting in brussels last may and we repeated that exercise with our good friends and allies among the developing countries in a session in new york. we are really trying to work together where we have shared interests in order to maximise pressure on those who need to move their position. finally, mr president, not all climate conferences, not all climate cops, are very spectacular and can deliver very grand decisions, but that does not mean that they are not important. in durban last year we knew that when we would meet in doha it would be immediately after an american election, it would be just after the appointment of a new chinese leadership. in that sense you can say that it is a preparatory cop where we are laying the building blocks for the future regime and trying to make progress on that. i really hope that is what we will achieve in doha: handling the elements, creating the building blocks for the 2015 agreement which is incredibly important and in that sense that doha will continue to deliver on future steps. i think that in order to achieve that, it is as important as it was last year and in the previous years that we can speak with one voice in europe and that we have this very good cooperation: parliament, presidency and council and the european commission. i think that last year we proved how much we can achieve when we all take part in the work in doha. i look forward to your cooperation when we come to those two challenging weeks ahead of us.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to emphasize that there was indeed a remarkable speech by president schulz yesterday. i liked her a lot. i do not think that it was just a back-up for the delegation to doha, but that in his speech there were very clear warnings to remember that in the whole climate policy the competitiveness of european industry must also be maintained or even reinforced in some corners. so i liked that speech. mr president-in-office of the council, i have already heard many words of praise today, including from you personally, and i was very pleased to hear that, but the council as such was not at all united in doha, and we were on the verge of europe breaking apart over a single issue and we were going home in a ridiculous fashion. we have prevented this, but europe is not as united as we present it today, madam commissioner. i would like to protect you with these critical words because there are some member states which are not on the right track and we must get them on the right track. the conference is always held just before christmas, and in recent years - i have been attending for 20 years now - unfortunately, there has been a lack of parliament's wish list at these conferences. we've given up this nonsense. we are now in the process of making moderate proposals which are aimed at getting other people to join us, to raise their hands for some sort of regulation. the principles we agreed in doha - that was hard enough - are now to be applied to actual facts, and we still have a long way to go. this is not going to be a simple conference. but it can be a success if we take the right steps in the right directions, and that certainly includes climate diplomacy. the european energy industry as a whole produces 40 million tonnes of energy, and the burning forests in south america three times as much. so if we treat our industry here as zero emission, we still won't save the world. so the diplomacy has to come. lady ashton needs to move on this issue, the council needs to be fixed, then we can rightly say we've done something good for our children. if this keeps up and we're just relying on principles, then we're not worth the money we're making here.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the last climate summits have not brought about substantial improvements. small island states and least developed countries remain an existential threat from climate change. the green climate fund agreed in doha in 2010 needs to be set up, and in addition a decision is needed on the kyoto protocol, which expires at the end of 2012. according to the world bank, the global south needs $100 billion a year to adapt to the impacts of climate change by 2014. it is clear that the industrialized countries must be responsible for financing. as long as the industrialized and emerging countries do not agree but block each other, doha will not have any positive results for the world climate. climate action must first be taken at national level and in our case at european level. the eu must raise its greenhouse gas reduction target for 2020 to 40% of 1990 levels and increase the share of renewable energy to 45% by 2030.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has worked out very precisely in its enlargement strategy for this year what is important. the rapporteur has once again made this point very well. it is important to have political credibility, to be honest with eu citizens and the citizens of the candidate countries, and to have clarity on the criteria to be met before joining the eu! we cannot pursue a policy without taking account of public opinion in the eu member states. public opinion in many countries is sceptical about further enlargements. it is therefore the task of the politicians - not just the commission, but also us - to make this accession process clear and explain it even better than before at home. the successful conclusion of accession negotiations will have brought a long road of reforms behind it, and it will have adopted a large number of legal bases in the political field. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council by the end of the year. that's why we should send a clear signal. firstly, we want to keep the door to the eu open to european countries, because an enlarged eu brings us all security, democracy and prosperity. secondly, we should all support those who are on the road to accession. and thirdly, the speed of the accession process depends on the speed with which the accession criteria can be met and implemented. we know from our experience that discounts are not helpful at this point. if i may say one thing to my german colleagues at home and here: do we germans not always act as if we had to pay for everything in the end? we have earned so much from enlargement that we can take the next steps with a friendly attitude!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i agree with mrs koppa and many speakers that enlargement is, on the whole, a great success for the european union. we must keep our promises, as those made in thessalonica did. but it is equally clear, also from experience, that the conditions must be met if there is to be no failure. and the larger the european union, the more important it is that the conditions must be met. otherwise, you have to think about alternatives and intermediate solutions. the copenhagen criteria also include the european union's ability to enlarge. this is sometimes not taken into account. it is particularly important in this crisis to take into account that enlargement too quickly, without the conditions being fully met, weakens the european union. it is in this crisis that it should be made clear that the consolidation of the european union is a great task which we must face. and i believe that the consolidation of the european union is also somewhat conditional on future enlargements, because it has to do with the european union's ability to enlarge.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the eu has won the nobel peace prize, and i do not want to question its achievements, as in the reconciliation after the second world war. but the reports we have are speaking a different language. the so-called assistance clause effectively makes the eu a military alliance, and the solidarity clause includes military intervention in member states in the event of man-made disasters. so i ask you in this room: would a europe-wide general strike be such a man-made disaster? will german soldiers soon be attacking striking workers in greece? the implementation of the csdp annual report's demands would mean a quantum leap in the eu's military development, an expansion of military interventions worldwide, and then probably with a robust mandate. much of this, like the member states' commitment to armament, is the implementation of the lisbon treaty. i am saying that the european left was right to reject this treaty and will continue to campaign for a change in the treaty's foundations.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the last point is a very good indication of what we must do differently. if we eliminate parallel structures and use synergies in procurement, research and other things, if we don't have to do everything, but we do our work in a division of labour, we can do more with less money. if you look at the fact that we have armies in europe where 60, 70, 80 per cent of the members of the military are doing administrative work, and if you look at how many soldiers there are in europe and how many of them are actually able to serve, then it becomes clear how much money is being wasted here. the member states say that the european budget must be cut, but we could save so much money in the defence sector by exploiting the synergy effects, cooperation, division of labour, that it would be several times what we are currently discussing in terms of savings in the normal budget. i believe that for these reasons some national peculiarities, habits and vanities need to be discussed. we must also use the findings of national budgetary policy-makers to achieve this better european representation in the field of security and defence policy, so that we can act in this way. i was in moscow last week . they're laughing at us because we can't get anything together. in order to be not only the global payer but also the global player, we should come together on this issue!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr brok rightly pointed out the added value that could be achieved if we cooperated more in the field of security and defence. the danjean report gives some examples, for example, we call on member states to be more cooperative in pooling and sharing, as was also confirmed in the council conclusions at the beginning of this week. in 2011, the european military staff presented a list of around 300 projects. the eu is currently pursuing only 11 projects. you have to wonder what happened to the others. why are the member states not prepared to take responsibility as lead nations? another example: in may 2012, lady ashton presented the aerial refuelling project at the nato summit in chicago as a major contribution to filling the eu and nato capability gaps. the recent council conclusions have also highlighted the progress made in this field. i wonder, however, what skills gaps have been closed so far? the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. germany supports this initiative, but at the same time there is no national recognition of the need for new aerial refuelling capabilities. at the beginning of the week, the uk and germany did not sign the memorandum of understanding on the implementation of a european strategic air transport and participation initiative. so how do these announcements and the omissions fit together? i hope that the council conclusions, which also relate to the summit on defence next year, will then also help to ensure that parliament's demands in this area are reflected in the summit document.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. mr president, madam president-in-office of the council! i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur. i think this is a great report, which brilliantly illustrates the many facets of the relationship with kazakhstan. thank you very much. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all - and the president-in-office has pointed this out - what is at stake is kazakhstan's accession to the wto, which means, of course, that it will ultimately accept and implement the wto rules and also be subject to the wto regime as regards dispute settlement procedures. this is an important step towards transparency and fairness. secondly, when we talk about transparency and fairness, we also talk about the question of raw materials. given the situation that kazakhstan's economy is mainly focused on raw materials, the aim is to create a reasonable fiscal and financial framework, but also not to forget the environmental side, in order to guarantee raw material extraction in the interests of the people of kazakhstan, but also in the interests of the environment. thirdly, there is the question of phosphorus. it is not possible for phosphorus to be exported under dumping conditions and thus to end up undermining structures within the european union. we want a deal, but it has to be fair, on reasonable terms. the fourth point: as in all the trade agreements we conclude, trade also means fair conditions of competition in the field of workers' rights and environmental standards. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam foreign minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs jaakonsaari, and also the shadow rapporteurs, who have made constructive cooperation possible. as the epp shadow rapporteur, i would like to expressly support this new and deepened partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and kazakhstan. in order to take account of the extremely important role of kazakhstan in the region, in political, economic and geostrategic terms, both sides wish to further deepen cooperation. our values, such as respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, are the foundation of any eu relationship with our partners in the world. for this reason, the kazakhstan agreement should also clearly include the protection and promotion of human rights in accordance with international standards. the eu must follow up on the reforms and provide active, including technical, support for their implementation. the focus will be on building an active civil society, a functioning administration of the rule of law and an education system. political pluralism, in which opposition parties and civil society can express their views freely and without hindrance, is a foundation of any democracy. this deepened agreement is particularly important in view of the diversification of economic relations and the intensification of political relations in the area of tension between east and west - and this includes russia and china. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not we know that statement. we have read the e-mail from an ngo, but we have also been consulting the european external action service. there are no fixed statements. there are reports that it is. i know from the ead that there will be intensive research here. we have had a very intensive discussion on this subject in the epp group. we have tabled an oral amendment with the rapporteur, mrs jaakonsaari, which we will table jointly and for which we are asking for support.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. five years ago, the eu's central asia strategy was launched. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we see that the member states individually are striving to establish good economic relations, particularly with the resource-rich countries of the region, but that the efforts to assist these countries in their process of transformation into modern democratic societies are not making progress or are even backward, as recent events in kazakhstan show. nevertheless, or for that very reason, the european union and the member states must jointly increase their influence in this region. the commission has also been active in the field of energy policy, and has been active in the field of energy policy in the past. the eu's isolation of kazakhstan would only allow competitors for influence in this geopolitically important country, who are less interested in pressing for respect for civil and human rights, to exert their influence even more strongly than before. the link between economic interests and the promotion of civil rights is at the heart of the central asia strategy. this should also be the basis for further negotiations on a partnership and cooperation agreement with kazakhstan. this report provides a good guide to this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we are not just discussing data protection here today. we are talking about the future of police and judicial cooperation in europe. for years, the home ministers have been promoting crossborder cooperation between law enforcement agencies. it is not wrong, it is necessary! however, over the years, the european parliament has repeatedly stressed the need for common standards on the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights. but the ministers of the interior of our 27 governments, who are unfortunately not here, are still ignoring these demands. instead, they promote a near-blind trust in the legal order of the eu countries through the principle of mutual recognition of police action. they ignore the fact that there are still dramatic differences in standards between member states, including and especially in data protection. the present draft directive on police data protection in europe is intended to finally put an end to this misunderstanding. it is certainly not a great leap forward for the rights of the data subject, but it would be an important first step in ending the dangerous race to the bottom in police data protection. the ever-increasing exchange of information is creating the danger of massive violations of fundamental rights. the council of ministers, however, refuses to take an active and prompt part in the drafting of the data protection directive. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union. we need common minimum standards to promote closer cooperation between police and justice.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not ladies and gentlemen of the absent council! perhaps you are watching us on the parliament's video stream, as you clearly have neither the capacity nor the desire to speak to us live. i regard the council's absence here today as a gross disregard for parliament. instead of hiding behind this debate, you should rather reveal your secret, which is why you refuse to improve the protection of personal data in the police and judicial sector by means of a directive. police and law enforcement have been - we know this - a torrent of data breaches for years, not just at swift, but for example on a daily basis, by illegally collecting and storing data from citizens demonstrating against nazis, for example. we need the same standards of protection for the public and private sectors, for the police and the judiciary, in order to guarantee civil rights. if you, the council, ask parliament to play a constructive role in regulations such as the eu-pna or europol, then the same must apply to the council. i therefore ask you to put an end to the blocking policy in the area of data protection.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not sure that this is the case. as rapporteur for the situation of wild salmon in the baltic sea, i should like to refer in the first place to this part of our debate. in fact, the stock is in very poor condition. the reduction in the fishing quota, which has been carried out by the scientists in particular in conjunction with the rac, is dramatic: almost 80%. this quota is calculated not in tonnes but in units. and then, of course, when we talk about fishing mortality, we have to take all aspects into account. it is necessary to include tourist and recreational fishing and to provide for the same control measures as for commercial fishing. there's no question about that. if we want to introduce log books for fishing vessels over 12 metres in length, then this must also be done in all areas. salmon, which in particular live in the gulf of bothnia and the central basin of the baltic sea, naturally also need to go to their spawning grounds. to do this, he has to walk up the rivers, especially in sweden. before he reaches the estuary, he has to overcome his natural enemies. these are the seals, the cone seals, lurking there, as it were, daringly. when he has survived, he swims upstream, then comes the sport fishermen and recreational fishermen, then the hydroelectric power stations already mentioned, and only then his spawning grounds. we must keep all this in mind, because that means sustainable fishing. we must also take action, set up a management plan, and replenish the stocks with smolt, because salmon is not only a very good food fish, but this species must not go extinct! we want to keep them in the baltic sea! msy maximum sustainable yield, this is the way scientific research is done, including racs. but we also need everyone to participate in these regional advisory councils, including the ngos. we had a meeting with the north sea rac recently and they told us that the ngos had not been to a single meeting. i would ask them to take part in this and in our common fisheries policy, which is a great responsibility for us as europeans!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. our report on small-scale fisheries shows that we have a heart for traditional and artisanal fishermen and that we listen to them. traditional fisheries create more jobs per kilo of fish caught and produce less co2 than industrial fisheries. the lobby of small fishermen is weaker. we must therefore always ensure that they are not disadvantaged, for example, in the allocation of quotas. we shall also vote tomorrow on parliament's position on our external fisheries relations. this report should be the basis for our future decisions on fisheries agreements, for example. i am glad that, with one exception, all the groups were able to agree on a text. now a minority has drafted a resolution which hopefully will be rejected by the majority. i'm feeling pretty good about the shark-finning. the epp seems to be joining the majority opinion at the last minute. shark-finning must be stopped in the eu without any loopholes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have heard very interesting reports today on the fisheries reform and i would like to comment on three of them. firstly, we all know that fishing is one of the oldest crafts in the world. and today, fishing is still in many ways the work of small and mediumsized enterprises and craftsmen. we always put small and mediumsized enterprises at the centre of our policy in europe and that is why i think it is good that in this case the report has been very much geared to their needs. that's one thing. the second is the external dimension of fisheries policy: fish is already an important source of protein for many developing countries and their people. and it is therefore very important, because the world population is growing, to pay even more attention in the future to the fact that the people who need fish locally as a source of protein can actually catch the fish off their coast themselves and that only what is beyond that is actually available to european fishermen, for example, under fisheries agreements. and lastly, i think shark finning is not good, it's barbaric, and it should be abolished. we're pretty much on the same page.
in writing. – the population of salmon has dramatically decreased over the past few years, provoked by pollution, some caused by man-made problems, as well as by extensive exploitation of salmon stocks. that is why there is an obvious need for a sustainable approach in fisheries management with regard to salmon stocks in the baltic sea. dealing with this issue, the gróbarczyk report suggests that the baltic salmon stock should be exploited in a sustainable way, according to the principle of maximum sustainable yield. i agree with the rapporteur’s proposal to ensure diversity and integrity in management of the salmon stock.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. europe is not just a building. europe is a democracy! we claim to be one of the strongest democracies on earth, and the essence of any democracy is that all governmental power comes from the people. every community needs strong institutions, strong decisions, but what matters is that and how these are tied to the will of the citizens. the more we do that, the stronger a democracy is. the aim today is to make the european elections more of a decision on future european policy. the aim is to make citizens aware of the close link between their choice of elections and what is decided and implemented as european policy in the years to come. so the question is: let me say this ad personam: where does this mr barroso come from? he was voted out of office after the election, but never before had he been nominated as a candidate for the european commission. is this something where you can say to the citizens: 'we have told you clearly what policy will be made, you had the choice, this was your decision'? no, the citizens feel they are voting, but then things happen that they have no control over. we must strengthen this link. we must also make it our duty to make european elections genuinely european elections, not to misuse them for purely national campaigns, but to run with european candidates, with european programmes. that is what we are trying to achieve with this motion for a resolution. we want the political families to say before the elections who their candidate is for the post of president of the european commission, the most powerful post in our common europe. we want them to meet, to formulate political platforms, to give their political visions of a common europe a face in the elections. all this will help to strengthen the legitimacy of the various positions in europe, but also the political debate. we want the future president of the commission to be chosen from among these top candidates in the light of the election results, that is to say, the political family which has done the best in the elections will be the one to choose the future president of the commission. we also want the commission to be composed of at least half of the members of parliament in future, and we want a number of other measures to strengthen the influence of citizens on the composition of the commission and thus on european policy.
president of the court of auditors. − mr president, it is a great honour for me to present to this parliament today the annual report on the implementation of the 2011 european union budget. i will start with its main conclusions. the 2011 accounts present fairly the financial position of the european union, the results of its operations and its cash flows for that year. revenue and commitments for payments were free from material error. however, payments were affected by material error, with an estimated error rate of 3.9 % for the european union budget as a whole. the estimated level for 2010 was similar at 3.7 %. put simply, the court found too many examples of european union spending not hitting the target or being used sub-optimally. this annual report’s message is consistent with previous years. despite an overall fall in the estimated error rate over the current programme period, there remains scope to spend european union money more efficiently and in a better targeted manner in many different areas and schemes and expenditure programmes. overall, the control systems examined by the court were found to be only partially effective and not realising their full potential to prevent or detect and correct errors. the two areas – or ‘policy groups’ – with the highest estimated error rate were ‘rural development, environment, fisheries and health’, where the error rate was estimated at 7.7 %, and the policy group ‘regional policy, energy and transport’, where the error rate was estimated at 6.0 %. in these areas, as in all areas under shared management, national authorities operate the first – and most important – line of defence in protecting the financial interests of eu citizens. but the court found many instances of control failure at member state level. for example, in the majority of transactions in regional policy where the court found errors, sufficient information was available for the member state authorities to have detected and corrected at least some of those errors before claiming reimbursement from the commission. that said, the court also found similar problems in certain areas directly managed by the commission, including the policy group ‘research and internal policies’, where the court estimated the error rate to be 3%. the court notes in this report that the commission’s directors-general have also recognised a high risk of error in rural development, cohesion and research. they increased their estimate of the spending at risk of irregularity from eur 400 million in 2010 to eur 2 billion in 2011. there have been improvements over the current programming period, but there is still some way to go before european union financial management is up to standard in all areas of the european union budget. many of the problems we have identified in the past still remain, albeit to a lesser extent. in fact, the fall in the court’s estimated error rate for the european budget as a whole under the current framework shows that improving the rules and design of spending schemes from one period to the next does make a difference. and now, with legislative proposals for the next framework period under discussion, there is a golden opportunity to address their underlying causes. for many years, the court has called for single schemes with clearer objectives, easier-to-measure results, and more cost-effective control arrangements. this year’s annual report confirms this message. member states and parliament must now agree better rules for how european union money is spent, and member states and the commission must enforce them properly. in this way, the european union budget could be used more efficiently and effectively to deliver greater added value for citizens. at the same time as considering the legislative proposals for the next financial framework period, european institutions and member states are also engaged in setting up new european systems, mechanisms and governance arrangements in other domains related to public financial management, notably regarding the supervision of the financial system and the coordination of fiscal and economic policies. the success of these initiatives will depend also on ensuring that the necessary democratic legitimacy and accountability arrangements are in place. in the court’s view, appropriate public scrutiny and audit of all public funds put at stake to meet the european union objectives is a key component that must be clearly safeguarded from the outset of such initiatives. ensuring sound public finances has never been more important for the european union. the court is committed to contributing, as best it can, to the european union’s efforts to achieve this important goal, through our work and the annual report that i have had the honour to present to you today.
member of the commission. − madam president, president caldeira, mr rapporteur, honourable members of the parliament and of the court of auditors, the annual report of the court of auditors is published at a time when the legislative and budgetary authorities are about to finalise the design and the resources for the next multiannual financial framework. drawing lessons from previous budgetary discharge procedures, new management and control mechanisms were proposed for the future programmes. the new financial regulation introduces considerable reforms, focusing strongly on european added value and simplification. the commission proposals for the next programming period aim also at strengthening the accountability of all financial actors. finally, cost-effective control mechanisms were proposed throughout all eu programmes. these measures are likely to address effectively the weaknesses and errors which are currently observed. at the presentation of the court’s annual report in the budgetary control committee earlier this month, members of this house asked themselves what they could do to improve further the situation. i would like to stress that you – this parliament – have already substantially contributed to that goal. firstly, getting the error rate from 7.3% in 2006 to 3.9% in 2011 can be explained largely by the follow-up given by the commission to your recommendations. it serves to demonstrate the usefulness and added value of a constructive dialogue between the commission and the discharge authority. secondly, the substantial improvements in the new financial regulation would have been impossible to achieve without the very strong cooperation between our two institutions. thirdly, we still have to get the other proposals adopted by the co-legislators, including programmes under shared management. the parliament, as discharge authority and co-legislator, has a crucial role to play in promoting sound financial management principles in this context. the council shares with the parliament the responsibility of putting in place a solid legal framework for the next financial period which will guarantee that the sound financial principles are respected. but the council will also issue a recommendation to the parliament on the discharge. this is a unique opportunity to look at what the member states can do specifically, with the commission, to improve the performance of the programmes under shared management. therefore, i call on the current and future presidencies to organise extensive discussions with the member states on these important issues. let me now pass to a few points regarding the court of auditors report on the financial year 2011. firstly, for the fifth consecutive time, the court of auditors has issued an unqualified positive opinion on the annual accounts of the eu. secondly, the overall error rate for all payments made in 2011 remains stable compared with 2010, even though the risk profile of the transactions increased in 2011. thirdly, commitments and revenues for the entire budget are free from material errors. so, moreover, are the payments for external aid, development, enlargement and administrative expenditure. fourthly, following the increased error rate for rural development, a thorough action plan is being implemented to identify, in collaboration with the member states, the root causes of these errors and to address the weaknesses under the current and future programming period. fifthly, the error rate for internal policies increased, up to 3%. the commission is looking into the cases in order to prevent the occurrence of similar problems in the short term. in the longer term, horizon 2020 will lead to further simplification and fewer errors. finally, in cohesion policy the error rate significantly decreased from 7.7% in 2010 to 5.1% in 2011. the report of the court is a clear signal that more has to be done. the commission will focus its supervision and assistance on the riskiest areas and partners, and it will pursue a strict management and control policy for the programmes under its direct responsibility. but the member states have to step up their efforts as well. according to the court, more than 60% of those errors identified for the regional fund and 76% for the european social fund should have been detected by the national authorities before they sent their claims to the commission. the room for improvement there is very clear indeed. there will be no let-up in the efforts of the commission’s services to reduce further the risk of errors. i believe, nonetheless, that it is appropriate to put the estimated error rate into perspective, bearing in mind the main financial responsibility of the commission: to defend the eu’s financial interests. it is essential to stress that the weaknesses identified by the court do not lead to massive loss of money or fraud. this becomes clearer when taking into consideration the multiannual dimension of the spending programmes and their preventive and corrective mechanisms. the commission has recovered or corrected eur 1.84 billion in incorrect payments in 2011. even if those amounts also relate to payments made in previous years, in financial terms these financial corrections and recoveries represent 1.4% of the payments made in 2011. this figure does not yet include amounts recovered or corrected by member states in the area of cohesion following their own audits and controls. the commission will endeavour to get more reliable data from the member states in order to be able to present next year a more complete picture of the corrective measures implemented at eu and national levels. following past discharge recommendations of this house, the commission has taken major steps in order to prevent further errors. in cohesion, the commission decided in 2011 to initiate 13 suspension procedures and to interrupt the deadlines for 105 payments amounting to a total of eur 2.75 billion. these instruments will also be strictly applied in the future. from 2014, they will hopefully be complemented by the net correction mechanism proposed for all programmes under shared management. honourable members of parliament and of the court of auditors, the commission takes its responsibility seriously and will continue its work to achieve better results in the future for the benefit of eu citizens and taxpayers. it will take all necessary measures to address the weaknesses observed by the court and intensify its cooperation with the discharge authority to bring about the anticipated improvements. the role of the member states is essential in this respect, as is their commitment to assuming their responsibility and obligations under shared management. as i have said, i count on the current and next presidencies to contribute actively to this goal in the council.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the court of auditors' annual report, despite all the progress made, is not a cause for alarm. the error rate rises again in 2011, the second consecutive increase. the anomalies in rural development and the cohesion fund are surprisingly high. i find it particularly irritating that 62% of the errors found by the court of auditors should have been found by the member states themselves increasing trend. ladies and gentlemen, we are not building mutual trust in this way, and not by the court of auditors' persistent refusal to publish these error statistics by member state. the report has three implications for me. firstly, it is clearer than ever to me that eu funds must only be channelled into functioning administrations, which means that the commission now has more responsibility for supervision, but also that conditionality in the case of the structural funds and the agricultural funds must be the logical consequence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. no money for unreliable governments and bad administration! secondly, should we not be more specific about the error rates? today, there is still the impression that there is something to hide, and this is not a good sign at a time when the eu is seeking to build trust. thirdly, parliament must be more than just the arbiter between the court of auditors and the commission. we now have joint responsibility for legislation for the first time, for example in the field of agricultural policy and structural policy - the largest budgetary areas. but do we really have the capacity for effective budgetary control - the capacity to meet this new responsibility? the court of auditors, the commission and olaf are powerful, well-designed structures. if we really want independent parliamentary scrutiny, this will require more force from the european parliament as well. at what point, we have to discuss this in the discharge procedure!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank the court of auditors for presenting the annual report, our most important tool in the discharge process for the commission's budget. i would like to thank you very much for a report which is transparent and which will certainly help us in this matter. this report covers the period from 1 january to 31 december 1985. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make a statement on the commission's work, and that the trend towards an error rate that is improving year by year has been halted. but this parliament is still insisting on its demand: we want a clearly visible trend towards an improving error rate in the implementation of the eu budget and we will not accept that. the court of auditors' annual report also sends a clear message to the council, which is meeting tonight to find a compromise for the multiannual financial framework. the failure of management and control systems in the member states, the large amounts of financial corrections that are still to be made, the unnecessary complication of rules in the member states - this shows that if you want better spending and do not use it as a cover for cuts, you can start immediately. if we want better spending, we must improve controls in the member states, not cut the budget. and if you want better spending, you have to do your homework at home, because in germany, the netherlands and the united kingdom too, the control systems - as the court of auditors and the commission have found - are not fully effective. what concerns us about budget management in 2011 is that the figures have deteriorated in certain areas of the budget. in research policy - at least a budgetary area directly managed by the commission - the error rate doubles from 1.4% to 3%. we must ask the commissioner for research to give us an action plan on how the commission intends to reduce these error rates. in the cap, the error rate has so far been close to the materiality threshold of 2%. now the farm estimates the error rate in rural development at an incredible 7.7%. this means that rural development spending has by far the highest error rate of all the areas studied. we cannot take comfort in the fact that the programmes in the member states are now fully mature and that the number of development projects is increasing, and with it, of course, the number of errors. no, we want to see a remedy here, and the directorate-general for agricultural policy and commissioner cioloş should lead the member states as decisively towards better control as regional policy has already done. she's a good example of how root-cause therapy helps. the 6% share of incorrect payments in the total is still too high, but the trend is in the right direction. the 2008 action plan, which significantly strengthened the commission's oversight of national management and control systems, has contributed to this. the commissioner cioloş should therefore also start looking for suggestions for his own action plan to reduce the increasing error rates in agricultural policy. there is also room for improvement in regional policy. we want to see the so-called retrospective projects finally withdrawn from funding. we want the regional policy dg to use the same level of suspension and interruption of support programmes as the employment dg when member states cannot guarantee legal and orderly controls, and we want net corrections: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to transfer funding to other projects only if they themselves detect errors in project management. if, as is so often the case, they are unable to find the errors themselves, then the commission must be responsible for the support.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the court of auditors for the important work it does every year for the european taxpayer. you, mr caldeira, and your court are and will remain a valued partner for us as members of the european parliament, representatives of the discharge authority of the european union. i have to say that i am not in favour of the commission's proposal, but i would like to say that i am in favour of the commission's proposal. the picture is becoming clearer, but some of the grotesque remains. eur 130 billion was available in 2011. 5 billion should never have been paid out. that's a 3.9% failure rate. this is an improvement on the past, but it is still too much. i do not know how these figures can be justified in the face of the tight budgetary position in europe. but there are also positives: the instruments which parliament has put at the disposal of the commission, particularly in recent years, in its reports on discharge are finally being used. they work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. since 2008, empl and its commissioner andor have been implementing a consistent policy of interrupting and suspending payments when ongoing projects simply do not work. the error rate in this area has been reduced to 2.2%. i congratulate you, lord andor. this is a consistent job, you're pretending to be. i would also like to congratulate commissioner šemeta, who is of course also monitoring this. i myself, as the penultimate rapporteur on discharge, and my colleagues in this parliament have also reminded us that funds unduly paid out must be recovered. this is also a measure which is increasingly being applied, and i should like to congratulate you on this. i was able to see through the annual summaries, which we are now allowed to see as members of parliament, and i was convinced that this instrument is working. there are still some things that are not working efficiently. the court of auditors rightly criticised the evaluation report as being too vague. i would like to offer mr geier, the member who is accompanying the discharge this year, the help of all members of parliament to make the procedure even better.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i decided to embarrass myself this morning. firstly, i am ashamed that the council is not here, which claims to have a role in this discharge procedure and that we should respond to its recommendation. he's not here now. secondly, i must say that some of the things that my colleagues have delivered here are of subterranean quality. (applause from the centre) i think we should also talk about what we have not criticized - at least not until now - namely the 96% that have been handled without errors. we must ask ourselves what policy objectives we have achieved. we have mass demonstrations all over europe. what have we achieved in terms of youth unemployment with the money we are making available through the european union? what have we achieved in terms of jobs with the innovation funds for research? what have we achieved with all that we are doing in the member states? that's what i'd like to talk about. i would have liked to have heard more about that, to be honest. it could have been a great moment in the present situation of the european union, when we could show what we can do to make a positive difference. that's for starters. i think we must turn to the discharge procedure and what we have really done and what we can show the citizens and taxpayers as a result. the other part cannot be done without good management in the member states, and it cannot be done in europe either. so, commissioner šemeta, what are we going to do when only one in five payments to the cohesion fund is correct? last year, it was one in four. i think we urgently need a report from you, an overview of how the financial crisis is affecting public administration in the eu member states, because we see that this financial crisis is having an effect on these countries. what are we gonna do? how do we react? how should we respond? i also want us to think about this now and the commission to think about how they can influence future rules. the rules on eligibility for structural funds are laid down by the member states. but if they choose a mode of transport which cannot be controlled afterwards, then we are shooting ourselves in the foot again. the commission must therefore work very closely with the member states to avoid the small disasters which we regret every year.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr jörg leichtfried, who has, in my view, succeeded very well in formulating an approach which all the groups can support. i know from my own experience that the negotiations which you are about to have will not be easy, precisely because some member states are extremely allergic to the subject of delegated acts. while speeches on sundays like to emphasize the importance of the european parliament and the need for it to be given more powers, the same government representatives deny the parliament its role as a legislator with equal rights to the council in the practical adjustment of the legislative procedure. as such, we are prepared to delegate our task to the commission for a limited period in defined cases, but we reserve the right of veto. the council is no longer alone with the commission. i therefore urge the council to abandon its blockade at last. we have already wasted too much time on this subject in some important dossiers.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the so-called omnibus ii is the second procedure, alongside the omnibus i for which i am rapporteur, to adapt european trade legislation to the new provisions of the treaty of lisbon. delegated acts and implementing rules are now finally being incorporated into commercial law. in the light of the delegated acts, it is generally important to me that parliament can exercise its rights to the full. it is not the right signal, however, to demand that parliament's administration staff should attend preparatory meetings of the commission. it requires direct political control by the members of this house. the commission shall ensure that members are informed in good time of any proposed delegated act. i hope that the council will conclude its discussions soon so that we can begin compromise negotiations on omnibus ii as soon as possible. i am also of the opinion - and this has been discussed many times with the rapporteur on omnibus ii - that omnibus i and ii should form a package and, if possible, be negotiated in parallel. i would therefore like to express my particular thanks to mr leichtfried, firstly because we were able to bring your report to the plenary - we have discussed this among ourselves, and i think we are better off with a vote in the plenary - and secondly because we can now work together in parallel. a final point: i fully share the view of my socialist colleagues on the role of the european union and the european parliament in the parliamentary assembly of the wto. 27 votes together are stronger than 27 votes alone. and the dual role of the states and the european level is, in my view, very well played out in the wto. we should take this as an example for other international agencies.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, commissioner de gucht very much regrets not being with you today, despite attempts to hold this debate earlier. he is in brussels for negotiations with his canadian counterpart in what we hope will be a conclusive set of talks. turning to the oral question at hand, allegations of chinese unfair trade have been around for a long time, as we know. it is a fact that china accounts for the largest proportion of eu trade defence investigations and of measures imposed. china is europe’s largest trading partner. some of the increase in chinese export volume has been achieved through the use of unfair trade practices such as dumping and subsidisation. as a result, it is not surprising that there should be a relatively large number of trade defence cases involving china. however, the reason why the spotlight is increasingly on this issue is the size and strategic nature of the sectors now being affected by low-priced chinese imports. sectors in which europe has so far had the upper hand in terms of technological advancement and sophistication are now increasingly facing chinese competition. the european union is the most open market in the world and we welcome competition for its potential to stimulate technological improvements and lower consumer prices. where competition is unfair, as happens to european companies either because of foreign exports on the eu market, or market access restrictions for eu exports to foreign markets, the commission has a role to play in accordance with internationally agreed trade rules. so, if european industry brings forward evidence of unfair trade, the commission will investigate the matter, whether this concerns china or any other trading partner. we have both a duty and a legal obligation to restore the level playing field so that european industry can compete on fair terms, provided that measures are in the overall interest of the union. this includes an assessment of the possible impact of measures on downstream and upstream industry. on 6 september this year, the commission initiated an anti-dumping investigation into imports of solar panels from china following a complaint by the european solar panel industry. two months later, the commission also initiated an anti-subsidy investigation in relation to the same product. the initial evidence presented by the european industry indicates that chinese exports of solar panels are sold at dumped and subsidised prices, and imports have increased dramatically at prices which appear to heavily undercut those of eu manufacturers. these investigations cover solar panel imports with a value of more than eur 20 billion annually – a record value in the history of eu trade defence. the alleged dumping and subsidies will be investigated in line with our legal procedures, in accordance with our wto obligations. the european solar panel industry is facing difficult times. to establish to what extent this situation is due to chinese unfair competition is the very purpose of the ongoing investigations. the oral question put to the commission by professor moreira refers to the fact that the united states imposed definitive anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties on imports of solar panels from china on 7 november – just a few weeks ago. in our investigation, we will examine whether us anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures will lead to a diversion of chinese exports to the european market. but it has to be borne in mind that us imports from china are around usd 3 billion per year, far lower than the eu’s. to conclude, the commission will thoroughly investigate all the relevant aspects of the case and will, at the latest by june next year, issue its provisional findings. as always, interested parties will be given the opportunity to comment before a definitive conclusion is drawn.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the global solar cell market is clearly broken in my view clearly caused mainly by dumping and subsidies in china. the overcapacity is now so dramatic that in 2011, according to goldman sachs, we had 45 gigawatts of production capacity in china alone, even though we had only 28 gigawatts of new installations worldwide. i am clearly against protectionism, but in this case dumping is obvious. and that is why my first wish to the european commission is that we should do everything possible to ensure that the maximum period of nine months for preliminary inquiries is not used up, but that the commission does everything possible to speed up and complete the preliminary inquiries before the maximum period of nine months is reached. and secondly, there are signs that right now the warehouses in china are being cleared at a really rapid pace, that solar panels are already being shipped to the european union. i therefore ask the commission to consider the question of pre-registration. we must do everything possible to ensure that this anti-dumping instrument can at least be effective in the event of its possible entry into force. i have serious doubts whether we can solve the problem of the anti-dumping instrument and negotiations. what the chinese have done here in the last few months in particular is incredible! and what concerns me most is the enormous pressure that the chinese government is apparently putting on many companies in the european union. it is not possible that companies - not just one company, but many - come to us in parliament and say: 'do everything you can to prevent this anti-dumping case from being brought to a head. please help us, because if the anti-dumping case comes to a head, we will have to expect massive restrictions on the chinese market. that is why it is urgent, after all these years of not showing any teeth in dumping cases, to make it clear to china that we cannot continue as we have done in the past. we can't keep making out here! because my problem is this: i am sure that companies are coming to me now and saying that this case is not suitable, that we cannot save anything and that we should concentrate on the next case, but the next case will be the same and we will hear exactly the same arguments again. i would be very grateful if the commission would examine this anti-dumping case quickly and then take action really quickly if dumping can be proven.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. what's this all about? the question of fair trade is not about protectionism of european products, but about ensuring that our trade relations are based on fair principles. i think that the threat of a nuclear war is a very serious matter. i want to make this very clear: we want transparency in the investigation and we do not want china to try to prevent investigations by creating a threat environment, by putting pressure on european companies with alleged countermeasures in the pipeline. no, that is not a matter for discussion! we want to investigate this case. and that's what it's really about. under what working conditions are the solar panels produced in china? the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. what about the entire value chain? there are many aspects to be examined very carefully. there is no doubt that there is overcapacity. it is not possible that dumping measures will lead to the reduction of excess capacity to the detriment of jobs and industry in europe. that is why we must be transparent here! that is why i also addressed the commission: firstly, is there any transparency on the chinese side? do you have the opportunity to look at all the relevant facts? that is the first reaction that we should expect from china, rather than a threat to make things clear. and secondly, are you also prepared to go through with this procedure, even if china might intervene at the last moment? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. i urge you to carry this procedure through to the end!
question for the commissioner: the commission is not mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. do you share my impression that so far all four speakers from the four major groups in this house have said that the commission should urgently speed up the process and do you share my impression that we should really make sure that this message reaches the commission even without a resolution today?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. i think we should think very carefully about what the causes are and what the effects are. we are in danger of unleashing a trade war with china through a very narrow view of complex economic and social developments and through corresponding populist actions. that is the last thing we need as the european union at the moment! yes, we need fair trade and fair production. but what happened? the reduction of subsidies in germany and other countries has artificially reduced the pv market and thereby increased competition. if this leads to a serious political conflict, we will endanger the trade relations of the polysilicon producers, but also the exports of other sectors. we are also putting the world at risk - and mr jadot has spoken of the challenges of renewable energy - of supplying the technologies we urgently need for the energy transition. what we discussed yesterday in this house on the eu budget and the positions of the eu member states on the enormous cuts also has implications for the issue we are discussing now. we will find a solution not in confrontation but in cooperation. the commission must organize very quickly - because time is of the essence - a joint forum for european, american and chinese manufacturers and support the networking of development, production and distribution in these three main regions.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the number of speakers on the list shows how important this issue is to us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the differences are really only in the details. and i also welcome the existence of our trade defence instruments. i can see that. but in this context i would like to call for moderation. the technical anti-dumping procedures we have at our disposal must not be used for political gain and protectionist purposes. we all know that the success of europe depends on open markets. this is nothing new, but it is true, especially in times of crisis. the commission has not found any evidence that the chinese exporting producers have been able to maintain their prices in the union market. we should avoid that. that can't be in our best interest. in fact, the chinese have already started an anti-dumping proceeding in another field at the end of october, and our industry would also suffer. i therefore call on the commission to resolve the looming trade war urgently through bilateral talks and to find a global solution for the whole industry. i ask: has the commission already tried to approach the chinese government directly, as requested by chancellor merkel, in order to promote the concerns of the european solar industry at the highest level of government? dialogue could also be a way. i would also like to draw your attention to points 4 and 5 of our oral question. we need a common industrial strategy in these times of crisis too. i must say that i miss the commission's approach and its impulse.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has asked to speak on a matter which was not on the agenda. this will only take a few minutes. we have a lot of votes, so we will not have a debate.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, with the agreement of the presidency of the parliament and the president of the commission, i would like to make a statement on behalf of the commission concerning the state of negotiations on greece in order to inform you and to seek your political support to conclude the agreement, with a view to facilitating the next disbursement under the conditional financial programme for greece. at the beginning of this week, a staff level agreement was reached between the eu-imf troika and the greek authorities. the long meeting of the eurogroup, which lasted from tuesday night until wednesday morning, saw substantial progress towards an agreement on greece, even if a definitive conclusion ultimately proved elusive this time. importantly, the eurogroup recognised that the greek authorities have successfully implemented the full set of prior actions agreed with the eu and the imf. this is the result of a very substantial and strong effort on the part of greece. in terms of structural reforms, important decisions have been taken to build a more effective and efficient tax administration. that is indeed crucial, because a fair sharing of the tax burden is a question not only of sound public finances, but equally of social justice. so we should move beyond the myth that no progress has been made in greece or by greece. that perception is damaging and unfair. honourable members, greece is delivering. now it is time for greece’s european and international partners to deliver their part of the agreement. (applause)to do that, the euro area member states need to agree to decide on a credible set of measures to restore greece’s debt sustainability. the discussions on tuesday night moved us very close to an agreement. in this context, we should be clear that this set of measures does not exclude the need to reassess the debt sustainability of greece in the coming years, and it does not exclude taking further decisions as necessary in the light of future developments – depending, of course, on the full implementation of the reform programme by greece. to conclude, i trust that everyone will reconvene in brussels next monday with the necessary constructive spirit and move beyond the detrimental mindset of red lines. frankly, i see no reason why we should not be able to conclude the package and do away with the uncertainty which has been holding back a return of confidence in europe and of investment and growth in greece. honourable members, europe stands by greece. i can assure you that my services are working flat out to make this happen, and that the commission will leave no stone unturned in order to facilitate this essential agreement for the european economy and for the greek people. (loud applause)
i would like to thank you very much, commissioner rehn.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. next sunday is the international day for the elimination of violence against women. unfortunately, violence against women is still a tragic and everyday reality in the world today, including in the european union. violence against women knows no social, cultural or geographical boundaries. it is estimated that at least one in five women in europe is a victim of domestic violence at some point in her life. to put it bluntly, we are talking about appalling physical and psychological violence and sexual abuse. this situation is simply unacceptable. let me quote from the eu charter of fundamental rights, article 1: 'the dignity of the human person is inviolable, it must be respected and protected.' article 3: 'everyone has the right to the protection of his physical and mental integrity.' we have recently adopted legislation in the european parliament on a european protection order and on minimum standards for the rights and protection of victims. these are crucial steps, but there is still much to be done. it is our duty to fight to put an end to this violence. we must work together to achieve this - men and women. the existing measures must be implemented and the necessary financial resources must be secured. eu institutions, member states and civil society need to work together to develop a global strategy to combat violence against women. (applause from the centre)
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
i am not going to go into detail. i welcome the president of the swiss national council, mr hansjörg walter, and the president of the swiss council of states, mr hans altherr, as well as other members of the swiss parliament who have taken their seats in the gallery. (applause from the centre) a number of colleagues from various committees were able to meet our swiss colleagues yesterday and today. the meeting discussed a number of key issues, including the future of eu-switzerland relations. we look forward to continuing this dialogue with you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
this is what we're gonna do. we shall first vote on block 1, amendment no 32, which will replace all the other amendments, if it is adopted, by roll call. before the vote on amendment no 33:
mrs angelilli, that was also an important point, but it was not a point of order. i shall now interrupt anyone who is not speaking on the rules of procedure.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was very happy to see the report approved, because it is also about better protection of fish and salmon stocks. the most important elements of the plan are to set goals and targets. and it was also important to me that the member states really made a lasting commitment to comply with these provisions. the inclusion of recreational fishing in the impact analysis was also important - which was surprising to me - because we now have to admit - although it sounds a bit casual and easy - that recreational fishing is also becoming a profession and should therefore be included. finally, i would like to thank the member states who have contributed to the stabilisation of salmon stocks, including by introducing salmon stocks into their own waters.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was particularly pleased to vote in favour of this report because i have been fighting for the ban on shark finning for over ten years - at that time i was the representative of my group in the german bundestag for animal welfare. we now have a system, at least at european level, which no longer allows for exceptions. we must remember that any exception, however well-intentioned, creates new loopholes and is not in the interests of animal welfare at all. it was always unethical for me, and i am therefore very glad that we have adopted this resolution today. the commission's proposal is to be implemented not only in the member states of the european union, in other words in its actual field of application, but also worldwide, because we know that animal welfare is indivisible, and i wish us all much success in this endeavour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it's true that most people are afraid of sharks, and we know that. but sharks have been in our oceans for centuries, and i am sure they should be a part of it, and we have spoken for all the people of europe when we voted today, by a very large majority, to abolish shark finning. it's actually true that because shark fin soup is a delicacy, many people have cut off the fins of sharks and thrown them back into the sea. this is not only barbaric, it's also a huge waste. the fin is the most valuable part of the shark, because it can be used to cook the soup and make a profit, but it simply cannot be allowed to continue. we have said today, by a large majority, that this cannot happen again. it has been banned in europe since 2003, but there have been many exceptions, and we can prevent these exceptions if we stipulate that the shark must be brought ashore with a fin. only then can we really stop this barbaric practice.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report by mrs koppa is not bad, but it does not address the main problems. i would like to join in the call that macedonia needs the high-level talks, and it is good that they have been initiated, but this must not prevent us from ending the greek blockade against that country, if possible, this year. as regards kosovo, i would like to say that i regret that the footnote referring to un resolution 1244 has been maintained here in a bureaucratic manner. this country is a european country in its own right, recognized by the majority of eu member states, and it is high time that it finally recognizes the five countries that have not yet done so and that it gets visa-free travel and a trade agreement with the european union. i would like to say one last thing: i too criticize the utterly euphemistic statements in this report on turkey. the commission has already made a number of proposals. turkey is not a european country and does not meet the criteria.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are pleased with the ceasefire in gaza and the middle east, but we also know that this region is a graveyard of ceasefires and therefore of people. it is therefore urgent that we finally work towards a lasting peace settlement. and it can only be based on israel's right to security and existence, which must be fully guaranteed and defended, and the right of the palestinians to form a state - that is, on the two-state solution. but i have nevertheless voted against paragraph 5, despite the fact that paragraph 3 deals with this very well and the resolution is good overall. i am in favour of the gradual integration of palestine into the un structures, but unfortunately we are still far from that stage. and i want to be clear: that was the wrong signal at a moment when hamas territories are launching thousands of rockets over israel. we want a peaceful solution first, and then integration into the un structures can take place!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. last weekend marked 90 years since richard coudenhove-kalergi launched his call for a 'pan-european proposal'. he has advocated something like a united states of europe, and he, a realistic pacifist, meant above all a common foreign policy, a common arbitration and also a common defence force. it is our task to follow in this tradition and ensure that europe focuses on its core tasks - and that is a common foreign and security policy! and if i may quote two other great europeans: otto von habsburg, who would have been 100 years old this week, and franz josef strauss. you said that nato had no future unless it rested on two equal pillars - the united states of america and the united states of europe! we must continue along this path consistently, and the danjean report does that!
in writing. - i reject the report because it advocates further militarisation of the eu and calls for military autonomy through increased investment in armaments, defence and the military, despite the prevailing financial and economic crisis. the eu is also committed to strengthening its military (training) operations and to further strengthening cooperation between the eu and nato. it also advocates the use of development aid (edf funds) to finance security operations, supports further civil and military cooperation, advocates a subordination of policies to the csdp and promotes the military-industrial complex (mic). the report urges the use of battle groups and advocates the athena mechanism.
in writing. - i reject this report because the assistance clause (article 42 (7) teu) makes the eu a de facto military alliance and the solidarity clause (article 222 tfeu) paves the way for military intervention within the eu. the explicit 'obligation' to respond 'by all means' in the event of an armed attack against a member state goes even beyond the nato assistance clause, since it also covers unarmed attacks. the scope of the solidarity clause also provides for military support in the event of terrorist attacks, natural or man-made disasters, which implies military operations within the eu. cyber attacks, pandemics and energy shortages can also trigger the solidarity clause. i voted against the report because it does not clearly define what falls under the solidarity clause and whether social unrest/strikes are also considered 'man-made disasters'. in addition, military action is given priority over civilian action outside and within the eu, with a focus on eu defence and military solutions.
in writing. − in the context of the constantly globalised world, the cyber security constitutes one of the most ambitious challenges. in that order, further intensification of relations at the eu level should be guarantied by the safe and secure use of information and digital technologies as well as provided with the reliable information cervices and related infrastructures. the kelam report on cyber security and defence recalls growing aggressiveness of the digital sphere, underlying that currently large majority of the treats in this field are of a politically motivated nature. i agree with the rapporteur’s opinion that cyber attack is one of the indisputable threat for the defence, stability and competitiveness and have its negative impact in both eu and globally. i welcome eu initiatives in the framework of the cyber security, especially the establishment of the european cybercrime centre. although, on my opinion, it is essential to elaborate the concrete and accorded plan of the security and defence and develop the cyber security structures and units. additionally i think that deeper and constructive dialogue with private partners can enforce the inclusive cooperation of different actors and ensure the better use of information system.
in writing. - i reject the report because the cybersecurity situation is being militarized and the existing civilian approach is not considered sufficient, even though the risk is relatively low. the commission also intends to strengthen coordination with nato and to apply the solidarity clause in the event of an 'attack' (i.e. including military means in case of doubt).
in writing. − while the report is based on the correct assumption that climate change can exacerbate existing conflicts, it focuses wrongly on repressive military countermeasures and advocates further militarisation of the eu. i reject the report because it envisages the systematic integration of military elements into climate policy, calls for the financing of military action in relation to climate change from the eu budget, and advocates the promotion of closer coordination and cooperation between the eu and nato, as well as a particular focus on the development of military capabilities, pooling and sharing, including the pooling of civilian and military assets and capabilities. the current conflicts in developing countries can only be effectively resolved - including in the context of climate change - by addressing the underlying causes of global inequality and inequity. the military is the wrong answer.
in writing. − i support the jaakonsaari report on ongoing negotiations between the eu and kazakhstan. i am strongly convinced that the existing eu-kazakhstan partnership and cooperation agreement (pca), which was adopted more than ten years ago, should be replaced by a new legal framework. in my opinion, the new agreement should not only take into consideration the global conjuncture and the ongoing transformation of international trade relations, but it should also be linked to the progress in kazakh political reforms. i agree with the rapporteur that the new pca should also be a comprehensive framework. on the other hand, from my experience as regards the current state of human rights protection in that country, we have to call on the eu to support kazakhstan in its democratic reforms, by providing assistance in the rule of law and with institutional capacity building through technical support.
the explanations of vote are closed.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not on the initiative of the international society for human rights, i have accepted the political sponsorship of mr bahman ahmadi-amouie, one of iran's most famous journalists. and he's in prison for five years for the same reason that the blogger was killed, that we're dealing with today, and that our sakharov prize winners are being persecuted. they have all done nothing but exercise their right to freedom of expression - one of the most basic and self-evident human rights! and iran has no right to be treated like a normal state, as long as it does not grant even these minimal basic rights. of course, we must negotiate and maintain contacts. iran is one of the oldest civilizations of mankind and one of the oldest states of mankind. but then he should also behave accordingly and let humanity reign over personalities who do nothing but speak their minds freely and openly.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to update you on the security situation in myanmar’s rakhine state. since violence first erupted in may this year, the government has drastically increased the presence of the security forces. the army’s presence has calmed the situation, preventing further killings and arson attacks. in contrast, local police and border guards are widely regarded as biased. overall the government’s handling of the situation has been, by and large, adequate. the official death toll amounts to 89 people. several thousand homes have been torched and 110 000 people have been displaced, the vast majority of them being muslims. most internally displaced population camps are crowded, ill-equipped and lacking shelter and basic sanitation. to alleviate the suffering of the displaced communities, our humanitarian office, echo, allocated an additional eur 1 million this week to provide food, in addition to the eur 4 million of humanitarian aid announced by president barroso during his visit to the country on 3 november 2012. the situation remains highly volatile. the latest reports we have indicate that the government is making serious efforts to provide security and to identify and prosecute the instigators. arrests in recent days signal a more assertive stance by the government towards parts of the rakhine population who orchestrated the violent outbreaks. this needs to be acknowledged, in particular as it runs against the majority populist buddhist mainstream. in high-level contacts – including president barroso – the eu has continuously reminded the government of its responsibility to provide humanitarian access and to ensure the safety of all residents. furthermore, we have dispatched expert missions to the affected areas in order to assess the situation at first hand and to look for opportunities for the eu to help develop both short- and long-term interventions. these are designed to stabilise the situation and pave the way for a peaceful co-existence of the two communities. the government-appointed rakhine investigation commission will submit an interim report with 40 recommendations to the president this week. the commission was formed in august with a broad mandate. it will cover the causes of the violence, frame a response strategy, and suggest ways to promote the reconciliation of both communities. the commission was put together with a view to representing the ethnic diversity of the country. we regret that so far no rohingya representatives have been included, although the country’s muslim community is represented. nevertheless, we note that the commission has consulted a wide range of stakeholders. the long-term solution to the situation of the rohingya, including the question of citizenship, lies within myanmar, .
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. our europe has a dangerous and strategically important opposite coast in north africa. the mediterranean was the mare nostrum of the romans, churchill called it the soft underbelly of europe. this shows how much we depend on this region. libya has always been a key partner in this region, as a partner in energy supply, as a cultural, economic and geopolitical partner, and not least as a key location for immigration flows. we therefore need to ensure that the new structures that are emerging in this country are stable and democratic and that we can cooperate well with them in all fields. we must therefore do everything we can to help the young libyan democracy get back on its feet and to ensure that there is a functioning administration there, that the young state can actually fulfil its tasks. as regards immigration, the point is to keep immigration under control so that it does not flow uncontrollably, but also to ensure that these people are treated with human dignity, that they enjoy their basic rights, and that libya can ratify and apply the international conventions necessary for this. this is not just a task for the democratic parties in libya, it is also a task for us europeans. i therefore warmly welcome this resolution, because it also affects the whole of north africa and not least the sahel countries as far as mali.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not mrs vergiat, i really want to ask you: does your group not also want to support democracy in libya, or are you someone who resents the gaddafi regime and does not support this new government at all, but sabotages it from the outset?
i have to say, madam president, the eu is contractually obliged to maintain policy coherence in the interests of development. this means that we must take into account the interests of the developing countries and the objective of poverty reduction in all our policies. here's another case on the table where confessions and reality are far apart. central america is a very poor region. until now, the region has justifiably enjoyed easier access to the eu market. the agreement, however, transforms this unilateral trade facilitation into equal market access conditions for both sides. but this can only work if both trading partners can meet on equal terms. in this case, the agreement will continue to reproduce old patterns. latin america produces raw materials and exports them. europe is finding a market for industrial and processed products. we can't have that. the agreement also facilitates market access for our dairy products, which we keep artificially cheap here. as a result, the markets are flooded with the cheap milk. does this look like sustainable development? the impact assessment has also shown that the agreement will have negative impacts on land, water and climate. i hope that these arguments will be taken into account. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you for this inquiry. in fact, we greens are not against trade per se, of course, but we want fair trade. we want a trade agreement which is drawn up on equal footing and with the involvement of civil society, parliaments and the various groups; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we want trade agreements of this kind to help to build up or differentiate the export and industrial sectors, rather than relying unilaterally on the export of raw materials from other countries, so that we as the european union benefit, but the other countries suffer little or nothing. this is not in the interests of development policy, and we have committed ourselves in the lisbon treaty to aligning our foreign policy on the objectives of development policy, namely the reduction of poverty. we must spell this out clearly, including in our trade policy.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are voting this week on this free trade agreement, which has occupied us more than almost any other in recent years. and i am very, very grateful that the commission has moved very clearly in recent years in the direction of parliament's demands. i am very, very grateful to the many members who have been involved in the last few months when it came to putting in place a safety net or two on the final stretch - the final sprint, so to speak. and when we vote on this agreement this week, we should all be aware that the situation is certainly not perfect in all countries, but that the glass is no longer empty, but that it is at least half full. and my main point is that we should do everything we can to ensure that this agreement serves to fill the glass. and to my colleagues who will reject the agreement this week, i say: 'it is no use waiting until the glass is finally full! if we reject the agreement, it does not mean that the situation for the people of the country is improving, but that the benefits negotiated in recent years, the benefits that will result from such agreements, cannot be realised, but that we are being thrown back in the european union's relations with the two countries, that we are being thrown back in the interests of the people on the ground, that the improvements that will result in the economic, environmental and social spheres are not coming. and that is why i call on those who will vote against the agreement: rethink your position and please consider whether you would not vote against any agreement in principle! my concern is that even if the glass was full, you would still not be satisfied, but would complain that tomorrow the glass will overflow with doubt. and that is why i would be very pleased if this week we could send a clear signal to all those involved that we, as the european parliament, are aware, by a large majority, of our responsibility, our responsibility to the citizens of europe, but also our responsibility to the citizens of both countries. and that is where the agreement is an important step towards a better future!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why, when the agreement was on the table, we were not so convinced that the agreement itself would meet these requirements. we have therefore tried new ways - and i would like to thank mário david for taking these new ways, but also the secretariat of the trade committee with helena mercedes - which has brought us many new opportunities, new difficulties and a lot of work. we have achieved something as the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen. we have insisted that the safeguard clauses mention social and environmental standards for the first time and that the commission is asked to monitor their compliance on a continuous basis and to report to the european parliament. secondly, we have set up for the first time a european parliament monitoring group to monitor the implementation of the rules on social and environmental standards. thirdly, with the resolution we adopted in june this year, we for the first time insisted that binding roadmaps for improving human rights, workers' rights and environmental standards be submitted to the european parliament by sovereign states. we have never had all this in trade agreements before, and this is, of course, to some extent the blueprint for future agreements. in this respect, ladies and gentlemen, we should consider very carefully whether what we have achieved here is not conducive to contributing to the further improvement of human rights, labour standards and environmental standards in colombia and peru. there's still work to be done, no question about it. the question of military justice in colombia, for example, is it a means to further the evasion of justice, or can it be designed to punish human rights violations? or the integration of the indigenous population in peru: can the instruments we have achieved improve their participation in the mining sector in particular? there is something to be done, and in that respect all those who want to vote no here must tell me clearly what alternatives they see to influence further progress. so i say very clearly: let us start now, the work does not end this year, but the work begins, so that together we can improve the living conditions in colombia and peru.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in the past few days, we've received hundreds of e-mails and letters. an unusually broad alliance of organisations and individuals has made a strong appeal to us not to agree to the free trade agreement with peru and colombia. human rights organizations, churches, trade unions and development organizations made it very clear why they are very critical of the ratification process. and these are the very citizens here and in peru and colombia for whom we are to take responsibility. and i can only share their fears. a study last week revealed how the financial services chapter in the agreement torpedoes the eu's own current initiatives to regulate financial markets, how it facilitates the destabilising operations of tax evaders and money launderers, how it makes the famous transfer pricing easy for corporations, how the trade dg is undermining commissioner barnier's attempts to get the eu crisis under control with the free trade agreement. this is not a guarantee of long-term investment and government revenue. this is what fuels speculation, tax evasion and illicit money flows. we should rather try to conclude a completely different agreement, one that is fair and transparent. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question for the commissioner: i am not saying that we should not be concerned. what does the approval of the parliaments mean to you? in colombia, 90% of the deputies in both houses are in favour of the agreement, even deputies from the polo party, the only critical party, are in favour. in peru, the parliament is in favour. in this respect, it is not always possible to say unilaterally that there are some who are against it. it must also be made clear that the political majority is very, very clear in favour of the agreement.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you for asking. i believe that the people who are in favour of the agreement have been sufficiently represented by my predecessors. but unfortunately, those who have not spoken are the very groups and people who are mobilising massively against the agreement and these are not just individual groups, this is really the whole range: these are numerous unions in the european union, in peru and colombia. there are human rights organizations, etc. - i've listed them - and many, many individuals. their concerns must also be voiced and their fears must be taken seriously, as must those of the proponents. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the agreement is implemented. i think we need to take everything people say into account. there's an incredible amount of resentment and fear about the deal. we must take this seriously and not just say: 'we are doing this now, what else can we do?' we must look at the fears very carefully. i think we greens have done that, and some in the s&d group will vote against it. so the fears are real and they are to be taken very seriously.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. politics is concrete. and what we are now deciding here, both on the agreement with central america and on the comprehensive trade agreement with colombia and peru, naturally affects the policy coherence of the european union. and that is by way of this trade agreement. the tragedy in colombia has been going on for decades. and in peru, we are also in a very complicated and contradictory process of transformation. and sections of the population - in these two countries in particular - have tried unsuccessfully to change the situation through armed struggle. i am particularly pleased that we are now living in a moment when serious peace negotiations are under way in colombia. the european union should do much more to ensure their success, including by integrating representatives of the civilian population. others have tried to bring about this change in the countries in a peaceful and democratic way, to combat the arbitrariness in the country and finally bring real justice and the rule of law to the people. they've been involved in trade unions, they've been involved in human rights organizations, environmental initiatives. and many of them have been murdered for their commitment. and these people and their survivors and their relatives are also now expecting a very concrete and binding position from the european union on their fate. the forces in colombia and also in peru, outside and inside the parliaments, who are working for democratic change, are hoping for this support from outside. some of them hoped that these negotiations on the agreement would lead to their governments actually making effective legal and institutional changes for the prospect of a lucrative deal. i remember mrs ashton calling this the legitimation of her policy of critical engagement. have we reached that goal? and that is the point where we have to decide today. has the killing stopped? are the structures irreversibly democratized? we have not yet reached a partnership agreement with the european union, which will only enable the population to develop economically and contribute to overcoming poverty. by signing the declaration, have we given the people a commitment to respect human rights, social, cultural and environmental rights, in a concrete, transparent, verifiable and actionable way, here and there? all the major unions - mrs keller has pointed out - in latin america and in europe, etuc, ituc and others, the human rights and environmental organizations, the council of latin american churches of over 120 churches from 26 countries say no to this agreement. that's got to make us think. the road map is nothing but a non-binding and unconcrete promise for the future. we have a promise in hand, but it's not actionable. failure to achieve the objectives would have no consequences. what would be the consequences of the present ratification of the convention? that's what this is about! we are not opposed to this agreement in general, but only to ratification at this stage, because the process is far from being completed and we must make clear where the future is going in the bilateral relations between the european union and trade with peru and colombia. and in this spirit i ask you to reconsider - also in view of the fate of the victims: vote no tomorrow! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question for the commissioner: the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr scholz, would you also consider it a step forward that the attorney general, together with the unions, has now presented a list of priorities for the prosecution of crimes not yet solved? would you consider it progress if, as a result of our negotiations, 380 additional labour inspectors were hired, who would make more visits to the factories and also impose more sanctions? would you consider it progress that an advisory group is being set up with the participation of the trade unions, and would you also consider it progress that there is a new unit on trade and respect for human rights, with the participation of ethnic groups, trade unions and many others?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i regard this as a success, mr lange, as a step in the right direction. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. he himself has made it clear how difficult it is for him to make progress in this process. and when i hear the president's latest speech, in which he postpones the prosecution of those responsible for the murders, the complex and contradictory human rights situation in the country, so to speak, i have doubts. i just want to make it clear: it must also be clear, regardless of the constituencies we represent here in the european parliament, that those who have been affected by these complex human rights violations for decades can rightly expect us to put these issues at the centre of today's deliberations: how do we react to ratification, which is a means of exerting pressure for further sustained support, including the lawyer's activity?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank our chair and also the shadow rapporteurs, especially pawel zalewski, for their steadfastness and determination throughout this process. we greens are happy that the final result preserves the institutional prerogatives of parliament in its new competences on the eu investment policy. this is a success which was seriously called into question by some forces in the council at some points. we recognise that the regulation makes the most out of a situation which saw council and parliament as antagonists. however, the regulation fails to deliver on its key purpose, that is to phase out, in an orderly manner, all existing bilateral investment treaties of the member states in a clear timeframe of transition. it leaves the door open for an eternal dual system. we might have member states’ bits remaining with us for our lifetime and there is no certainty that one day member states’ bits will be a definite thing of the past. in substance the bits legislation remains unsatisfactory with regard to its original purpose, that is to guarantee that bits are from now on a transitional agreement on the way to a common eu investment policy. therefore we greens are against this legislation.
the commission has already done so. i am clearly in favour of the 30 million euro of macrofinancial assistance to the kyrgyz republic and its release. kyrgyzstan is now in a period of political and economic stabilization following the unrest in 2010. in the current situation, it is important that we offer our support in close coordination with other international actors. it is also right and important that we attach certain conditions to the granting of financial aid, such as respect for human rights and the establishment of a genuine democracy with structures based on the rule of law. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's financial instruments, including the european neighbourhood instrument, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's financial instruments. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a step in the right direction. the kyrgyz republic has committed itself to the stabilisation of democratic institutions and to the continuation of the reconciliation process. social, political and economic reforms must be tackled with the active participation of civil society. the eu must be supportive, but it must not shy away from open, if critical, assessments. but this also requires us to be credible. kyrgyzstan should not suffer from the disagreement at eu level. given the great political, economic and geostrategic importance of central asia for europe, i see this macrofinancial assistance as a positive sign for the whole region.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the report by mr bernhard rapkay, on behalf of the legal affairs committee, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection (com(2011) 0215 c7-0099/2011 2011/0093(cod)) (a7-0001/2012), the report by mr raffaele baldassarre, on behalf of the legal affairs committee, on the proposal for a regulation of the council implementing enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection with regard to the applicable translation arrangements (com ((2012) 0161) c7-0145/2011 2011/0094 ((cns)) (a7-0002/2012)) and the report by mr klaus-heiniger lehne, on behalf of the committee on the judiciary, on the patent disputes system (2017-00021 (a7-0009/2012).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have a large number of colleagues here. a few weeks ago i visited a small, highly innovative technology company in my constituency, where i was also presented with a presentation showing how many patents the company had received. this triggered a kind of pavlovian reflex in me, and i asked what the company representatives actually thought about the eu patent, the unitary patent with unitary effect - that's what it's all about. they spontaneously told me: we don't need this until tomorrow, we don't need it until today, we actually needed it yesterday. we need it as urgently as possible, because we have had the uniform patent distribution for a long time, but we do not have the uniform protection we need, and we do not need it tomorrow or today, we actually needed it yesterday. the problem is that after a long debate on the unitary patent - and i believe mr lehne will go into the history of this whole subject a little more closely - one institution in the european union has almost screwed it up again, almost prevented it again, and that is the european council. we had a result a year before the deadline. after brief but very intensive and very constructive negotiations, we have drawn up a joint package with the polish presidency, and everyone has agreed to it. we have even received a written confirmation from the polish presidency that the council will vote as we have agreed. the only thing missing was the seat of the central chamber of the patent court, and here the council did not agree. that is the council's task, and six months later it has reached an agreement: three countries have applied to take the seat. what was the compromise? three countries will get the seat! we can be happy that eight countries did not apply for this seat, otherwise eight countries would have won it. the real problem is that this compromise has been combined with the requirement to delete the core elements of the patent regulation without replacement. this is a breach of eu law! the european council is adopting a decision which is contrary to eu law, which means that it wants the ecj to be excluded from the whole procedure, that the ecj should be removed at the request of the european council, and that of course also means that the european parliament's rights as legislator are being undermined. these are the three red lines where we said if we are going to be on this path at all, they must be respected. because in the end, it was about the council having to save face. it has decided to delete articles 6 to 8, and as we know, when the european council says that - although it has nothing to say to us, for the council of ministers it is, in a sense, the word of god, and it must be obeyed - then we have the problem. we have said that if we were to participate in order to save your face, we would not be able to delete articles 6 to 8 without replacement, but we would need an adequate replacement. i must expressly criticize the cypriot presidency, in my justified criticism of the council, because the cypriot presidency has been handed a hot potato which it has had to deal with at once. we did this in a very constructive way. but we have said in parliament that this is what the compromise must look like, otherwise we will not go along with it. it has come to fruition, we have reached exactly those points we wanted to reach. i would like to say that this is not the most attractive solution we have, but it is one that is consistent with the three red lines we have drawn, and that is why i think it is also time that we now put this to the vote and decide.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the debate on patents goes back to the 1970s. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. in 2001, the then commissioner bolkestein had launched a concrete proposal for a patent regulation. this proposal failed at the time because of minor disputes in the council which had their origin in problems which have never been of any importance to patent users and those who have had to deal with patent law. i would like to give an example of the debate on the language dispute. in fact, even today, the overwhelming majority of all patents are in english anyway, and all research is done in english today anyway. in addition, two other languages play a certain role, and the other languages play practically no role in the patent business. the first attempt by commissioner bolkestein to do so failed. i remember that in the past, as a representative of my committee - the legal affairs committee - i have also made several trips to other countries of the world, including china. and you all know the ongoing conflict between europe and china over intellectual property rights. we have had to hear from the chinese again and again how backward we are in our own patent law here in europe and that we have not yet achieved a uniform patent law in this single market either. this is just a sign of the urgency of finally solving this problem. in addition, we have a patent system today - mr rapkay said this - which is good for large multinational companies but bad for small and mediumsized enterprises. and we will now solve this by having a single patent in europe which can also be enforced in a uniform way and which avoids many disadvantages for small and mediumsized enterprises. the european parliament has played a major role in the development of this patent package. i would remind you that it was we who, in the last parliament, led the commission to develop a new patent strategy. and i am very grateful to commissioner barnier for having taken advantage of the possibilities of the lisbon treaty and now having put forward a new proposal or a new package as a proposal which is now finally leading to this result after a long debate. the lisbon treaty has indeed given us a new legal basis for intellectual property rights and also the possibility of enhanced cooperation, which has finally succeeded in overcoming the language dispute and in finding a possible solution to the patent question within european legislation. ladies and gentlemen, the judicial system which i am here to present and which is the subject of my report is something which takes place outside the legal structure of the european union. you know that the council then asked the ecj for an opinion and that the ecj did not advocate a central european judicial system structured within the framework of the european community but clearly pointed the way to a supranational court, which, in creating a patent system, would follow the example of the benelux countries but would function as a national court in relation to the ecj. i also believe that these elements, which the ecj requested in its opinion, have all been sufficiently taken into account in this agreement on jurisdiction, which we are not here to decide on today, but only to express our opinion on, and that above all one thing has been achieved: where there are competent bodies in the member states to rule on matters of infringement and non-existence of patents, these can be integrated into the existing system much better than would have been the case in a purely european centralistic system. finally, i would like to see the two countries which are not participating in enhanced cooperation, which are not participating at present, decide to join the 25 and thus create a full european union, a full internal market - also within patent law. we're taking advantage of the treaty now, but it would be nice if everyone could join in.
mr president, commissioner barnier, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. we europeans, but above all our businesses, and especially our small and mediumsized enterprises, have been waiting for this day for a long time. for four decades we have been trying to establish a uniform patent protection at european level. at present, although the grant of a patent is recognised in each member state, it must be applied for separately in each member state. on the one hand, this is pure bureaucracy and is out of date, but above all it creates costs that many of those concerned simply cannot afford. patent protection throughout europe costs many times what it costs in the united states. china has been mocking us for a long time because we demand that they protect intellectual property, but they are not able to do so in the eu. the fact that we are voting today is something we owe to our companies and researchers for a long time. spain and italy are not participating because in future the translations will be in only three languages: english, french and german. however, we now have automatic machines that are working more and more perfectly, and most patents are now granted in english. i would like to refer briefly to the many e-mails we have received, especially from german members of this house. it is not true that the role of the ecj will be reduced in the future, it still retains the monopoly on interpretation. anything else would also be incompatible with eu law. and it's also not true that we're here in some way deciding whether software is patentable. the legal situation remains the same.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. patent protection in the european union is currently time-consuming and expensive. it costs more than ten times what it costs in the united states and china. many colleagues had pointed this out. if we are to adopt the unitary patent this afternoon in the european parliament, it will be a milestone in the history of the completion of the european internal market - i repeat: a milestone in the history of the completion of the european internal market! - and i would therefore like to begin my speech by expressing my sincere thanks to all the members. i would like to mention once again the names of our rapporteurs, mr rapkay, mr baldassarre, mr lehne and many, many committed members of this parliament, who for decades have not been able to give up, who, despite many, many setbacks, have, especially in the last few months, once again, stuck to the unitary patent and have always been constructive in making this unitary patent a reality. i'm from bavaria. many of my smes have been telling me for many years that a single patent, a solution for all of europe, must be introduced. i see in this unitary patent, which we hope to adopt this afternoon, the driving force for innovation, growth and employment in the european union, especially for our small and mediumsized enterprises, which desperately need a unitary patent. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's medium-sized enterprises are able to compete with the larger ones. i think that if we adopt this patent here, which will lead to less cost, less bureaucracy, less time, especially for our mediumsized companies, then we are doing a really good job, and i would urge you all to support it accordingly. we have been discussing the commission's proposals for the small business act for years, especially in the committee on industry, and i can tell you that the main issue or one of the main issues - why our smes are not as active in the european single market as they could be - is also linked to the fact that we do not yet have a uniform patent protection legislation in the european union. i would also like to mention briefly the difficult birth of the unitary patent. many colleagues had already discussed it. it has been discussed here since the 1970s. the language regime has been one of the subjects which have been of constant concern to us for many, many years. over 90% of patent applications are in english, to my knowledge. i also hold my own language very, very high, and my bavarian dialect, but i think in this case the three-language regime is a good approach. i hope very much that italy and spain will go through the open door here. the commissioner has put it so well: it will not be the end of the road, but we should try to find a solution that is really good for the 27 countries in the european union. the seat of the unified patent court is of course not an ideal solution - the three seats are another classic example of the european paradox, but let us take it as it is. we could not decide that in parliament. i think the comments made in mr lehne's own-initiative report on this are correct and accurate. i would just like to conclude with the following note: the best is the enemy of the good, as they say. the same applies to the unitary patent. i am certainly glad that today, with a large majority, we are bringing to a successful conclusion what we have worked on together with the commission and the council for decades, and i will certainly be voting in favour of the proposals.
member of the commission. - madam president, i will be brief, first of all to thank each and every one of those who have spoken, for expressing their feelings frankly. i shall perhaps, by telegraph, limit myself to a few points of reaction or reflection. mrs lichtenberger referred to the court of justice earlier, indicating that she would be excluded from the game. no, frankly, it won't. the court of justice will be the final instance for interpreting the unitary patent regulation, from the first to the last article. this applies both to the translation regulation and to the entire acquis of the european union. the new unified patent court is therefore a court common to the member states. as such, it will have the same obligations as any national court and, in particular, it will be obliged to refer to the court of justice of the european union all questions concerning the interpretation of the two regulations. mr zwiefka said earlier that 'this is not the end of the story' and mrs ries said 'this is a necessary but not sufficient progress'. i agree with both of those points. we are creating the framework, now we will have to work on the operational modalities so that this patent will be as i hope operational in the spring of 2014. i hope that in the first half of 2014 we will be able to grant the first unitary patent to a european small and medium-sized enterprise. i would like to thank all those who have praised our work, mrs wikström, mr karim, mr manders, mrs gallo and many others. of course, these thanks are not addressed to the commissioner alone. i carried a work that began long ago. all my departments are directly concerned, all the presidencies too, from the swedish presidency, the belgian presidency, the cypriot presidency, whom i thanked, and then, of course, your rapporteurs, president lehne, mr rapkay, mr baldassare, mrs regner, etc., all those who have worked in this direction. i have just heard mr lópez-istúriz white and mr masip hidalgo express their legitimate feelings. i mean, the door is wide open. mr. kelly was wondering when spain and italy would join the others. that is their sovereign choice. the very philosophy of enhanced cooperation is to keep the door open. they will probably make this choice in the light of the decisions of the court of justice of the european union, which we await with respect and confidence. anyway, the door is still open. i would like to reiterate my conviction that thanks to your work and your commitment, and that of the council and the commission, which has also done its work, we are today reaching a very important stage. this is a real step forward for competitiveness, for european growth and, in particular, for small and mediumsized enterprises. my last words will be to express my lack of understanding of what has just been said by mr cymański or mr henin, on both sides of this house. frankly, it's not fair to say that we're going to strengthen the strong and weaken the weak. that's not true, man. the european patent, whatever its imperfections and the dynamic compromise we have found - i would have preferred other methods, i told you - is a step forward, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises which do not protect themselves. mr manders said earlier: 'when i was an inventor, i gave up protecting myself throughout europe because it was too expensive: 25 000 to 30 000 euros.' we will reduce these costs and simplify the procedures, which is a real step forward, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. of the 22 million enterprises in the union, 21 million are small and mediumsized enterprises, which will thus see their competitiveness improve thanks to your decision.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - the madam president, i particularly welcome the fact that so many here this morning share the council's view that it is time to conclude the matter of the patent package. a single patent system will be the cornerstone of our continued efforts to stimulate economic growth and help europe to emerge from the current economic crisis. the subject was extremely difficult and took a great deal of time and energy to complete. the previous presidencies and the cyprus presidency have both made a great deal of effort, and we are pleased to see that this work is bearing fruit. i would like to thank the european parliament again for its understanding and for the excellent cooperation we have had together on this important matter.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i would like to begin by thanking all those who took part in this rather constructive debate. i think, however, that the commissioner and i agree that there are a few things that need to be rectified. i believe that this is indeed a tremendous research opportunity for small and mediumsized enterprises. and i'll just illustrate this with a very simple example. in the present situation, without this patent package, without the patent court agreement, the case is quite obvious: a mediumsized company applies for a patent, which is expensive fun if it applies for all 25 countries that are part of these patent agreements. and then, if he wants to enforce that patent, he has to sue a large corporation that violates that patent in, theoretically, up to 25 member states. this puts every medium-sized enterprise at the limit of its existence and its possibilities. even worse, the practical case is that often the big one disputes this patent with the small one and wants to make a deal with the small one so that he can use this patent as cheaply as possible. and when the small one then makes use of his patent, the big one comes with patent infringement litigation that he can start in up to 25 states with a huge cost mountain and a huge cost risk for the medium-sized one. this will no longer be the case in the future, when the small and mediumsized enterprises take advantage of the opportunities created by this new patent system. then there's only one course of action. and only in one procedure will the final decision be taken for the whole of europe, for all 25 member states. and for the first time, the arms will be equalised between the big and the medium-sized firms. and this is a very important example for me of why what we are deciding today is a huge step forward for smes. and much of what has been said here is simply and poignantly nonsense, to put it bluntly. nor is there any discrimination, since spain and italy continue to participate in the previous patent convention, under the terms of which all patents that are to be valid in spain and italy also require a corresponding translation into those languages. the new system does not replace the old one, but creates an additional option. in other words, all the possibilities that exist today exist with regard to the national patent, with regard to the european patent convention. it just creates an extra opportunity. this alone will increase the opportunities for businesses in the single market. that is why i think we are taking a very big step forward here today. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i think mr baldassarre is right: i too think italian is the most beautiful language - i say that as a german - but we are not giving a beauty prize here, we are making a european patent here. that is what this is about, a patent that small and mediumsized enterprises can finally use. i have to tell you, i have been in this parliament for more than 18 years now. i have rarely heard a debate in which the opponents of a project have argued as contradictorily as they have today. not only have they contradicted each other, but individuals have contradicted themselves. mr lópez-istúriz has really succeeded in contradicting himself twice in one sentence. respect, but you have to explain to me how you do it! it is also pointless to go into the many who came in, read their statement and left. i suppose they're sitting in their offices, finally reading the text they've been talking about. they haven't done that before! then they'll realize they've been completely wrong. i would like to return to the question of patent protection. this package says nothing about patent granting. that is not at all what article 118 says. it's about the patent. a patent which has been granted may continue to be granted and a patent which has not been granted may not continue to be granted. it's about protection. the problem is what mr lehne said: to sue for protection, you have to go to 25 countries if you're in doubt. one is enough. whoever says that it has become more expensive for small and mediumsized enterprises is the secret, but it is not at all plausible. so it is indeed an improvement for small and mediumsized enterprises. i would like to say again that when there is an argument here, which is being discussed in the scientific community, there is a lot of discussion, but there is also discussion that it is possible to consider doing something like this only through an intergovernmental agreement. the fiscal pact has shown what can be done. but then we are out of the question, and the court of justice will have no access to the questions, and that is precisely what we have saved! we have saved the very thing that the ecj can work in the preliminary ruling procedure, in the referral procedure; that's all it was from the beginning! i say to you, whoever votes against the patent package today is playing the game of the big boys! he is playing the game of big business against smes, there is no doubt about that!
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for forty years we have been waiting for and applying for a european patent for the economy. at this moment, you have just ruled on this patent. i would like to thank you, on behalf of the european commission, and in particular president lehne, your rapporteurs, mr rapkay and mr baldassare, whose work, i repeat, is a credit to the defence of the general european interest. finally, with the council and your support, we have found what i would call a dynamic compromise on a much simpler and much cheaper european patent. i would also like to say that this patent remains open, whenever they wish, to the two countries - italy and spain - which have not yet joined this enhanced cooperation. let me just say, in the face of all the crises and difficulties facing europeans at the moment, that this is good news. it is above all real progress - i say this with great humility, without any complacency - real progress for competitiveness, for growth, for employment, especially in european small and mediumsized enterprises. i wanted to personally and sincerely thank your institution for this. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, yesterday we had a very sensitive, emotional debate on the trade agreement on colombia and peru. it was a controversial issue for several political groups. my group will therefore ask parliament to withhold its consent today and send the agreement back to the committee on international trade, for three main reasons which i have circulated to members, and you can read in your mailboxes. firstly, we have a study which explains that there is no provision to control and monitor financial flows in the agreement with colombia and peru, the two biggest coca exporters, whereas there are such provisions in other ftas. on the one hand, the agreement seeks to close the window for tax evasion, tax fraud and money laundering, while on the other hand, it opens doors wide open to similar activities. the second reason is the human rights situation. the united nations high commissioner for human rights, the inter-american court for human rights, human rights watch, amnesty international and several trade unions have explained that the human rights situation is not such that we should consent to the conclusion of this agreement. thirdly, the trade unions, etuc and other such organisations are asking us not to give our consent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we have been dealing in this parliament for some time with the development of resistance through the use of antibiotics. it is right and important. because we have a problem here. but we must also acknowledge that we cannot do without the use of antibiotics in the near future, and that is important. and if we have systems that implement this application in a targeted and very concrete way, then we cannot vote against it. and that is why i have opposed the call for the right of veterinary dispensation to be reviewed or even abolished, because the direct delivery of medicines from the veterinarian to the farmer ensures that proper treatment is given according to the diagnosis and the prescription for the diagnosis and that animal health monitoring is carried out - and this is particularly important to me. now, if the farmer goes to the pharmacy and gets the antibiotic, he goes home and doesn't call the vet. he'll do it himself. and what happens then, and what resistance forms then, we can expect it to reverse itself.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. antibiotics have changed our world in a way that few other drugs have ever done before: a medical breakthrough that has blunted the horror of many diseases. but we can only maintain the effectiveness of these special substances if we use them responsibly. the risk of resistance development exists in both humans and animals. when antibiotics lose their effectiveness, we often face unsolvable problems. in animal husbandry, prophylactic use of growth promoters has long been prohibited. but if the animals are sick, they must be able to be treated by a trained veterinarian. the administration of the medicinal products directly by the veterinarian has proven to be effective in the past. the funds are readily available and individual treatment is guaranteed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal health certificate is issued in accordance with the requirements of the veterinary legislation of the member states. veterinarians take responsibility for the treatment of animals and they also meet that responsibility in the administration of medication. i voted for the report, but i am in favour of veterinary medicines being dispensed.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report because the aid to kyrgyzstan is expensive but it is useful in supporting the democratization process and improving human rights. the eu logically expects a response.
in writing. − i voted favourably for the arias report because there is an evident need to pay additional attention on the digital single market. now we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of the european single market it is high time to explore the benefits of the digital economy and develop a europe-wide framework for consumers and numerous entrepreneurs in the digital world. facing new challenges and opportunities, nowadays the digital market is facing a variety of regulations across europe, which is not favourable for the development of cross-border business and smes. i welcome the rapporteur’s recommendations on the establishment of a coherent framework for building trust in the digital single market, especially the provisions on smes and the suggestion to overcome remaining barriers in the european digital market.
in writing. − as a member of the internal market committee (imco), i welcome the fact that, after many years of discussion, there is now a single european patent. so far it has failed the spanish and italians because their wishes for translation into their respective national languages could not be met. they are no longer part of the unitary patent. for germany, where 50% of all patents are developed, the unitary patent is of the utmost importance and is of interest to smes for cost reasons.
in writing. - despite the strong opposition from ngos, churches, trade unions and human rights organisations, i believe the agreement is right and effective. it was also voted for by the parliaments of peru and colombia, so it has democratic legitimacy. the countries of colombia and peru commit themselves in this agreement to raise standards, to further democratic dialogues in their country and to talk to ngos. progress is thus unmistakable.
in writing. - i have opposed the separation of prescription and sale of antimicrobials, as i do not believe that this measure necessarily leads to a reduction in the supply of antimicrobials. the disadvantages are therefore greater, and abuse cannot be prevented by separation. more important is the responsible prescribing and use of the drugs.
in writing. - i welcome all efforts to reduce the use of antibiotics in animals and to limit them to what is absolutely necessary. i have nevertheless abstained on the vote on the report today. in particular, i do not share the rapporteur's view that veterinarians will no longer be able to administer and prescribe medicines in the future. this will not help to reduce the use of antibiotics, as experience from other countries (denmark) has already shown. on the contrary, it will create new problems: the report says that a veterinarian is now unable to treat a sick animal directly because he is not allowed to have antibiotics with him. in order to reduce the use of antibiotics in animals, we should be looking at more effective measures, such as improving the general health of animals, rather than making life difficult for veterinarians. a strategy to minimise the use of antibiotics can only be successful if it is implemented in partnership with farmers and veterinarians. this has also been the case in other countries, such as the netherlands.
in writing. - the report contains many good and important recommendations which can help to reduce and control the use of antibiotics in veterinary and human medicine. this is urgently needed. the reason for my refusal was the demand to abolish the right of dispensation for veterinarians. this would mean that the veterinarian could no longer sell the antibiotics directly to the farmer after receiving a prescription, but that the farmer would have to purchase the drugs from third parties. however, in the case of acute inflammation, direct action is needed and the necessary medicines must be available to the farmer. in addition, the separation of prescription and sale does not make controls better, but more confusing. the more parties are involved in prescribing and selling, the more opaque the process becomes.
in writing. - i abstained in the final vote because i consider the right of dispensation of the veterinarian to be essential.
in writing. - i rejected the own-initiative report because, although it is good overall, it excludes the right of dispensation for veterinarians. i believe that the dispensation is necessary and indispensable. the veterinarians in the federal republic are responsible and have for years proved that they can handle this right. each change will create additional costs and a de facto deterioration.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. today we are discussing how we assess the compromise reached, and i assume that the green group is not satisfied with the result achieved. and that is why we will reject this compromise. why is it a bad compromise from our point of view? the line of parliament was that we foresaw and predicted that we would have significant funding gaps in the course of the 2012 financial year because the funds we had agreed last year would not be sufficient, and that is exactly what happened! the european social fund was no longer solvent. erasmus was underfunded. we were unable to fund certain research programs. now there's this compromise offer to refinance 6 billion euros in 2012. but that means that 3 billion euros will be carried over to the next financial year, a financial year in which it is also crucial to respond politically to the crisis by making the right investments in research and development, in new competitiveness, in 'green jobs', in ecological growth. but it is precisely this budget heading that is being cut with the compromise now reached in 2013. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so, in our view, it is unfortunately a compromise which we cannot justify. we would have been better off if parliament had continued to negotiate with confidence in order to achieve a better result. in our view, parliament has become small in this conflict with the council - unfortunately, it has become a political dwarf. that is why we cannot agree to the compromise.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i want to concentrate on the supplementary budget. first of all, i would say that the rapporteur and the negotiators have certainly done their best. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether it will take a decision on the matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council has also agreed to provide additional funds to cover the payments that are postponed until next year. nevertheless, from our point of view, there seems to be some gaps. there is still an overhang from the preceding mff period, there are still the bills for november and december, and it is still completely unclear to me and to our group how they are to be financed and covered, and if the member states say that they no longer have money available, all i can say is: this is a consequence of the council's wrong crisis policy, which always relies on austerity and thus strangles the economy. that is not the responsibility of parliament, but of the council.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the compromise we are going to have to vote on tomorrow is not a good one. but in the current situation, the best we can do. it is the lesser evil of those who had to choose between having six billion euros to pay bills or not having any money. i believe that the european parliament is thus playing a more responsible role than the council, whose member states are behaving like pawns on the chessboard, unable to work as a team and to play in the interests of the people. this may upset you, this may disturb you, we have seen all this in the last year. what we have not seen in the last year - and this is the disappointing part of this year's negotiations - is that the council has lost its role as an honest merchant whose word can be relied on. at the end of last year there was an agreement that if the funds were needed, they would be paid by the member states without question. that promise has been broken, and that is not a good sign for 2013.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by saying that i am glad that an agreement has been reached. i would add, however, that the rule should be clear: old bills must be paid. the european union must not go into debt. it's a rule. but debt also means not only that you don't officially incur debt, but also that you don't let the countries that have bills, that have a legal right to pay that bill, sit on the debt, which means that we owe to others just because we can't incur official debt. we have to pay these bills. the countries have a right, the promoters have a right, and we are obliged to pay for it. this is not something that can be said with any kind of flattery. i'm glad we reached the supplementary budget. i would like to point out, however, that i expect that we will be facing some difficulties towards the end of the next financial year, because the margins have become rather narrow and because we are likely to have more old bills waiting for us. i would like to say this today so that at the end of next year we will not be able to say in retrospect that we did not see this. this compromise is one, but it doesn't just make me happy. i would also like to say that i am very pleased that we have found a sensible solution in the european external action service, which allows the european external action service to grow to a certain extent and has also provided the european court of justice with the necessary resources. i would like to make a cautious reminder to the commission: i would be very pleased if we could finally equip the human resources to deal with vat fraud and cigarette smuggling - which are a double-digit loss for the european union - in such a way that these fraudulent activities can be punished more severely. we do not have enough staff in the agency, and the lawnmower-principle staff savings are a form of savings that does not make me happy. the competent authorities need adequate human resources to be able to collect the money we owe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the budgetary procedure is coming to an end, and it has not been satisfactory at all, it has been fractured. breach of trust, breach of duty, breach of contract. we started our 2012 budget year with €5 billion of debt from 2011, the council's insistence on low payments and the council's promise to make available the funds we lack in 2012 quickly and expeditiously. the commission asked for it, the council refused the commitment anyway. the supplementary and amending budget was not intended to finance new policies, but merely to pay the bills that had been incurred. regions, municipalities, small and medium-sized enterprises, researchers and students have completed their projects and are now waiting for their money, trusting in the legal validity of the multiannual programmes adopted by the 2006 law. the council won't pay. the budgetary year 2013 will now, in all likelihood, begin with a gap in payments of some eur 5 billion imposed by the council, with eur 9 billion in debt from the current financial year, i.e. a budget deficit. this is clearly contrary to article 310 of the treaty. ladies and gentlemen, this is the biggest break we've ever had. breach of trust, breach of duty, breach of contract. and who really believes that the council will keep its promises next year? it should be clear to everyone that a broken promise is a committed crime.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would have liked to have had more understanding today of the technical difficulties which the member states have and have had with supplementary budget no 6. we must learn from the crisis and understand what it means for the member states. we need to revise the timetables for the after-school activities to avoid a situation like this happening again. we must also look at the consequences of commitments, because the council knows very well that commitments mean payments. so if we're gonna get this game on the road, god help us. i don't think we should do that. that means that we have to work on this problem beyond today. as regards the 2013 budget, i would like to draw attention to heading 5, the administrative budget. we have a 1.82 percent increase. the budget as a whole has increased by 1.57%, which means that the increase in the administrative budget is slightly higher. i also point out that pensions will be increased by 5.09%. this is another number that must give us pause. everyone else has to bleed, while nothing happened in the administrative budget. there is another matter which has not been dealt with, and that is very important to me. there was an amendment, signed by all the political groups, which concerns the implementation of the olaf trilogue negotiations, the legal basis of olaf, namely the question of the equipment of the monitoring committee. i think we need a monitoring committee that can do its job, especially in the face of a director-general who is quite self-confident - to avoid the word 'self-righteous' here - a very opinionated director-general. we must be prepared to equip the monitoring committee much better than we have done so far. we have agreed that, and it would be nice if the model that jutta haug has recorded, breach of the law and breach of the promise, did not apply here as well. we are well advised to equip the institution we have jointly created and jointly used in such a way that it can do its job. i would therefore urge you to support the amendment which will be tabled again next year.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to remind you why the commission presented the so-called airport package in december last year. as one of the rapporteurs mentioned, it is very difficult to build new airports and new runways and to extend airports in europe today. at the same time, european airspace is saturated, and the resulting congestion could mean delays for half of all flights across the network by 2030. this is why the commission has proposed some moderate changes in the existing regulations concerning airport services to ensure better use of existing airport capacities. let me start with groundhandling. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr zasada, for all the work he has done over the last month. this work has not been easy by any means. i am fully convinced that we have produced a balanced proposal. it marries the need for greater efficiency and higher quality at european airports with advancing the protection of social rights. the commission is not proposing wild liberalisation. it is hardly wild liberalisation to move from today’s choice between two groundhandling service providers in frankfurt airport to three at the larger airports for a restricted category of services. this is accompanied by a number of provisions introduced to strengthen workers’ rights and safeguard quality. some have claimed that safety would be at risk if europe moved from two to three suppliers. this is just not true. we already have a situation in the great majority of member states where at least three suppliers are allowed, and safety has not been compromised. the commission proposal is a modest step towards greater market opening, while promoting social protection and ensuring that higher quality standards will be met. let me also remind you that in 2007 the european parliament, by way of the jensen resolution, called on the commission to review the existing situation in groundhandling. the jensen report asked for an increase in the minimum numbers of suppliers to be considered. it called for action on quality criteria. the commission has responded with a balanced proposal that may, nonetheless, be improved upon. i firmly believe that we should not miss this opportunity. let me now turn to slots. i would like to thank mr uggias for the work that has been done. the commission supports many of the amendments put forward by the committee on transport and tourism. let me just briefly highlight the following point, which is of particular importance. firstly, regarding secondary trading, market-based mechanisms can help to ensure that slots – an increasingly scarce resource – are used by those carriers able to make best use of them. of course we should make sure that regional air connections can be protected, so i fully understand the proposed amendments on the possible impact of secondary trading on such links. but secondary trading should be accompanied by a tightening of the criteria for using slots. the complexities of the slot allocation process should not be used as an obstacle to developing market functionality. regarding noise, i would also like to thank the tran committee and the rapporteur on this file, mr jörg leichtfried, for all the work that has been done on this proposal. the rapporteur was able to instigate an interesting political debate. air traffic noise generates local political pressure, but any measure to mitigate the impact of noise affects a global industry. this is the heart of the problem. air traffic noise is a local issue, while noise-mitigating measures affect a global industry. we are faced with a balancing act between the local and the global. regarding the proposed commission right of scrutiny, what we have proposed can help to ensure this balance in practice. regarding the noise aspect of this package, the commission cannot accept the delayed introduction of the proposed definition of marginally compliant aircraft. i will remind you – and the rapporteur mentioned this as well – that marginally compliant aircraft are the noisiest aircraft in the fleet and produce a disproportionate amount of noise. delaying the introduction of this definition with a stepwise implementation will simply deprive national authorities across europe of cost-effective measures. i look forward to an interesting debate.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. - mr president, i have to say something. 3 000 frontline workers at european airports demonstrated outside the european parliament here in strasbourg this afternoon, as they did in brussels a few weeks ago, against plans to open up the bvd market. the commission has not heeded the message of the committee on transport and has not withdrawn its proposal. it has also ignored the position of the committee on employment and social affairs. the commissioner, my report is intended to safeguard jobs on the airport frontier. the situation is aggravated by the radical opening up of the market to new suppliers. permanent jobs are being eliminated massively. worse working conditions and wage dumping are threatening. passengers need competent handling by staff who know their trade, who have a qualified training and not courses in the hair-back process. the employment committee has exclusive competence to decide on the social aspects of the bvd regulation. we have turned the commission's broad-based network into a narrow-based social protection system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in article 12 we are calling for a job guarantee for employees whose companies are sold. article 40 provides for restrictions on competition in the case of social dumping and article 34 also provides for restrictions on shortcomings in education and training. we need a majority tomorrow to reject the commission's proposal. plan b is the employment committee report. europe needs a social face. tens of thousands of workers in the airports of the european union are entitled to a good wage and finally to social security.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the member states already have the possibility of deciding for themselves how far they wish to liberalise ground transport services at their airports. many have used this to a large extent, some less, and this naturally leads to differences in the density of ground services at individual airports. the commission now intends to reduce this gap or these differences somewhat by means of a regulation. it hopes that increased competition will improve quality, efficiency and thus the benefits for air travellers. that's all right. the rapporteur goes even further and wants radical liberalization. i am a liberal and i am in favour of liberalisation, but only if we actually achieve the real goal - and here i have my problems. i know from my own experience that it is not the number of ground transport services that determines whether i get good quality and good service, but how the ground transport workers are qualified, what their working conditions are, how much fun they have providing their service at all. i see the real problem here, and that is why i do not believe that we are achieving the real objective by blindly increasing the number of people taking part in ground transport services, and i am therefore very critical. i can accept the somewhat limited increase in liberalisation proposed by the commission, always on the condition that the member states decide in the last resort, and in the light of the specific local circumstances. the differences between individual airports are very great. i know that, for example, my own airport in frankfurt has a new runway. the space available for ground transport services has therefore become much smaller because of the increase in traffic volume, and this must be taken into account. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the speaker agrees to answer three questions under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not well, there's certainly no war. what i am saying is that we must approach the objective of liberalization with moderation. we must approach it in such a way that the local, specific characteristics of an airport are fully taken into account, and an airport is not the same as an airport. there are differences. when i think of frankfurt, i realize that although we now have more traffic, that we have an additional runway, the construction of terminal 3, which is actually intended to complete the whole expansion, has not even begun. and in view of this, i cannot say at this stage that i am liberalizing - and, moreover, as the rapporteur has suggested - and doubling the number of ground transport services. they'd be stepping on each other's toes, it wouldn't work. and therefore with moderation, and in advance, with qualifications and reasonable working conditions, so that the service and the quality are really guaranteed.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i do not need to answer mr zasada's last remark in detail, it was more a comment than a question. we are well advised to give the member states the opportunity to react to the situation in accordance with their own labour laws. i can only repeat what i have already said: as long as the local conditions are such that an extension, whether by one or two ground transport service companies, is simply not feasible, we should not think about it and should leave it to the member states to see when the time has come to actually move forward, and that is my view.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not so i have to say, i don't understand you, dear colleague. i did not say that all airports should now be able to use the frankfurt broom. on the contrary, i am merely saying that the member states must have the right to decide in the light of the local specificities of their airports. if the others say that we are equipped to double the number of ground transport services, well, fine, i do not want to stand in the way of that.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the transport committee has already rejected the commission's proposal on ground services at airports by a majority. i would ask you to reject the commission's proposal also in the vote in plenary tomorrow. please follow the vote of the committee responsible. the adoption of the proposal would open the door to further wage dumping at airports and at the same time jeopardise passenger safety. competition must not take place through mutual under-biding of wages. the work of man must be sufficient to sustain him without additional state support. the safety of passengers and workers at airports and in the air is not something that can be bought at zero cost. i would now like to move from the airport staff to the local people. the citizens of the airports are the ones who bear the brunt of the ever-increasing air traffic. operational restrictions and noise protection must be decided by the member states in the light of local conditions and impacts. article 10 on the commission's powers of control must be rejected. operational restrictions must be the first means of choice to protect the neighbourhood and the affected regions from aircraft noise quickly and effectively. health before profit.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, the whole airport package has been a complete failure for you. the european parliament has therefore extracted several fangs from you at the crucial points, and once even the whole of your tooth. in the case of noise-related operating restrictions at airports, there was a legitimate concern on the part of the competent authorities and many concerned citizens that the commission was interfering beyond what was necessary in the procedure. here we have reduced the role of the commission to the point where it is clear: yes, she's being informed of any planned operational restrictions. yes, she can speak. yes, the relevant authorities can take that into account, but they don't have to. and that's the crucial point. where the noise is generated, there must also be responsible decision-making. i would ask you, mr president, to withdraw the proposal tomorrow, when the negative vote of the committee on transport is confirmed. it does not produce what you claim, namely more quality through more suppliers or more efficiency, because you create more interfaces, more downtime and therefore less productivity per worker. they have not demonstrated that a liberalised airport is better than one with only two operators. the already liberalised part of the ground transport services makes it clear where the journey is going in terms of wages. i'm not good at that either. i think we should follow the opinion and vote of the committee on transport on this matter. if we do indeed have this whole dossier off the agenda after a rejection and also after a corresponding legislative resolution which is negative, then i am willing to look at a slimmed down, very precise proposal which focuses on improving quality. we must improve here and there, but not through wages or through forced liberalization.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have been talking about ground handling for quite some time now, and mr zasada is right. the real liberalisation took place in 1996. but it had fatal consequences for the pay and working conditions of the employees. the regulation we are discussing today is centred on a measure which, if it is of a certain size, will make it compulsory to provide for a third competitor, but which has been voluntary for a long time. and you, mr. zasada, you've added fuel to the fire by adding a fourth. that's something that's not working for us! we social democrats say that without adequate protection for the workers, we cannot do this, and this includes the regulated transfer of the company for all sectors, the reference to a representative collective agreement, the minimization of subcontractors and associated with this - if they are already there - the requirement that they must comply with the same conditions. that is not the case, and that is why we are not going to have any further forced liberalization. the whole thing is not a german-austrian invention either, but the conclusion of the european transport workers' union. the objective of increasing the competitiveness of european airports vis-à-vis non-european hubs cannot, in our view, be achieved by this measure. and let me say this, commissioner: you are quoted in the european voice of st. nicholas day saying that you are a bit disappointed that the airlines have not been so active in lobbying: but the airlines who wanted this, have not been so active in lobbying. i think it is rare, ladies and gentlemen, for a vice-president of the commission whose proposal is rejected because it is simply not good to express regret afterwards that the beneficiary companies did not have sufficient influence on us members. and i want to tell you, commissioner, that is wrong. they were all with me. but they didn't convince me. the lobbyists who impressed me are müller, kovács, gonzalez, smith. they were outside parliament today with over 3 000 colleagues because they are afraid of their poor working conditions. and they really convinced me that the way you've presented it, it's not going to work. (applause from the centre) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not the question was short and to the point. yes, i want to do that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr kallas! i was glad you brought up the noise. but we thought, as with emissions, there would be noise limits, minimum standards that you can't exceed. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet ready to take a decision on the matter. imagine: in frankfurt am main there is a citizens' initiative that has been fighting for decades for noise reduction, which convinces the politicians and the landtag, and finally the politicians say: okay, there is now a night flight ban in frankfurt because of the noise and then the commission comes and says: we will lift it. we are in favour of maximising profits first. the night flight ban has been lifted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that is why this cannot be the case and it is good that this proposal has been rejected. but you want an opinion, you want to make an opinion yourself, and then maybe the courts will decide: the commission is right, maximising profits is paramount, we do not care about the people. that can't happen, and if it's about money, i'll tell you again: the airlines in europe are given 30 billion euros every year by the european taxpayer because they do not pay a tax on kerosene and on international relations they do not pay vat. it's not about competition, because the railways have to pay for all this. imagine if the european railways were to receive 30 billion euros a year. we'd have a good network, we'd have low prices, air traffic would be cut in half, and we wouldn't have saturated airspace, like you said. this is a bubble. we cannot create a real estate bubble like in spain here in the airline industry. ensure fair competition with fair prices. everyone pays or not everyone pays. but no: one pays, the others do not, and then the climate killers are favoured and the environmentally friendly modes of transport are damaged. that would be your task for the people of europe!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have indeed had very emotional discussions here, and since i have been in parliament it has rarely been so intense, including visits to lobbyists and the like. the fact is that you have to assume that the whole proposal for the airport package was to pave the way for the single european sky, the single european airspace, and to improve various things. the question is, of course, whether the proposals are right in all cases. for example, in the area of noise reduction, we were told that health should not be put at the expense of profits, and that is absolutely true. but if we only look at health and not at airports being able to operate, it's not a balanced approach, it's not a balanced approach that we want to have. we want to be able to operate here, and we want the airports to be able to contribute as locations. and as far as ground transport services are concerned, i actually see things quite similarly to mathieu grosch: it is that liberalization was possible before, zurich with many providers has good quality, frankfurt with only two providers also has good quality. the number of providers alone does not do it, but we had no standards of qualification, for example, and no standards at all for employment, for training workers. that is something worth talking about again in committee.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we social democrats are naturally also interested in a successful european economy. but a good, efficient economy also requires well-educated, well-paid and well-motivated workers. and i am a little disappointed about the discussion here today - about what the unions have done here in terms of information and education on the consequences of further liberalization of ground transport services. i must say that when a business enterprise is at our doorstep, i have never heard such negative criticism as the representatives of the workers have had to hear today for their work here for us. i do not know whether you have any idea, commissioner, mr zasada and some of the other members here, what the liberalization policy at european level has done in europe in recent years! there are people out there who are afraid for their jobs. they fear that in the future they will not be able to feed their families. they're afraid of insecure, precarious jobs. it's a pity what you do to people. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the last liberalisation in germany has led to a 20% loss in real wages. 40% of the floor cleaning workers work for wages of 7 or 8 euros. no one can live on that in germany! and i've noticed that in other european countries -- where liberalization is already much further -- it's still much, much more extreme. we need good jobs, we need competition at the airports, but we also need quality, quality borne by the workers. and we must not forget them in everything you do here! we have tried to improve some of these things in the employment committee. it's worked out. that has already been said. but we social democrats are not satisfied with that! we want protection, we want no social dumping, we want a good education!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. let us put aside all emotions and ideologies and try to take a pragmatic approach to ground transport services. never before have we considered that a specific european law is necessary when it affects only two or three companies in the eu, whether in a positive or negative sense. today, the aim is to further liberalize ground transport services for all airports, although each airport is already allowed to have more than two operators and the vast majority of airports do. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so who benefits from interfering with these locally determined and functioning airport structures? if our european airlines are threatened with destruction because two or three european airports offer only two instead of three or four ground handling services, then i am very worried. then, to save them, we must start completely different activities, start now. i am thinking of the abolition of emissions trading in aviation and the immediate implementation of the single european airspace, but also the abolition of air traffic taxes, for example in germany. of course, there are no ground transport services which cannot be improved and made more efficient, but for that we need standards, standards, improved training and training content, good wages, but we do not need the arbitrary increase in the number of providers in the limited market. i ask you to vote tomorrow in favour of the motion tabled by the committee on transport. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am particularly pleased that the commission's original powers to monitor and suspend national operating restrictions, such as a re-entry ban, will be abolished. such a competence of the commission would be incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. the balancing process necessary for such restrictions can only be effectively decided on the spot by the national authorities and courts. however, there are other elements where the balance between the interests of the transport industry and the interests of noise protection is not adequately achieved. for example, noise abatement measures are permitted as long as they do not restrict the capacity of the airport. such a unilateral restriction of decision-making powers could exclude operational restrictions with the aim of noise reduction and is therefore unacceptable.
the commission has already done so. we can measure a lot of things today. we can measure noise in decibels, but the direct effects on humans are very difficult to measure, and the more frequently we are exposed to intense noise, the more sensitive we become and the more our stress responses are affected. it is important to involve the people concerned in the decision-making on aviation noise abatement measures, to listen to their concerns and concerns. it must remain a matter for the local authorities to take account of the specific situation of an airport in the region. noise impacts are local, so decisions must be made locally with the local population. only here can the most appropriate individual solutions to noise problems be developed and a final decision made. the commission cannot simply overrule decisions taken locally, especially those which have been the result of a mediation process, and i think it is simply presumptuous... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. today is a good day because we are launching something that was born here in the european parliament, which has been taken up by the commission, thankfully, and which now has enough member states who want to introduce what is urgently needed in the context of enhanced cooperation, namely financial markets' participation in dealing with the cost of the damage they have caused themselves. it is not possible to understand that if i have a quick beer at 11 o'clock tonight, i will of course have to pay vat, whereas if hundreds of millions are transferred to financial markets, the whole thing is tax free. i therefore say quite clearly that it is right for a few countries to move forward. europe has always taken a step forward when a few brave states were willing to work together and solve common problems together, and those who need a little more time to understand that what those few have done is wise can then happily follow in the next few years. that is what europe is all about. this is the signal we urgently need, and we can be proud of having helped to set this in motion as members of the european parliament. that is why we, the cdu/csu group in the european parliament, will vote in favour of the podimata report tomorrow with full conviction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i believe that the european parliament is sending an important signal to the financial sector to participate in the impact of the financial crisis. the financial market tax will help to speed up trade and also curb harmful speculation. we in parliament are now paving the way for the tax to be introduced in the member states - at least in some of them. however, this should not be a free hand in the design of the tax concept. the risk of distortions of competition in the internal market remains, namely between those countries which apply the ftt and those which do not. it is therefore right that parliament should call on the commission to carry out an impact study on tax collection under enhanced cooperation. the development of the financial transaction tax must not be overlooked. we shall only achieve our real objective if the tax is applied as widely as possible throughout europe, indeed globally. all european institutions must work towards this work consistently towards this. simply sitting back and hoping that the ftt will prove itself as a model for other states is i think not enough. and since the european parliament is involved in the main issues of the internal market, it must also have a full say in the taxation of financial markets. we in parliament are in full agreement on the european path, and it is more than regrettable that the council does not show this agreement!
the commission has already done so. first of all, i should like to thank our rapporteur, who has done a good job on a very emotional subject, and which will be a good result in the end if we vote tomorrow as he proposes. we are talking about animals for slaughter, not for breeding or even for domestic use - the latter two categories are generally well transported. the first and most important condition is the consistent enforcement and harmonised controls of the existing regulation in the member states themselves. the member states are called upon to do this, and the commission is still called upon to do this. firstly, because it is about the welfare of animals, and secondly, because it is also our declared aim to create comparable and fair conditions of competition within the eu. secondly, this good report must not be reduced to the question of whether or not the demand for an eight-hour limit is included. the limit of eight hours is a guideline, taking into account charging time, geographical conditions and other factors. but it is an important prerequisite for this report. and we have never achieved anything like this before in this way, so i'm grateful for what we've achieved. i would like to stress once again that we must pay attention to the conditions of transport, but also to the framework conditions of transport. and the application of the rules must be guaranteed. and thirdly, the number of animals transported in europe must be reduced. in this context, parliament calls in this report and in the second pillar of the cap for short transport times to be made possible through small local slaughterhouses and, as a consequence, for the transport of meat and not the animals themselves. that would make sense. we have ruined that with our european regulations. i would also say that frozen meat from overseas is accepted by consumers, and so i see that our meat could also be accepted frozen - slaughtered in small abattoirs.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport of animals is not subject to any restrictions. the problem is that we have laws and policies today that are not implemented everywhere and are not adequately controlled everywhere. that's why these images are created. but if we remember that we have to make laws and policies based on scientific data, we should also consider the causes of long transport routes in europe. we have here in the european parliament drawn up the directives which ensure long transport routes as the hygiene standards and health control requirements become increasingly high. this has led to the loss of many slaughterhouses which could not compete here because of the cost. so if we want to achieve shorter transport times, we have to change the framework. and above all, we must do something to protect animals by finally implementing the existing directives in all the member states and also ensuring that this is monitored throughout. another problem is that a small number of slaughterhouses or short transport routes leave farmers with no choice. they are thus forced to transport to the nearest slaughterhouse and are thus excluded from competition. we must also take this into account. and i think that the report that mr wojciechowski has presented is a very good report and we can support it in that way.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. one million europeans and i have signed the petition to limit the transport time of animals for slaughter to eight hours. the longer the transport, the worse the suffering of the animals. and there is no need for us to transport animals for slaughter - animals in general - for more than eight hours. we must make sure that the transport routes are as short as possible. the conditions under which transport takes place are also crucial. the demands in the report to allow exceptions to transport times due to congestion or other unforeseen events are not acceptable to me. the situation is different in the peripheral and mountain regions. the high standards of hygiene forced many small slaughterhouses to close. we should have stopped that. i would like to say that the standards are perfectly fine, but we should have helped to preserve the small farms. i welcome the calls in this report to make local slaughterhouses profitable again. we're gonna kill two birds with one stone. we are reducing the transport time for animals and increasing local value creation, creating jobs.
in writing. the commission's report on the implementation of the 2005 regulation has clearly shown that there is still a significant need for improvement in the transport of livestock. not only have eu rules failed to bring about a real improvement in the transport conditions for animals, but major shortcomings have also been identified in the implementation of the rules in the member states. rules that nobody controls are naturally circumvented. with the own-initiative report before us, you, dear karin, have succeeded in striking a great balance between animal welfare and producers in remote regions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare system is properly implemented. the reduction in the time allowed for transport, combined with calls for better transport conditions and better controls in the member states, is a good package of measures which could make a significant contribution to animal welfare. i urge all those present to support this very good proposal with their votes and hope that the commission will also put forward concrete legislative initiatives on this basis in the future.
i am not going to go into detail. we will begin our workday today with a solemn session. i am pleased to welcome you here in the chamber, in an unusual setting as you can see: in the middle are the ladies and gentlemen whom we have invited, also as the representatives of the citizens of our european union, to take part in a short ceremony which we are holding here this morning to celebrate the award of the nobel peace prize to the european union. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to welcome you to the viewing platforms. i'm glad you're joining us for this celebration. we'll start this celebration with a short film that i'd like to record. (film playing) (applause from the centre and the right) mr mavroyiannis, mr barroso, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the european union, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, it is a great pleasure for me to welcome you to the european parliament here in strasbourg for our little ceremony to award the nobel peace prize to the european union. the nobel peace prize medal and certificate are on display in the centre of the plenary. there is no better home for the future of this prize than here in the midst of the representatives of the peoples of europe. this is the home of the people, the citizens of our continent. and that's why i'm proud that we're the first place to present this award to the public this morning. i am glad that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the european parliament and to the council, and i am glad that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the european parliament. on behalf of these citizens, i was honoured to receive this prize together with herman van rompuy and josé manuel durão barroso. it was certainly one of the most moving moments in my own life, that's clear, but it was a great moment in the life of the european union. and i have to tell you, the enthusiasm that we met in oslo, the joy that people in oslo met us both with, the spontaneity of people that we experienced there, that was fascinating. i have to tell you, i wish we had some of that enthusiasm sometimes within our own union. (applause from the centre) but it also captures a sense of humility in a moment like this. and the word humility is appropriate in the face of the courage, the wisdom and the foresight of the men and women who founded the european union, in the face of this historic, courageous act for us today who are responsible in the european union. you just saw that in this movie: for centuries, our continent has probably known no day - no day! - when battles were not fought and men, women and children were not buried somewhere on this continent. not a day! it is not just the second world war, it is not just the first world war, the history of europe, ladies and gentlemen, has known practically no day when people were not being killed in some place, women were being raped, children were being taken away, houses were being burned, lands were being devastated. the peace we no longer think about. the phrase in an interview which shocked me the most, dressed in a question, is: why do we still need the european union, when we have peace? the fact that we do not know or do not want to know that we have peace because the european union exists, that scared me! and that is why i have taken the liberty of saying on your behalf in oslo that this prize is an honour, but it is also a warning, a warning to us all! if we play with the historical heritage, we will be playing with more than a treaty concluded by peoples: we will be putting at risk the peaceful future of our children and their children. many of us here, like me, are among the generation that is probably the first on this continent to say that we have not lived through war from birth to death. i want to keep it that way. peace, for me, begins with the absence of the word "but": democracy is good, but... human rights must be guaranteed, but ... tolerance is good, but... mutual respect is necessary, but... every time "but" is said, it begins to restrict rights that are non-negotiable. democracy is good yes! human rights must be respected yes! mutual tolerance is the foundation of peace yes! mutual respect for every human being yes! no, but! and that is why the european union is good! and the nobel peace prize is entitled to say yes! (applause from the centre)
ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, we have elected representatives who should come to us today as representatives of the citizens, since we cannot accommodate all 500 million. (interruption by mr langen) you've been awarded a prize, mr langen. you're welcome to join us here. i'd like to ask you to join us now, ladies and gentlemen. (applause from the centre) each of our citizens, ladies and gentlemen, will receive such a certificate with the text of the award. and the young lady standing next to me just said: 'i am very proud to be here, partly because i am greek.' i'm very happy for you. (applause from the centre) the young man here beside me is larkin zahra. he was one of the winners of our competition and he's from malta. he is 23 years of age and he was with us in oslo for this moment of great emotion. yesterday he was on the plane with us when we traveled back together. malta is the only country where the prime minister says that if you fly over the country you can see the whole country. it is a very pro-european country and larkin is a representative of the future of our continent. larkin wrote a sentence, and it's because of this sentence that he was invited to us today. i invite him to tell us what he wrote. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you, ladies and gentlemen. the working session is hereby opened and i would like to thank you very much for your participation in this solemn occasion and to express my gratitude once again to the citizens who have come to us. you have seen that the nobel prize ceremony in oslo itself was a little more perfect than the ceremony here, but that is the way european life is. i'm very proud and very happy that we were able to bring this award here today. before we get to the agenda and start the working session, let me once again congratulate josé manuel barroso on his excellent speech in oslo. it was an unforgettable moment for all of us - many of you were there, and i would also like to thank the groups who came, it was a great support for all of us, a great moment. i think it is an encouragement to all of us to continue with our daily work.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission in preparation for the european council meeting of 13 and 14 december 2012.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i was in oslo and i was very happy to be able to attend the award ceremony there. i must say, however, that i had those famous mixed feelings at the ceremony in oslo, which are now striking even more strongly here, because you could not sit there and listen to mr jagland without knowing that the prize was awarded with great hopes, of which mr jagland was no longer sure whether they were not based on sand. he has made it very clear that he is awarding the prize for what has been done in the past, and that he and the committee have decided to award it, but also in the awareness that europeans are on the best way to destroy what the founding fathers and mothers built. i think we all know that, too, with all the good speeches, with all the big and real pathos that has been around oslo. we know that we are on the way to playing down the achievements of the past. we had a budgetary compromise in our luggage when we went to oslo, which is worse and weaker than would be acceptable. the council is driving the european union into a debt situation which it wants to prevent elsewhere. the separation of commitments and payments is absurd. mr françois hollande, behind whom i sat in oslo, knows very well that he too has broken his first great promise, namely to guarantee the growth pact, with this budgetary compromise. ladies and gentlemen, we were also sitting behind mr samaras, whom we have just seen in a situation where greece had delivered and the council was so surprised that it took several weeks for the europeans to know how to react to what the greeks had done in terms of stabilisation. the third is what we have for thursday and friday. we also knew this when we were sitting in oslo and accepting the prize. we are entering a summit again which, in fact, should be building a bridge between the awareness of past achievements and the need for the future, in the spirit of the award ceremony. and what do we find a few days after the council heads leave oslo? we find a division worse than before any summit in the last six months. the van rompuy paper adds a few new points, abandons others, and germany, which had insisted so much on banking union and on tackling the very roots of the crisis, is now blocking substantial parts of the banking union. if that's the lesson from oslo, my god, where are we? this morning i read in the figaro that some europeans have called for a coup d'état in the european parliament. i thought, "this must be cohn-bendit". but it was not, it was by helmut schmidt and jacques delors. the european parliament is to make a coup. they have realised, they have realised that the present leaders of states and governments are not capable of promoting unity beyond national interests. the european parliament must play this role. i don't know what they mean by the coup. i believe they are referring to the fact that we should work more towards the treaty changes and the continuation of the work of european unification and peace. invite them to the january part-session, invite delors and schmidt to the parliament! let's discuss the coup they think is necessary. (the speaker agrees to answer the question of another member in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.) (applause from the centre)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not we will have less money in the 2013 budget than in the 2012 budget. that is the result of the compromise which the majority of this parliament also wants to approve. i do not see that we can make the leaps for the young people that we promise to do everywhere, not even through innovation in business and industry, as we actually promised. the budget compromise is really a contribution to questioning the credibility of the european union.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. ladies and gentlemen! in his novel alexis sorbas, nikos kazantzakis has one of his heroes, who travels to the caucasus to save lives, say: we may not save them, but we save ourselves by trying to save them. and then he asks his friend, "how long will you chew paper and smear ink on yourself?" other i ask you, with the summit coming up, how long will you chew paper instead of going on the journey to at least try to save lives? the proposals for the european council to be held tomorrow are not suitable for actually saving lives, restoring social peace and thus proving worthy of the nobel peace prize. the proposals continue to focus on market integration, while social, ecological and democratic aspects are left behind. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. although some hesitant approaches to financial market regulation are certainly to be found, they are ultimately inconsistent. and they continue to make the wrong diagnosis of the debt crisis, that the countries affected are primarily responsible for what ultimately constitutes the crisis, through their budget deficits. and not only that, but the commission has been persistently and wrongly assessing the scale of the crisis for a long time. this is particularly true of the forecasts for economic development in italy and spain, but also in greece. but it is on this basis that the measures in the memoranda are defined. the commission's statements are the basis for the imf and the european central bank's experts and, of course, for the european union itself. and this can't work. the proposal that has been mentioned before to conclude 17 individual bilateral treaties between the euro countries and the eu is power-politically motivated. in a group of players with unequal power, the stronger one likes to negotiate bilaterally with the weaker one, because then the stronger one naturally has more negotiating power than if the others were really acting together. and bilateral agreements also tend to be less controlled and less transparent. this means that it will be more difficult for the national parliaments in particular, and also for the european parliament, to defend themselves, to control them, to watch over them. so it is supposed to be a smoother implementation of austerity policy, and that cannot be. in the case of the banking union, this may be quite correct, but in its present form it is not sufficient, nor are the criteria strong enough to have a real effect on limiting the powers, size and scope of the large institutions. and so long as that is the case, supervision by the banking union will be difficult, if these individual banks are not to be controlled to any extent. and from the democratic point of view, too, i think that is totally unacceptable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. some colleagues have just spoken of the great visions they are missing. i'm not sure if this is the time for big visions or more of a hands-on job. i am much closer to commission president barroso. people will be watching to see if we solve the problems that are coming up, and that is unfortunately hard work. you have to work through it step by step, and that's what counts. we must also make good on what we have achieved, and in this respect i do not understand mr verhofstadt at all, who is always making the big move here to make the two-pack fail. this is irresponsible! we are on a really good path at a point that has nothing to do with this two-pack, and it is taking over the whole club here so that we block instead of moving on. it's irresponsible, because loud and loud talk is useless. or if i look at how far we have come with the hop-and-pull decisions, do you remember the eba decisions? zack-zack, quick decision, and in the end, we realize that's not what we need. so we have to do something new. maybe it's really wiser sometimes to work through it and ask a few more questions. what is the point of talking about a great, functioning, necessary and independent banking supervision if it does not work in the end and if we create a bureaucratic monster that rules every county and city savings bank? no one wants to do that. we need tools that will help solve the problem, not super-solutions that will just end up bypassing many of these questions. i would like to conclude by saying that i am very concerned that there is now again a new proposal for the insurance and cushioning of shocks in the world. i think we need not a new instrument every week but realistic work, piece by piece, according to the principles we have once decided. we said solidarity and responsibility. president barroso has just made this point. if we all stuck to it and didn't go off piece by piece, the successes that you can see, the small successes, would become bigger.
i have to say, madam president, the banking union is a matter on which this parliament has acted responsibly and swiftly. we have already called for this two years ago. the proposals are finally here and we have found our position here faster than the council, and with a large majority. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. firstly, it must be a matter of a large majority of member states participating and all countries being given equal consideration, so that it is attractive for poland, sweden and others to be involved. a new division of financial supervision in europe must be avoided. secondly, we must prevent each member state from wanting to make exceptions to this banking union and then making it look like swiss cheese. this parliament will ensure that this banking supervision is comprehensive in the end. however, what i am very sceptical about at the moment is that people are hearing that this new joint banking supervision should consist of 200 people for all the major banks in europe. we do not need a common banking union with a fig leaf of a few officials who then do not have the necessary resources to ensure really strong and comprehensive control. the staff of the banking union must be european officials and not just envoys from the member countries. and it has to be strong enough to actually exert that control. the failure of banks has cost taxpayers enough, so this step towards europeanisation must be carried out properly and comprehensively. (the speaker agrees to answer the question of another member in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not my fear is that if these countries do not participate, and if your country - and i appreciate your commitment to sweden's accession to the euro - does not participate in the next step of supervision, then it will be more difficult, because some of the banks have been operating inside and outside the euro area for a long time. so we are dealing with a split supervision which is per se less efficient. it is also to be feared that there is a real risk that for some banks refinancing costs will be higher in the medium term if there is no strong common supervision. finally, i am also afraid of the consequences for european policy, because the countries which are more closely integrated will ultimately have more opportunities to participate in decision-making. on the other hand, there is a danger that those who do not join will become a kind of bloc, perhaps practicing with the uk in denial, and that would be really very unfortunate, because it is bad enough that the uk is not joining. we should not allow another split to occur.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr mauro is right: things are being dragged. and that is bad for the eurozone, that is bad for europe. they will be deported at least until after the elections to the bundestag, and that cannot be allowed to pass because europe must be able to make decisions. but it is worse: not only are they being taken away, but there is also the push to undermine democracy. what is the point of the proposal that member states should conclude contracts with european institutions? who controls contracts? can the national parliament still control contracts? i'm not sure. can the european parliament control the contracts? i'm not sure. i therefore have a very different proposal and i am addressing it to the commission before the council destroys everything we have worked out. mr barroso, you have understood, and the commission has understood. i read an article by mr rehn in a major german daily newspaper in which he says: 'yes, we need more flexibility in the stability and growth pact.' that is what the social democrats have been saying for months and years: we need more investment. let us conclude a treaty - an interinstitutional agreement! we'll do this in a co-decision. yes, we are setting the economic policy guidelines in codecision. yes, we also decide on their youth guarantee in a codecision procedure and then we make sure that the member states meet their objectives. that would be progress for europe, but there is no progress without democracy, and there is no progress without the full participation of the european parliament as the representative body of the citizens. this is the message to a council that is incapable of leading us out of the crisis.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr bullmann, of course, has the old socialist formula of not limiting consumption expenditure and then calling for investment expenditure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. but we agree on one thing: nothing can happen without democracy. i thank you, mr president of the commission, for your clear commitment to community solutions in your blueprint, for your clear statement that the community institutions must be competent, that community rules must be respected in the face of new developments, and that there must be no new responsibilities and procedures which are not decided by the community procedure. this means that everything - and this is what van rompuy and barroso say - that happens at european level must be decided or controlled by the european parliament. i believe that at a time of crisis, when decisions must be taken quickly, this principle must not be lost suddenly between 1 and 15 january, when decisions on financial capacity are suddenly to be taken under pressure from the ecb. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. i would just like to encourage you to see the european parliament deciding matters at european level and to see national parliaments strengthened to monitor their governments at national level and to see that there are round tables between the competent representatives of the competent committees in the national parliaments and in the european parliament, in accordance with protocol no 1 to the lisbon treaty. i believe that is the right way to go, and i can only encourage you to do the same tomorrow night. (the speaker agrees to answer the question of another member in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to ask you, mr brok, whether you are aware that the social democrats have proposed greater flexibility in the stability and growth pact - exclusively for investments in the future? and are you still aware that your group rejected it?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the speaker does not speak into the microphone. ...says you don't have to save all of it, because you can be generous with your investments. there is an intrinsic link between sound budgetary structures and the scope for more investment. and if we violate that principle, we run into the void. please don't use your alibis.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, several speakers referred to the nobel peace prize. i was very privileged to be able to take part in the ceremony. members of this were probably able to see the major part of the ceremony, but not all the events which have taken place over the last two days. i know the president of the european parliament is not here, but i would like to take this opportunity to say how proud i was of the way in which our three presidents conducted the whole ceremony and represented our institutions. the overall atmosphere was extremely positive, forthcoming and, in my opinion, appreciative of what the european union has done, and will motivate us all to do even more in the future. i really would like to thank all three of them for their brilliant performance over the last two days. turning to today’s debate, i think that most of the questions referred to the ambitions and the architecture we suggested in the blueprint. to be completely honest as regards our ambitions, we believed that by this december we would have got a little further: that we would already have the single supervisory mechanism in place, that the two-pack would have been agreed and that we would have made progress on many other issues which were brought before the council and the parliament some time ago. therefore i think it is also very important to generate momentum and make sure that we have these very important decisions in place by the end of this year. i was speaking yesterday, with minister mavroyiannis, to the general affairs council and stated very strongly that we need to have an agreement on the single supervisory mechanism now. this is the anchor we need in order to build a fully-fledged banking union. we need a decision, we need it now and i hope we will get it tomorrow. what is very important for the commission – and we are making this point very clear in our discussions with the council as well – is appropriate financing. it is quite clear that we must make sure that discipline and responsibility go hand in hand with solidarity and convergence. we clearly need both, and i think this is very much reflected in our blueprint. turning to the redemption fund, this is an excellent idea, but unfortunately at this stage there are two very important problems connected with it. the first is the legal problem. all of us here are strong supporters of the community method, and we have received very strong and clear advice that, if we want to use the community method, we cannot build a redemption fund at this stage. if we want to take it outside the community method, as with esm, maybe we could consider it, but that raises another problem, namely the political problem. very often the political families which support a proposal here in the european parliament are very much against it when it is raised in their national capitals. so i think that we would need some time to adjust our legal base and secure support for this idea in the national capitals as well. but, as you can see in our blueprint, we consider it to be a very important idea and an instrument for the future. i would also like to assure all those members of the parliament who are worried about future divisions being created and new walls being built in the european union that the commission will do its utmost to prevent that. therefore all the proposals we have put on the table are based on openness. we recognise that the euro zone will probably need to move faster, but we want to keep all policies open and to keep the single market open for all 27 member states. it is a very challenging task, but we are absolutely determined to achieve it. turning to the questions concerning the convergence and competitiveness instrument, our proposal for this instrument is based – and will be based – on the community method. this instrument should not be described as an agreement or treaty between the eu and the member states. it concerns specific arrangements relating to specific challenges which sometimes occur if countries have to go through very challenging and difficult structural reforms without having at their disposal adequate financial support to carry such important structural changes into effect. therefore we want to have this instrument at our disposal so that, if such cases arise, we are able to show additional solidarity and help countries to reform, to get back on their feet and to achieve the ambitious goals of major structural reform programmes of this kind. we regard it as fully in accordance with the community method and an additional means of showing solidarity. we are, of course, accountable to you and therefore the european parliament will also be fully informed and will have this instrument under total scrutiny. this brings me to my last two points. the first one is the two-pack. please help us to get it agreed because, if it is not, i am very much afraid that this could serve as a pretext for those who do not want to go forward any faster. i do not think that we should give them that excuse. therefore i hope that we will able to find a compromise on the two-pack because, much as we need a single supervisory mechanism, we also need a two-pack to build our structure for future economic and monetary governance. concerning the social dimension, i would like to assure you that this is very important for the commission. we are very aware of the fact that we are going through an unprecedented crisis with tremendously high unemployment. as i am sure you have seen in our employment package, with our youth guarantee proposals and our action teams in those member states where unemployment of young people is exceptionally high, we are trying to do our utmost with the resources we have. but we also want to proceed — and i believe that we will get support for this from this house —with tackling tax fraud and tax evasion, as a result of which we are losing so much money. we need to develop further policies for young people which will help them to get decent and adequate jobs as soon as possible after they finish their schooling.
president of the council. - mr president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a few comments on everything and no answers to the questions that have been raised. i shall start where vice-president šefčovič left off: the social dimension and solidarity. they are clearly present in the draft conclusions we have before us for tomorrow, as well as the fundamental question of employment, growth and youth employment. i think these issues are part of the centre of gravity of what we are doing at the moment and the president of the european council is well aware - and the question has been raised by many member states - that we have to find the right balance between all these dimensions, which are all necessary and indispensable. and we can't do everything at once. on the fiscal capacity of the eurozone, i have to say that in the council and in the draft european council conclusions we deliberately refrained from mentioning the term 'budget'. he's not on the list. we are talking about contractual arrangements, in connection with national reform programmes, we are talking about how to finance them and how to link them also to the commission's recommendations to the countries. the president of the european council and the president of the commission will be conducting in the coming months - and this is part of the draft conclusion - consultations on fiscal capacity and they will be making proposals. the commission will make proposals on how to set up this fiscal capacity and the european council will come back in march. as regards the single supervisory mechanism, we all know - and this has been said many times - that it is both the key to implementing the decision of the eurozone summit last june on direct bank recapitalisation and an essential component of the banking union. of course, important questions remain to be resolved: the articulation between participants and non-participants, and among the non-participants, those who have the vocation and the ambition to join. we also need to regulate the relationship between what we do in the single supervisory mechanism and the single market, and the other acquis of the union. it is also necessary to ensure a very clear distinction between the monetary and the supervisory functions of the european central bank. we must also find the right balance and the right link between the european mechanisms and the existing national mechanisms, and the capacity and scope of these mechanisms which, whatever our position in principle, cannot in fact cover, from the first days of its application, the more than 6 000 banking institutions. so like i said, we're working on it. we must move forward, but at the same time we must be aware that we cannot do everything in one european council meeting and we cannot, if you will, dilute everything by talking about everything. that is so, and i apologize to you. i hope that we can reach a conclusion soon on the two-pack, the eurobonds and the european redemption fund. but speed is essential in this area. are we questioning the value and importance of eurobonds or the european redemption fund? no, i'm not worried. but can all these issues be solved in the two-pack, without going round and round and wasting precious time? i have serious doubts about that. so it seems to me essential to stop, especially at this crucial moment, cultivating the narcissism of small differences that sigmund freud spoke of. let us work together for an effective and efficient europe, a europe of results, as mr audy said earlier. it should be remembered that jean monnet said that europe would not be built all at once, but by consolidating institutions and de facto solidarity leading gradually to the creation of what he called the organic conditions for peace. i understand the frustration. the pace may not seem, for some of us, to match our ambitions. but we're on the right track. we are putting in place the building blocks of a genuine economic and monetary union. we have the reports of the four presidents. we have the commission's blueprint and we will continue to work together and do everything we can to get results as quickly as possible. i will end by saying that it is true that at the present time a differentiation between countries is inevitable. we see it every day. but at the same time, if you can't control something, it was general de gaulle who said, "let's pretend we're the organisers". let us work, let us work as much as possible so that this differentiation is structured, agreed and coordinated, as on a motorway: there are lines, but there are also rules; i am not saying that the european union should be a political union, but that it should be a political union, and that it should be a political union.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i too would like to return to the nobel peace prize. i feel it as an obligation to do more than we have done so far. and that is why i say, with regard to the sakharov prize, that it is not enough for us as the european parliament to award this prize to iranian prisoners. we must do more. we must ensure - and this applies to the other eu institutions - that the issue of economic sanctions is taken to a different level. we must be careful not to weaken the poorest of the poor in iran, but to find smarter solutions, especially with regard to sanctions, which should be applied first of all to the government and first of all to state television, all those who practically prevent the opposition and others from really addressing the truth about the stoning, the violation of human rights and the torture in prisons. i was anxious to mention this here, so that we do not lose sight of this when we honour the sakharov prize winners, so that we remember that there is still much more to be done and that we, in particular the european parliament, should intensify our efforts to promote and intensify dialogue with the opposition, with the people of iran, for example by visiting our parliamentary delegations.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. it is a great honour for me to present today the sakharov prize for freedom of thought of the european parliament to mrs nasrin sotoudeh and mr jafar panahi. (applause from the centre) the european parliament's sakharov prize 2012 recognises the extraordinary efforts made by ms sotoudeh and mr panahi in the fight for human dignity, fundamental rights and political change in iran. the sakharov prize 2012 is also a tribute to the iranian people, to their vibrant and creative civil society. it's also a tribute to iranian cinema. iranian cinema has a proud tradition that goes back to the 1920s. iranian art cinema, with its highly political and philosophical themes, has conquered screens around the world and won countless prestigious film awards. many of you, ladies and gentlemen, know nasrin sotoudeh as a distinguished lawyer who has devoted many years to defending young people facing the death penalty. she represented prisoners of conscience, human rights activists and also participants in the opposition protests of 2009. mrs sotoudeh is also a highly respected member of the centre for human rights defenders and the international federation for human rights. in 2010, she was sentenced to six years in prison for i quote the reasoning of the sentence her advocacy for, for example, young people who have been sentenced to death. the iranian regime says that anyone who does this is acting against iran's national security. on 17 october 2012, ms. sotoudeh went on a hunger strike, declaring: "i am ready to die for justice" as a non-violent protest against the continued violation of the fundamental rights of iranian citizens by their own government. but this hunger strike was also a desperate appeal to the authorities of her country to end the constant harassment of her family. we were very relieved to hear last week that mrs sotoudeh had ended her hunger strike after the iranian authorities finally lifted the travel ban on her 12-year-old daughter. we wish nasrin sotoudeh a speedy recovery. on behalf of the european parliament - i am assuming, on behalf of all of you - i repeat here our call to the iranian government: release this brave and determined woman, together with her fellow fighters! release her immediately and unconditionally from this shameful confinement! (applause from the centre) the situation in iran is critical. the root of the manifold evils that afflict this proud people is a politically controlled and fanatical judicial system. there's no accountability in this country. every day, innocent people are arrested for speaking their minds. lawyers, political activists, human rights defenders, artists and filmmakers. i want to say clearly that we, the representatives of the european people, condemn this injustice. and the iranian regime should know that this house stands with the oppressed in this country, and that is one reason why we honor this fighter and this fighter for civil society in iran. we have the honour to say that there is one institution which is opposed to this unjust regime, and that is the european parliament. (applause from the centre) the second winner of this year's sakharov prize is filmmaker jafar panahi: an exceptional talent who has expressed his dreams and ideals in great films. and i'm glad, ladies and gentlemen, that his daughter, who sits to my left, has found her way to us. it is a great pleasure to welcome her to our home. (applause from the centre) mr. panahi never took the easy way out. he never shied away from controversy. his humorous, satirical and succinct portrayals of iranian society have delighted and entertained his audiences. but they have also always been a way to defend freedom of speech and thought, to push back the boundaries that are being put in this country on freedom of speech and thought. mr panahi has been severely punished for this. his freedom of expression was restricted again and again. several of his internationally awarded films have been banned by the iranian regime. mr panahi has been convicted on several occasions of, according to the statement, 'intention to commit crimes against the national security of the country' and 'propaganda against the islamic republic'. ladies and gentlemen, nasrin sotoudeh and jafar panahi are both unable to receive the sakharov prize in person today. despite their painful sacrifices, they are determined to continue fighting for freedom. we bow to her courage with admiration. mrs sotoudeh is represented today by mrs shirin ebadi and mr karim lahidji, who are both here and whom i warmly welcome. (applause from the centre) you all know, ladies and gentlemen: mrs ebadi, one of the first female judges in iran, was awarded the nobel prize in 2003 for her efforts to promote human rights, especially the rights of women, children and political prisoners in iran. mr lahidji has been awarded the human rights watch award for his defence of human rights and civil liberties. at mr panahi's request, he is represented here today by two renowned artists and close friends: mr constantin costa-gavras and mr serge toubiana, his "cinema family", as he calls them. (applause from the centre) i had the opportunity to say something during the preliminary discussion with our guests, and i want to conclude with this. the sakharov prize, even if we award it to men and women who cannot receive it in person, still serves a purpose. he's telling a regime, "you're being watched". the victims we honor today are our friends, they are our allies. and so i call on this regime: the european parliament honours these two as a man and a woman who stand for a different iran, for a better iran, who stand for the fact that the iranian people deserve a government that respects human dignity, and that is a different government than the disgraceful regime that this country has today. (applause from the centre) they are with us in spirit today, but mrs ebadi will speak for them first.
ladies and gentlemen, i'm going to put the papers on these two empty chairs. we can't do the honors in person. i would like to thank mrs ebadi and mr costa-gavras for the wonderful speeches and messages we have received from our laureates. you see the two empty chairs here. i'll put these papers on it. we're awarding this prize in absentia. i would ask you to stand, because we are going to play the european anthem in honour of our prizewinners. (in the words of the european anthem) (applause from the centre and the right)
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. respect for the victims of terrorist regimes does not have to be written into the constitution, you either have it or you don't! (applause from the centre)
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on the budget, and i need your full attention for a moment. i'm going to give you a brief description of the procedure we're going to follow here. this presentation is so important because it shows the way forward for the 2013 budget and the way forward for the 2012 supplementary budget no 6 both are linked , i.e. the way forward in these linked budgets, from the european parliament's point of view. it is a matter of a great deal of money, money which is not there at the moment and which we have to discuss. ladies and gentlemen, in agreement with the groups in this house, i suspended the conclusion of negotiations on the package of this amending budget no 6 and the budget for 2013. i did so because i asked for guarantees at the highest political level, at the level of the three presidents of the institutions, to ensure that all outstanding payments from 2012 to which the eu is committed can be made by budgeting additional funds, without having access to the already scarce budgetary resources for 2013. what am i talking about specifically? as at 31 october this year, there was already a eur 9 billion underfinancing for the current financial year 2012. i 'll put it in a simple way . the eu budget is running a deficit of 9 billion euros this year. on 31 october this year, the eu no longer had the funds to finance the months of november and december. that is why supplementary budget no 6 exists. i shall put this budget to the vote after my statement. but this supplementary budget covers only 6 billion of the 9 billion. in the negotiations, parliament, led by alain lamassoure and the colleagues who negotiated, accepted this reduction from 9 to 6 billion on the condition that the missing 3 billion and the other invoices still to be received by the end of the year would be budgeted next year by a rapid supplementary budget and financed by additional money. i would like to add fresh money to the budgetary term. the commitments proposed by the member states for the 2013 budget are already 5 billion below the budget very carefully drawn up by the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. to secure this additional money, i have asked for a separate signature on the parts of the text contained in the budget compromise. i have asked that the parts of the text concerning the additional appropriations be taken out of the package and signed by the three presidents of the institutions. i am reading the main points of these texts to you now because they are important for your vote. first of all, the payment appropriations for 2012: the additional payment appropriations authorised in amending budget 6 from 2012 were reduced by eur 2.9 billion with respect to the amount proposed by the commission and are not at the level of all payment claims received. therefore, the commission undertakes to present at an early stage in the year 2013 a draft amending budget devoted to the sole purpose of covering the 2012 pending legal obligations, without prejudice to the proper implementation of the 2013 budget. the council and the european parliament will take a position on this draft amending budget as quickly as possible in order to cover any outstanding gap. the european parliament and the council agree on a reduction of the level of payment appropriations for 2013 as compared to the commission's draft budget. they ask the commission to request additional payment appropriations in an amending budget if the appropriations entered in the 2013 budget prove insufficient. they are aware that a draft amending budget may possibly be required as early as mid-2013. in any event, the european parliament, the council and the commission recall their shared responsibility as laid down in article 323 of the eu treaty, that they shall ensure that the financial means are made available to enable the union to fulfil its legal obligations towards third parties. i have agreed with president barroso and minister mavroyiannis, representing the cypriot presidency, that the additional payments, the supplementary budgets described in the texts, must be used in accordance with the agreement, i.e. without prejudice to the proper implementation of the 2013 budget, i.e. in plain language, without money being taken out of the 2013 normal budget to finance the deficits no so-called redeployment. it's all very complicated. simply put, we have a $9 billion deficit this year, which we're only covering with $6 billion. we 're taking 3 billion into next year; that's already 5 billion underfunded. what i am trying to do here is to show you that i am not prepared to violate article 323, which commits the eu to a balanced budget. i will not accept a deficit budget. (applause from the centre) that is why i have refused to sign up to these procedures. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i have read this to you now. mr christofias and mr barroso have already signed this declaration. i haven't gotten to it yet. i now sign it after having asked mr mavroyiannis and mr lewandowski the following question: do you have any further comments on what i have said, or can i assume that you fully agree with what i have said here? (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) ladies and gentlemen, i will now sign the corresponding agreement. i note that the council and the commission have unanimously declared to parliament that they will make the outstanding appropriations available as additional money. on that condition, i'll sign this now. (applause from the centre) i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be involved in the matter of the budget.
that is very kind of you, because it is the basic prerequisite for me to be able to vote on the budget as it stands.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is an important question and i therefore urge that, even if it has not been requested, a roll-call vote be taken on this point if the members are in agreement.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, the european parliament has just approved the position of the council on the new draft budget for the financial year 2013 and on draft amending budget no 6/2012 without any amendments. the council notes with satisfaction that the european parliament confirmed the agreement we reached at the trialogue on 29 november 2012 and that the 2013 budget, as well as amending budget 6/2012, is therefore adopted. nevertheless, as is well known, since the budgetary procedure in 2009 the council reserves its position as to the form of the act establishing the budget under the lisbon treaty and hopes that this difference will soon find a resolution. i take this opportunity to thank once again the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr alain lamassoure, as well as the three rapporteurs, ms francesca balzani, mr giovanni la via and mr derek vaughan, for their constructive attitude during the whole budgetary procedure, which contributed particularly to the positive outcome we have reached. mr president, please allow me two more minutes, as this is the last time that i have the unique honour of addressing the plenary, at least in this capacity, representing the presidency of the council of the european union. let me express my gratitude and appreciation for the very close cooperation we have had and for some important achievements, probably the most important being today’s vote, which would not have been possible otherwise. mr president, thank you for the trust, confidence and spirit of cooperation you have personally shown towards the cyprus presidency. i would also like to thank many of you with whom, both here, in brussels and in nicosia, we have established close bonds and accomplished very good compromises and agreements. together – as general makriyannis, one of the heroes of the greek revolution of 1821, wrote – when many have contributed, do not say ‘i’, say ‘we’. we together, the members, the persons and the institutions; once again, quoting jean monnet: ‘nothing is possible without men, nothing is durable without the institutions’. let me add that nothing is ever acquis without constructive inter-institutional cooperation, with full respect for the dignity of the other and with full respect for the rights and prerogatives of the institutions. thank you once again. i wish the cyprus presidency to be remembered as an honest broker and as a presidency that has worked very hard towards a better europe, more relevant to the european citizens and in the world, trying to build a more filoxenos topos – a welcoming space for all – in all fields of human activity, but more so for the young generations in a really difficult time for the european union. (applause)
i am very grateful to you, mr minister, and i think that the applause of the house shows that your personal commitment to this house has been highly respected. i would like to thank you once again for your excellent cooperation. after the statement by mr mavroyiannis on the budget - not on the cyprus presidency, which we will discuss in january - i must now make a formal statement. but before i do that, i will take up something else that mr mavroyiannis said, namely that i would like to thank four people, actually representing the whole committee on budgets, mrs balzani, mr la via, mr vaughan and mr lamassoure. i have been involved in a budgetary procedure for the first time as president of the european parliament. i have been a member of parliament, i have been a group leader, but i have never been in this position. i have learned more about the budgetary procedure this year than in many previous years. i'm very grateful for that. i have a pretty good idea what this is about. but a big compliment to our budgetary authorities, who manage the money of the citizens - i can say this - quite carefully! so i would like to thank all the colleagues who are taking such a great part in this work. (applause from the centre) i hereby certify that the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2013 has been duly completed, in accordance with article 314 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and is deemed to be concluded. i hereby declare that the union budget for the financial year 2013 has been definitively adopted. i'll sign the budget.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, the commission regrets parliament’s decision to reject this proposal. the commission will of course now reassess the situation and consider its options; this also includes adoption of a revised proposal as was suggested by the rapporteur.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, we had a substantial discussion about this proposal yesterday. if the political decision is that this proposal will be rejected, then of course we will reassess all the possible options, including considering the package as a whole and thinking about what to do next. but if it is procedurally referred back to the committee then i am ready to work with the committee.
as a representative of my group, i have the right, as do others, to make it clear at this point that we are calling for a vote on the whole legislative process now because we want parliament to decide now and not to use delaying tactics. we consider this proposal unreasonable and we want it to be withdrawn from the parliamentary debate.
i would point out that we already registered our request on monday, that if such a question comes to the vote, we will ask for it to be put to the vote by name. (the speaker does not speak into the microphone) ... have been received and registered, so in time.
in writing. - i expressly support the concern of the members of the committee on transport. the commission's proposal to increase competition in ground transport services should be referred back to the committee responsible for negotiating new compromises or a new commission proposal. i share the concern that further competition could lead to a loss of quality and safety. we should not expose ourselves to that danger in such a security-related area. i hope that the commission will now consider a new approach. the committee on transport will be happy to look at the matter again.
in writing. - i was pleased to refer the report back to the committee on transport, and i would have preferred it had been rejected immediately or withdrawn by the commission. i think that further liberalization is economically and socially pointless, since no substantial changes or improvements are expected for passengers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in the end, we are talking about a share of a few euros per ticket, so that the best practices do not have to be abandoned.
in writing. - i expressly welcome the fact that the commission's original powers to monitor and suspend national operating restrictions, such as a night flight ban, will be abolished. such a competence of the commission would be incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. the balancing process necessary for such restrictions can only be effectively decided on the spot by the national authorities and courts. however, there are other elements where the balance between the interests of the transport industry and the interests of noise protection is not adequately achieved. for example, noise abatement measures are allowed 'if they do not restrict the capacity of the airport'. such a unilateral restriction of decision-making powers could exclude operational restrictions with the aim of noise reduction and is therefore unacceptable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the aim of the proposal is to establish a uniform method for combating aircraft noise and for assessing individual noise abatement measures, using the concept of a 'balanced approach'. the danger here is that, without parliamentary control, legislative-like provisions may be imposed on the basis of a purely private and business approach. this could have devastating consequences for the local noise aspects. i therefore urge all those responsible to keep a very close eye on the content of the icao decisions and to make any changes if necessary.
in writing. - animal welfare is a social concern and therefore also of high importance here in the european parliament. i therefore expressly support the report on the protection of animals. i see no reason to transport animals for more than eight hours, especially for slaughter. however, transport time is not the only decisive factor in the transport of animals. it is therefore important that the provisions in force are implemented and controlled. there are still problems in some member states. the infrastructure for transporting animals must also be geared to an eight-hour transport time. i think that this includes building and supporting regional slaughterhouses. if a carcass does not have to be transported for such a long time and over such a long distance, this is the best way forward.
in writing. − transporting animals in unhygienic or unfavourable conditions increases the risk of spreading diseases to humans and animals. the commission's report has shown that we have already made considerable progress. however, problems still exist, particularly with regard to full implementation and different interpretations of the regulation in the member states. the commission is called upon to ensure full implementation of the regulation in order to avoid distortions of competition. it is not possible that transport conditions are regularly and conscientiously controlled in only a few member states. i think it is desirable, in principle, that the animals be slaughtered as close as possible to the place where they were raised. i do not think that a general time limit of eight hours is practical, especially since there is no scientific basis for such a requirement. the supply of water in peripheral and less populated areas must not be jeopardised. this could lead to drivers of livestock transport vehicles driving faster and more recklessly in the future in order to comply with this limit. studies have shown that animals experience the greatest stress during loading and unloading. careful loading and unloading and appropriate handling are essential to the welfare of the animals. specific training and education programmes should qualify for the performance of animal transport operations under the most humane conditions.
in writing. - i rejected the report because it again mixes a lot of sensible and nonsensical things. linguistic minorities are being cut off from rights, abortion is being promoted. the line is missing.
mr president, i second the last remark. it is good to have you here in this job, stavros, it is good that we have you as an eu special representative for human rights. i think that is very good. die menschenrechtspolitik der europäischen union war ja eine zeit lang wirklich in der kritik. die stunde der wahrheit war der arabische frühling. wir haben in den spiegel geschaut, und was wir gesehen haben, das hat uns nicht alles gefallen. wir haben darauf reagiert, mit einer menschenrechtsstrategie, mit einem aktionsplan – das ist gut. mit einem sonderbeauftragten für menschenrechte – auch das ist gut. wir unterstützen die zivilgesellschaft und nichtregierungsorganisationen – auch das ist gut. wir wollen uns koordinieren und wir wollen an einem strang ziehen – auch das ist gut. aber hier habe ich eine ganz konkrete frage an frau kozakou-marcoullis, mit der bitte um antwort: wir wollen uns koordinieren, wir wollen uns abstimmen, wie machen wir das praktisch? sollten wir uns nicht – sie haben den europäischen demokratiefonds erwähnt – in unserer politik und in unseren instrumenten wirklich darauf verpflichten, dass die demokratieförderung von eihdr und eed eng abgestimmt wird, dass miteinander geredet wird, um doppelungen zu vermeiden? ich bin sicher, sie werden mir da zustimmen. und sie haben auch diskriminierungen auf der basis von kastenzugehörigkeit erwähnt. wir werden morgen hierzu eine dringlichkeitsentschließung haben. würden sie mir auch zustimmen, dass die europäische union in ihrer politik und ihren instrumenten kastenbasierte diskriminierung aufgreifen und bekämpfen sollte? herzlichen dank für antworten auf diese beiden fragen.
mr president, of course, i also welcome the presence of the human rights special representative, mr lambrididis. however, i regret very much that the high representative baroness ashton is not present in person. it is a very rare occasion that we have a plenary where we have two substantial human rights reports to discuss and to decide on. the annual report is a comprehensive document and perfectly summarises the european parliament’s view on human rights developments around the globe. it underlines what is also clearly stipulated in the human rights review and in article 21 of the lisbon treaty: human rights should be the silver thread running through all our external relations – in view of yesterday’s adoption of the free trade agreement with colombia and peru, i must add, including trade,the treaties oblige us to make human rights a priority of our trade policy. a priority, not a mere appendix to the goal of opening markets to european companies. in practice, however, we are totally inconsistent and ignorant in our approach. we can, of course, continue to leave human rights concerns to the political level and exclude them from our trade policies. we can continue to discuss the human rights situation at the end of our business meetings, or issue a few press statements from time to time. we can continue to attach weak and ineffective roadmaps to trade agreements; we can continue to conduct yearly human rights dialogues, which in many cases have long since turned into an exchange of monologues. we can continue business as usual; if we are lucky we might even satisfy the media and public opinion. we will not change much for the people in the relevant countries, however, and in my eyes this is the main objective of our policies and i hope we see the nobel peace prize as a challenge to become more principled in our human rights approach.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you colleagues for these comprehensive reports. human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, respect for human rights this applies to the eu within the eu, according to article 2 of the lisbon treaty. and these values must also be conditions for agreements with third countries. greater cooperation must lead to an improvement in the human rights situation and the building of democracy. we must not measure with two different standards, but we must also be careful about our credibility. the basic prerequisites for an active civil society and a political-democratic development process are education, employment and an adequate supply of preferably locally produced food. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. it is crucial to strengthen local food and income security. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i condemn all forms of religious discrimination. freedom of religion must be applied to all faiths as a universal human right. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their comprehensive coverage of this subject. i am not going to go into the details of the vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to say that the dashboard has been sloppy for a long time. now all the time the same colleagues have been shown as the next speakers, and only the current ones have always come to the top. the same ones were always at the bottom, even though they were not the next speakers. and again at noon today, when the vote was taken, it was shown that there was a vote, but there was no vote. then it said: 'the vote is now over, it was still on.' this was the case at the last plenary session. my assistants have already complained to me. i'm asking you to make sure that these billboards and this display system are fixed here in the house. it's been a mess for a long time.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are of course also supporting the report by mr swoboda, which is much broader than what he was able to present in his brief speech here. four years ago we started negotiations on a new cooperation agreement between the eu and russia. three years ago, russia expressed its desire for a partnership for modernisation with the eu. two years ago it was agreed, and a year ago the eu and russia started working on the technical conditions for visa-free travel. but to date we have not had a new cooperation agreement that reflects the actual state of cooperation between russia and the eu. we hope that russia's accession to the wto will help to clarify the outstanding issues in the field of trade and investment. modernisation and civil society contacts are the most important aspects of our relationship. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. but a partnership with russia must go beyond political declarations and diplomatic summits and also beyond economic cooperation and financial investment. it must be our common concern to strengthen civil society relations between the eu and russia. and for this it is essential to continue - and i mean to work more strictly than before - towards the goal of visa-free travel for citizens of both sides. i expect the eu and its member states in particular to accelerate this objective and for both sides to work even more diligently than before to meet the agreed conditions. however, if russia at the same time tries to impede the established cooperation between european and russian civil society organisations through legislation, this calls into question the real interests of the russian government and, as such, it must be allowed to be measured against such legislative measures.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have been talking for years about russia being an indispensable partner of the eu, but there is a huge gap between the aspirations and the reality of a strategic partnership. this should be addressed in all clarity and honesty at the forthcoming eu-russia summit. a strategic partnership has not yet emerged between a state-owned raw material supplier and western exports of technology and consumer goods. this relationship is more likely to describe a mutual dependence and the risk of market dominance and extortion. the modernisation promised by medvedev has not gone far enough, except for the abolition of daylight saving time. russia's clocks are going backwards, instead of modernisation we are seeing restoration. the russian leadership is apparently as obsessed with democracy and the rule of law as it is with noroviruses. nineteen years ago today, the russian constitution was adopted, and today, president putin lamented the moral decline of the country, but it is from the top down. as if speaking for himself, putin lacks compassion and empathy above all. putin has a lot of ambitions for the presidency of the g20. at the beginning of his global plans, he should at least tackle the main problems in his own country, such as corruption and the arbitrariness of the authorities. this includes the magnitsky case. the russian side wants visa-free travel without any human rights implications. we must not get involved in this, but we should facilitate visa requirements and finally impose an entry ban on all those who have been convicted in the magnitsky case. one more word about pussy riot: i would ask you to vote tomorrow on our amendment calling for the release of the two women. the fact that such camps still exist after the gulag archipelago is a scandal. the democratization is certainly a matter for the russians themselves. the authoritarian russian state can smear committed citizens and organizations as foreign agents, but it cannot prevent our sympathy from being extended to those who, under threat and harassment, stand up for a democratic russia. (applause from the centre) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i cannot tell you exactly at the moment, but there are high hopes that russia will adhere to certain standards by joining the wto. on the other hand, we may not be used to it directly, but we have at least seen it many times that russia has broken such agreements. for example, they signed the energy charter and then resigned. there is great concern in russia itself that wto accession will create competition at home. that's what we mean by competition, but in russia, you have a different idea of competition. you can see that putin is now called "gas putin" - the oligopoly.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. i want to be very clear: this report is not acceptable to us. and the reason is not a different assessment of the senseless and even dangerous aggravation of the social climate in russia by laws and decrees, especially by the kremlin or the united russia duma faction. the report, mr swoboda, is intended to determine parliament's position on the dragging negotiations on the new agreement. a week before the eu-russia summit. it is quite correct that he refers to the need for mutual benefit and for future orientation. however, it does not go beyond these formal designations. no proposal is made on how to resolve the differences in views on the content of the partnership. nor is it proposing that the mutually beneficial should be in the specific areas of energy or sustainable modernisation, as is currently being discussed, but rather sets political preconditions and elevates them to the status of absolutes. the report is also inconsistent in its content. how can we support civil society if we propose visa facilitation but at the same time link it visibly with political junkets that are unacceptable to the other side? my experience is that provocation always leads to a dead end in a bilateral relationship and ultimately harms the interests of both sides.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to mention only two or three points which i consider to be essential. firstly, the partnership with russia is important for all. russia is an important strategic partner, not only for energy and economic reasons, but - you only have to look at the map - in this changed world. and i think we should recognize that common interest. the second is economic development, which is important. and the european union is russia's number one trading partner. russia has exported to the european union a volume of 199 billion euros. so russia must also understand that it is in its interest, not just ours, and respond accordingly. the european union is facing a crisis and it is possible to maintain a dominant world power-like attitude towards the european union. i think that this attitude of the last few months should be somewhat removed. and i think that the agreements to be made in connection with modernisation, with better economic development and the question of visa liberalisation are all of great importance, and we must also make sure that they are also linked to human rights. the development in russia is declining in the areas of human rights, the rights of non-governmental organizations and the european union's relations with these organizations. we must also note that russia is not ready to engage in genuine cooperation at this stage, which means that strategic cooperation must also be integrated into politics in such a way that there is a level playing field. because here we have to note that russia is currently trying to use its raw materials and economic opportunities for political strategic goals. it is also doing this in its neighbourhood, which is unacceptable. the introduction of practical measures of coercion against neighbouring countries into the customs union does not seem to me to be the right way of life for pursuing community policy here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank mr swoboda for having reinforced the human rights dimension in his excellent report. i myself was present when democratic russia broke away from the soviet union in the summer of 1991 and recognized ukraine, a historic step towards freedom and peace. i was present when our then retired president, otto von habsburg, welcomed boris yeltsin as a representative of russian democracy here in strasbourg. but since then, unfortunately, there have been massive setbacks from god, and those setbacks have a name, and that name is putin. the fall was the first and especially the second chechen war, with which putin came to power, and it is a shame that we still keep on dismissing the fact that there is still blood, tears and oppression in chechnya. since then there has been this backward development in the russian rule of law, which is already weakly developed, described by people like mrs estemirowa, who had to pay for it with their lives and whom we all know personally. that is why we cannot remain silent about these things, and i cannot bear to say, and i would like to say this once again as a committed christian, that there are christians who think it is christian for the two young women from pussy riot to spend christmas instead of spending it with their families in a prison camp in siberia. i would therefore like to give my full support to mr schulz's proposal and call on us to see russia as an important strategic partner, but to address human rights issues in a massive and clear way. (applause from the centre)
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, the european union and egypt have always been very close partners, bound together by history, geography and the common objective of a peaceful and stable neighbourhood. we were all very impressed when egyptians from all strands of life took to the streets in january 2011 loudly and clearly requesting their legitimate political and socio-economic rights, and the european union quickly expressed its unequivocal support for the building of a democratic transition. yes, the road has been bumpy and it will continue to be bumpy before egypt has finalised its democratic transition that ensures human rights for all. all new financial assistance in the form of grants pledged by the commission has now to follow new european neighbourhood policy principles, an approach formulated in the aftermath of the arab spring. the new approach is meant to provide additional assistance to those countries that are truly undertaking and consolidating political and democratic reforms, striving for an inclusive growth and for more social justice. we will make sure that these principles are applied and fully implemented in all neighbourhood countries, including of course egypt. we also have to recall that most of the eu programmes are targeting egyptian people and the most vulnerable among them. as an example, we adopted this year support in key areas such as job creation, youth employability and vocational training. support will be channelled in most of these cases through local administration or ngos. it is a very fluid situation in egypt. it is changing by the moment, by the hour. we all agree that egypt is vital for us, for the european union, for the region. mention was made of the regional dimension and the importance of egypt as far as the ceasefire in gaza is concerned, but also the situation in the middle east. we also agree we should be patient because transition takes time. we should make sure that respecting minorities – especially religious communities – and building consensus are key components of egypt’s democracy. the same applies of course to human rights. the constitution has to be the result of the broadest national agreement. this is exactly the message that the european union is conveying to our egyptian counterparts. let us keep working. at the very moment that we are speaking in this debate new proposals for dialogue are being discussed. as ms sargentini has said, it is not about megaphone diplomacy, but being discreet does not mean not being clear and strong in our messages. in order to show in a pragmatic manner that the european union supports egypt’s democratic transition, the eu-egypt task force, as i have mentioned, was organised on 13 and 14 november, putting all our support measures on the table: investments, tourism, mobility exchanges and of course financial support in the form of grants and concessional loans. the recent political turmoil cannot overshadow the success of this task force. through this new contract with egypt the european union is in a unique position to help egypt abide by values and principles, and in the current situation there is need for even more engagement with the european union. let me conclude by repeating that democratic transition is a long process and requires hard work, commitment, stamina, as well as patience. the european union will continue to support the egyptian people in this difficult transition period with determination and persistence for the prevalence of democracy, human rights, the rule of law and good governance.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, honourable members, as you will have seen, on monday the foreign affairs council issued conclusions on the middle east peace process. no-one can have any doubts about the european union’s position on this crucial issue. this is clear both in this week’s council conclusions and in the declaration on behalf of the european union issued on 29 november. the resumption of direct israeli-palestinian negotiations, without delay or preconditions, is what the eu wishes to see now. clearly this will require bold and concrete steps by both parties. but now, more than ever, direct and substantial negotiations are needed to achieve a lasting solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict, ending all claims. clear parameters outlining the basis for negotiations are key elements for a successful outcome. the european union is ready to work with the united states and other international partners, including within the quartet, with the common aim of substantive peace efforts in 2013. the european union will also work with all those who are willing to join in such a quest for peace, stability and prosperity. the arab peace initiative, in particular, provides regional support for a comprehensive israeli-palestinian peace agreement. all parties must avoid acts which undermine confidence and the viability of a two-state solution. since the 1980 venice declaration, the european union has held that settlements are illegal under international law and constitute an obstacle to peace. it should therefore come as no surprise that on monday the european union expressed its deep dismay and strong opposition to israeli plans, announced after the un general assembly resolution of 29 november, to expand settlements in the west bank – including in east jerusalem – and, in particular, plans to develop the so-called e1 area. the e1 plan, if implemented, would seriously undermine the prospects of a negotiated resolution of the conflict by jeopardising the possibility of a contiguous and viable palestinian state and of jerusalem as the future capital of two states. the european union stated that it would closely monitor the situation and its broader implications, and act accordingly. in other words, the european union has never been clearer than it was on monday: implementation of such plans would not only have an impact on the prospect of a palestinian state; it would also have an impact on eu-israel relations. in the same spirit, the eu expressed its commitment to ensure that – in line with international law – all agreements between the state of israel and the european union must unequivocally and explicitly indicate their inapplicability to the territories occupied by israel in 1967. it also reiterated its commitment to ensure continued, full and effective implementation of existing eu legislation and bilateral arrangements applicable to settlement products. the european union also called on israel to avoid any action which would undermine the financial situation of the palestinian authority. contractual obligations – notably under the paris protocol – regarding the full, timely, predictable and transparent transfer of tax and custom revenues have to be respected. finally, the european union called on the palestinian leadership to use constructively the new status of non-member observer state granted to palestine in the united nations and not to undertake steps which would deepen the lack of trust and lead further away from a negotiated solution. just three weeks ago we discussed the latest hostilities between gaza and israel, which ended with a ceasefire later that night. monday was also the first opportunity for the foreign affairs council to take stock of the ceasefire and discuss potential eu support to ensure it is sustainable. the ceasefire has held well so far. it is vital that all parts of the ceasefire agreement continue to be implemented. the european union is committed to facilitating the social and economic development of the gaza strip. equally, the issue of smuggling weapons into the gaza strip must be immediately and effectively addressed. fully recognising israel’s legitimate security needs, the european union reiterates its call for the immediate, sustained and unconditional opening of crossings for the flow of humanitarian aid, commercial goods and persons to and from the gaza strip. we have expressed our readiness to make use of its instruments in support of the parties’ efforts, including the possible reactivation, in the appropriate way, of the eubam rafah mission. the european union has repeatedly reiterated its fundamental commitment to the security of israel, including with regard to vital threats in the region. the european union will never stop opposing those who embrace and promote terrorism and violence. the european union has repeatedly reiterated its call for intra-palestinian reconciliation behind president mahmoud abbas, in line with the principles set out in his speech of 4 may 2011, as an important element of the unity of a future palestinian state and for reaching a two-state solution. such reconciliation would also have a direct impact on the situation in gaza, which is unsustainable as long as it remains politically and economically separated from the west bank. i thank you for your attention and look forward to the resolution that the european parliament will adopt tomorrow.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not we have to say that in the middle east conflict, unfortunately, the hawks are gaining the upper hand again on both sides. we in the european parliament are on the basis of international agreements, i.e. a two-state solution. the solution to the middle east conflict is not in the interests of those directly involved. the european union has a direct interest in the settlement of the middle east conflict. we must not therefore be reactive or limit ourselves to declaratory measures. we must first identify all the obstacles to the peace process. on the palestinian side, this includes the shelling of israel from the gaza strip and the renewed statements by the political leader of hamas, khalid maschal, that he continues to refuse to recognize the state of israel and to deny its right to exist. i am also a friend of the state of israel and its citizens, and i fully support its right to exist and its character as a jewish state. it is increasingly painful to see the israeli government in office giving the impression that it does not care about its international obligations, that it does not contribute anything substantial to the peace process except lip service. the further expansion of settlements is in the way of the peace process. all settlements are illegal, that's our legal and political belief. that is why we call for an immediate, complete and permanent halt to settlement activity. we need to make our position clear. i thank the presidency for its clear words, including on the withholding of customs revenues from the palestinians. we must set benchmarks for what we expect from both sides, including the israeli government, and by when, and what action we take if it does not happen. the israeli government should ask itself why it was the only eu member state to vote against the recognition of palestine as an observer state at the united nations. the eu has certainly not changed in this respect. we can and should take more care to ensure that the institutions in the occupied territories do not benefit from cooperation. a university such as ariel cannot benefit from the privileges of eu-israel research cooperation. these are things that can be taken into account in concrete terms and which, i hope, will be taken into account by israel in due course. (the speaker agrees to answer the question of another member in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
blue-card answer. – with regard to the acaa agreement, i did not consider that an upgrade. that was a continuation of existing things. that was definitely not an upgrade. so i voted in favour. and i agree, this parliament is not the executive. i am calling on the council, i am calling on the commission, i am calling on the member states, to act in line with what i said: set benchmarks, set a timeline, make concrete suggestions or demands, and if nothing happens, then let us react towards either the palestinians or the israelis. i am really unhappy that the current government is not does not see the future of its country in the right perspective. i must say that, and it is a harsh statement. i am aware of that, but i am sadly saying that.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to welcome minister kozakou-marcoullis. the advancement of plans to expand settlements in the west bank, including the e1 zone, is both legally unacceptable and politically offensive, making a future palestinian state unviable. let me also mention another thing that happened yesterday morning. the israeli army attacked the offices of three palestinian organisations: the women’s union, the palestinian ngo network and addameer as well as the umbrella organisation for palestinian ngos. many of them are actually supported by european foundations or organisations. i believe this not only constitutes a threat to the peace in the region but is a really clear breach of international law and will harm the promotion of human rights in both countries. the eu is currently extending its cooperation with israel, as decided at the last eu-israel association council in july 2012, with up to 60 concrete activities. i demand that any implementation of new areas of cooperation be frozen for the time being as a signal to the current israeli government that the eu does not accept israel’s latest breaches of international obligations. furthermore, i ask the high representative to consider withdrawing the head of the delegation to israel and tel aviv to send a strong signal to our israeli counterparts that the eu follows words with actions. the eu needs to be clearer and also to take action on the illegal settlement products and to have proper labelling. this is not against israelis – let me be clear – but is a reaction to the policies of the current government.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the peace in the middle east is of strategic importance for europe, for the world, and indeed for the dialogue of cultures. and peace in the middle east must be a priority of our european policy. israel has the right to live in security, and the federal republic of germany even says that israel's security is part of germany's national interest. i am in full agreement with that. that is why we must condemn in the strongest possible terms the statement by hamas leader khalid maschal that he does not want to recognise israel. this is the one side. but the other side is that palestine has the right to live within secure borders as well. and that is why it is deeply shocking when israel realizes its intention to build 3,000 settlement units. israel would take what does not belong to it. and the reasoning was very strange, it was justified with the idea of punishment, because palestine wanted to be recognized by the un and there it got a great deal of approval as an observer state. so if israel acts as it has announced, it is also an affront to the vast majority of the states in the united nations. if the settlements are built, then the two-state solution would no longer be possible and israel would be heading down a fatal path with such a policy. we, as friends of israel, must tell our friends in israel what we believe to be the truth. friendship is not about talking to someone, but expressing to your friends when you think that your friends are going the wrong way. the international community must not allow the two-state solution to be prevented by the construction of settlements. we must also reject the defamation of president abbas and prime minister fayyad. those who know these two personalities - and i have met president abbas on several occasions - know that they are personalities who want peace, and i thank the foreign ministers for expressly recognising the role of president abbas of the palestinian territories in the declaration. we call for reconciliation between hamas and fatah, which is important for a two-state solution. and we call on israel and palestine to take the path of negotiation. we are committed to the dignity of the people of israel, and we are committed to the dignity of the people of palestine. and the nobel peace prize awarded to the european union two days ago shows that peace is possible. and if there is a will for peace among the responsible figures in the middle east, then peace is possible there too, and we should support it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was provoked by the remarks made by the far left. we are clear that we want a two-state solution on the level of the 1967 borders and that there is a broad understanding that we want to help that there is a secure state of israel and a viable state of palestine, that this has to happen, that negotiations have to happen quickly and that the european union has to be involved. but to demand here that a socialist palestine is the only way, when hamas has been demanding for the last week that israel be wiped off the face of the earth, and not even to take note of this - is this your socialism, that people and nations are being exterminated, and to see this as an example of how states should be built and live together? i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question, and i hope that he will give us a clear answer to this question.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i think the conclusions of the foreign affairs council of last monday are very clear, firm and unequivocal. taken together with the conclusions of may 2012, i think they send a very strong message to all actors in the region regarding the european union position on the resolution of the israeli-palestinian conflict. this is why i am not going to repeat what the eu position is. it is very clear and it is in the conclusions that i have just mentioned. it is in the fundamental interest of the european union to support peace and democracy in the entire region, and a strategic priority is to see an end to this longstanding and tragic conflict, which will continue to undermine peace and security along the eu’s southern borders as long as it remains unresolved. there will be no sustainable peace until the palestinians’ aspirations for statehood and sovereignty and those of israel for security are fulfilled through a comprehensive negotiated peace based on the two-state solution. the european union repeats its call of 29 november to prime minister netanyahu and president abbas to work towards a settlement of the israeli-palestinian conflict with renewed purpose. both have previously stated their willingness to enter into direct negotiations without preconditions. we urge both of them to do so and will work with both of them, with the us (including through the quartet) and with others in the international community in the region to help bring about this lasting solution.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, there are many challenges on ukraine’s road towards political association and economic integration with the european union. we remain firmly engaged in developing relations with ukraine: there is no doubt about that. but we cannot realise the full potential of our relations yet. at the december foreign affairs council two days ago, the council adopted conclusions on ukraine which confirmed a sequenced policy of engagement. high representative and vice-president ashton called ukrainian prime minister azarov yesterday to explain these conclusions. the point she made was about a clear message to ukraine on the elements for the way ahead, on what needs to be done, and on what is at stake. the conclusions set out a number of concrete benchmarks. these will be the basis upon which the european union will assess ukraine’s progress in the three areas already defined as necessary for opening the way for the signature of the association agreement. let me underline that we are not imposing additional hurdles, but at the same time we are not compromising on our values. i mentioned the three areas where we expect progress from ukraine. the first of these was the compliance of the 2012 parliamentary elections with international standards and follow-up actions to remedy any shortcomings. the second was ukraine’s progress in addressing the issue of selective justice and preventing its recurrence. the third was action to implement the reforms defined in the jointly-agreed association agenda. let me say a few words about how the european union sees developments in these three areas. as regards the recent parliamentary elections – elections being the first criterion – the european union notes with concern that they presented a mixed picture and a deterioration in several areas compared to standards previously achieved. looking to the final report by the osce-odihr, it is essential that ukraine takes early action to fully implement its recommendations and to address the shortcomings. the european union has taken good note of the public commitments made by the prime minister of ukraine in the aftermath of the elections. while these commitments were encouraging, we now look forward to seeing real and concrete steps to bring them to fruition. we have already indicated that, for us, the top priorities are a reliable electoral system based on an electoral code and clear rules on balanced media access for electoral competitors. we will also follow closely how the inconclusive results in the five single-mandate electoral constituencies will be addressed. as regards selective justice (the second criterion), the european union’s long-standing concern on this matter – the case of ms tymoshenko and other members of the former government, such as mr lutsenko – has so far not received the kind of answer we need, in other words a strategic approach to systematically tackling the issue. we also regret that the two key opposition leaders were prevented from standing in the parliamentary elections. the recent final judgement of the european court of human rights on the unlawful and arbitrary detention of yuriy lutsenko has also confirmed our concerns. there are other cases pending before the court. we expect the ukrainian authorities to express a clear commitment to the early implementation of all judgments of the european court of human rights, as well as a recommendation by the council of europe related to detention conditions and medical assistance to persons in detention. let me in this context commend the efforts of the european parliament’s monitoring mission to ukraine headed by former presidents cox and kwaśniewski, which we hope will continue. this mission has a vital role to play in addressing the cases i have mentioned and in encouraging ukraine to take further steps to reform the judiciary and to prevent any recurrence of the injustice we have seen. the european union has repeatedly highlighted that the judiciary in ukraine is suffering from a systemic problem which will require a systemic solution in the form of comprehensive judicial reform. we have welcomed the steps already taken, such as the entry into force of the new criminal procedure code, the new legislation on the bar and the establishment of a national preventive mechanism against torture. naturally we look forward to their effective implementation. further steps on judicial reform in close consultation with the council of europe and the venice commission are much needed, including a comprehensive review of the law on the functioning of the prosecutor’s office and of the criminal code. the role of the high council of justice also needs to be reviewed, and serious consideration needs to be given to reform of the police. the european union and ukraine, with the participation of the council of europe, will soon launch an informal dialogue on judicial reform to facilitate ukraine’s progress on these matters. the third criterion is the association agenda. this is an instrument jointly agreed with ukraine in 2009, preparing for and facilitating the entry into force of the association agreement and its deep and comprehensive free trade area. issues such as electoral and judicial reforms are among its commonly-agreed priorities, and it addresses constitutional reform too. this is essential for creating the necessary interinstitutional checks and balances to continue modernisation and deepen democracy. apart from these political reforms, we will also pay particular attention to the business and investment climate and to those areas where sustained efforts are required to enable us to support ukraine through financial assistance. the european union is also ready to assist ukraine through an informal dialogue on the business climate. all these reforms are very important for ukraine. what we want to see in ukraine is an inclusive process, through constructive engagement between government, parliamentary opposition and civil society. let me assure you that the high representative, together with the commission, will monitor progress achieved in the three areas i have mentioned, notably in the framework of the preparations for the upcoming european union-ukraine summit, the 2013 european union-ukraine cooperation council and the november 2013 eastern partnership summit in vilnius. the council, in the conclusions adopted on monday, reaffirmed its commitment to the signing of the association agreement – including the dcfta – as soon as ukraine demonstrates determined action and tangible progress in the three areas i have mentioned, possibly by the time of the eastern partnership summit in vilnius in november 2013. the signature could be accompanied by the opening for provisional application of parts of the agreement. this is a very ambitious, enabling framework for advancing relations between the european union and ukraine, combining concrete steps with a concrete time-perspective for possible signature. i hope this will provide the needed impetus for ukraine to build the necessary momentum for reform. without it, we will not meet our goal. our political dialogue with ukraine will continue at all levels. the modernisation of ukraine can benefit from european union bilateral financial assistance and, potentially, macro-financial assistance as well. we will continue our efforts to facilitate support from the international financial institutions for the modernisation of the ukrainian gas transmission system, in accordance with existing agreements, including the energy community treaty. the action plan on visa liberalisation is another very important instrument in our relations, and we encourage ukraine to increase its efforts towards meeting the first-phase benchmarks. finally, i hope that the european parliament will soon consider the amendments to the visa facilitation agreement which we signed with ukraine in july this year. this will further facilitate the issuance of visas to ukrainian citizens. you could still wonder whether such a sequenced policy of engagement with ukraine would serve our longer-term objectives. i have no doubt in that respect. on the one hand, we are neither compromising on our values nor imposing additional criteria on ukraine. at the same time, we want to confirm with ukraine its strategic choice for political association and economic integration with the european union. therefore the association agreement is not a moving target. this policy allows us to work towards that end, in a sequenced way. ukraine will have our support in order not to deviate from its choice for long-term modernity and highest political and legal standards. the perspective of signature and provisional application of the association agreement should provide an important motivation. to sum up, the ball is clearly in ukraine’s court. if it wants to score by the time of the eastern partnership summit, it needs to play well and keep an eye on the clock. the european union is sincere about the wish to go ahead, but there will be hardly any signatures if progress on the benchmarks is insufficient.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. i believe that the whole of the eastern neighbourhood policy is in a dangerous phase of development, particularly as regards developments in some member states. we had hoped that the elections in ukraine would be a signal that we could deepen our relations after free elections. unfortunately, this has not happened because of election fraud, the imprisonment of opposition politicians, media manipulation and one-sidedness, and other reasons. on the other hand, it is clear that it is in the interests of europe and the ukrainian people that we improve our relations. the fact that these relations must be strengthened is in the economic, social, political and strategic interest. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i therefore recommend supporting the decision taken by the foreign ministers to make november 2013 a focal point for preparing for the signing of the association agreement. until then, certain things have to be regulated, things related to the rule of law, things related to the positions of the prosecutor general, things related to changes in electoral law, things related to the mayoral and council elections in kiev being held on schedule, under improved electoral conditions, and much more. i think that's a good reason to work together to achieve this. it is also necessary that those arrested for political reasons be released and rehabilitated, and that the decisions of the european court of human rights be fully applied. there are a number of other points that could be listed, and i hope that we will be able to push these things forward so that the association agreement can actually be signed in november 2013.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i want to start with something positive. i was an election observer in ukraine, and i was very worried about the elections, because i thought that the frustration of many citizens in ukraine with what had happened in the last few years would lead to a dramatic decline in voter turnout. the opposite has happened, with turnout again approaching 60%. and at this point, i think we must also make a commitment to the many citizens of this great country in our neighbourhood, who have actually been the guarantors in every election that ukraine is on a democratic path. the negative points were raised by all the previous speakers, and in particular by commissioner füle. it has confirmed what the international observation commissions have observed in retrospect. i do not want to repeat this here, but i want to touch on a point made by cox and kwasniewski, who said in their report that they presented to us that there is a major fundamental problem in ukraine, that is the problem that the law is always there where the power is, that the state, those who have the power, put the law. and that is what is currently leading to the political injustice against tymoshenko, lutsenko and others. that has to change! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i've been in favor of a good visa deal for a long time. i am in favour of the association agreement, but i must now once again appeal to all the politicians whom i met in ukraine and who are now back in government: remove this obstacle so that we can do more for the citizens, especially in the crisis which is now hitting ukraine so hard!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is important that we continue to actively monitor developments in ukraine's internal affairs, because we have a very wide bilateral agenda. the quality of the electoral process was worse than last time, as all serious observers have noted, including the commissioner, mrs ashton and the eu foreign ministers. it didn't have to be 21 years after the founding of the state, it was meant to be. the opposition leaders do not need to be put in jail either, that was politically desired. it is therefore right that we identify what is unacceptable and that we express clear expectations so that more cooperation is possible in the interests of the people of ukraine. the foreign ministers' benchmarks are correct. they should be met by the eastern partnership summit in november 2013 at the latest, in order to allow for the signing of the association agreement. i do not think that this is an ambitious agenda, commissioner, because it is already on the table. it is only the political will on the ukrainian side that is needed to do what is necessary. i also share mr vigenin's concern that a party like svoboda might now become part of the political calculation. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the decisionmaking process, but that it should be involved in the decisionmaking process. but to complete this request, i shall be submitting an oral amendment tomorrow, which i ask you to support. i would like to add the communist party to this amendment. "freedom" has not yet had the opportunity to rule over men. the communists have been at the helm of ukraine for 70 years, and their successors are not some innocent folkloric cultural group. if they could, they would re-establish their one-party rule, and therefore such forces should not gain influence over the formation of government. i hope you will agree with me tomorrow.
the question of the blue card procedure. you have clearly answered mr gahler's question. can you explain to me the difference between radical left-wing anti-democratic behaviour and radical right-wing anti-democratic behaviour and why you make a distinction here?
i have to say, madam president, the albanians are probably one of the oldest peoples in europe. when the balkans were reorganised at the berlin congress in 1878, they were simply ignored, and they were the only balkan people who had no rights and no statehood. this happened in 1912, with arbitrary border demarcation in the interests of the great powers and with a massacre in kosovo, which the moravian social democrat leo freundlich described in a book that is still very impressive today. it was an incredible genocide that was committed there by the royal serbian troops, and then also investigated by the carnegie foundation. i would therefore like to make one thing quite clear: the fact that speeches have been made on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of this event, which mention the historical facts, is normal, even if they were perhaps not very clever. but we also say to our albanian friends: in today's europe, borders are immutable. we do not want to see borders changed, we want guaranteed borders and we want to see these borders abolished. but we must also do our part. the passport thing is not very smart, of course. but if we continue to deny the kosovars visa-free access to europe, if we continue to deny the albanians in the preševo valley in serbia the basic rights of a minority, then we need not be surprised if events turn out negatively. every people can only be oppressed to a certain extent. therefore, criticism of the albanians - yes, but also of everyone else. serbia has a constitutional claim to kosovo, but it has candidate status, and others are criticized for a single speech. we need a european perspective for albania, no border changes and minority protection with equal status for all.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am absolutely in favour of albania's accession to the eu and also of the candidate status it should be granted as soon as possible, and i would like to ask mr toussas whether the albanians themselves cannot decide whether they want to join the eu or whether that is the decision of the greek communists?
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. for years we have seen a ruthless austerity policy on the backs of the people. this is now creating a significant recessionary risk not only in the countries concerned but also in other european member states. we are sliding into a recession, partly because of the fact that it has obviously been ignored that in economic terms wages and social income are just purchasing power, which safeguards and creates jobs and generates tax revenues. this is the most important economic factor in our member states. now there seems to be a growing suspicion that growth alone cannot fix things, but that austerity must be curbed. growth is more than a nice bubble that is promised, it requires certain programmes. but it seems that the context has not been learned. in the commission's last work programme for 2013, i read the beautiful sentence: 'europe has strengths that can give it a competitive edge thanks to a social market economy adapted to the needs of the times and can help it to take the lead in the new industrial revolution.' ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this means nothing more than further social cuts for better conditions of capital utilization, higher profit rates and better conditions of international competition, and hence further redistribution at the same pace and in the same direction, namely from the bottom up. but europe needs a plan for the future which takes people with it, which creates good jobs, jobs which enable people to live independently and without poverty. this is important for people's future and life chances. this includes a move from a competitive europe to a solidarity europe, a constant balancing of trade surpluses and deficits, including through an offensive wage policy. this includes a fair tax policy which also involves the rich in europe in dealing with the burden and opens up new prospects for europe, and this includes an offensive european industrial policy which creates good jobs, for example through climate protection and energy transition and particularly in public services. the german trade union confederation has recently put forward a very well-calculated marshall plan, which i would like the commission to read and which i would also like this parliament to read. putting ourselves at the forefront of the industrial revolution is only worthwhile if it gives people a better future, not if it fills the pockets of a few. we must take the initiative in this parliament.
a writer. mr president, commissioner reding, i would like to thank you for your reply. i agree with my colleague malcolm harbour that we have a huge opportunity if we develop the digital single market further, because it gives small and medium-sized enterprises the opportunity to create jobs. we must also, of course, be careful to cut back on the extra bureaucracy, because it is the small and mediumsized businesses that bear the brunt of the burden. we need a european growth pact. the european investment bank can make a very good contribution here. this also means that it must have sufficient financial resources at its disposal. and, mr handel, we do not need a class struggle, but we must try to make the european labour market more flexible. we have a great opportunity. we have 50% youth unemployment in spain, 30% in italy and 20% in france. and we in germany are in desperate need of workers. if we succeed in matching supply and demand, we have a great chance of creating new jobs, of maintaining others and of reducing unemployment within the european area. this is more important than class slogans, we must work on this and the trade unions can make an excellent contribution! we need investment in infrastructure projects. energy, transport and telecommunications are very important here, and this too with private participation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european growth pact will have a chance if we eliminate all the negative things in the single market. we are always fighting, especially in the committee on the internal market, to develop the internal market further, because it offers enormous opportunities to generate new growth and, most importantly, to create new jobs for the people of europe. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not mr creutzmann, i am not quite clear what you meant by 'class struggle' in relation to me. if you think that the class struggle is that private wealth in europe is constantly growing while wages and social income of the working people are constantly falling, then you may have understood what i meant.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i meant, mr handel, that there is no point in bringing up these stupid things. the economy creates growth and jobs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we have 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises, we have about 23 million unemployed in europe. if we could get every sme to create a job, we would have solved our problem. i know it is not that simple, and that is why i say, and i say again and again in the european parliament, that if more member states had the co-determination we have in germany, there would not be these or those problems. that is what i mean by cooperative cooperation, not the slogans of redistribution from the bottom up. that sounds good, but it doesn't solve anything.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission has put forward a comprehensive strategy for growth in europe. remember, it is the europe 2020 strategy. we have also put a large number of initiatives in place to promote growth and jobs, both in the short and in the medium term, while maintaining overall fiscal discipline. the priority must now be given to the implementation of the european growth strategy, and the elements are there. it is time to take forward the measures proposed. i am thinking about the compact for growth and jobs and the single market act no 1 and no 2. those can really unlock the potential of the single market, as well as the priorities of the 2013 annual growth survey. we know that these measures are specific measures, and we know that the real issue of social justice and prosperity can only be resolved by addressing the structural problems in our economies. stabilising the euro area, certainly one of the most important – if not the most urgent – issues now, tackling all the necessary measures to instil confidence in the european economy, because without confidence there will be no investment, and without investment there will be no possibility for growth – and growth is the answer to the current problems of europe. what is important for all of us is to steady the course, to continue to show determination, both in the direction of responsibility and solidarity. continued reform is needed to generate the conditions for sustainable growth and jobs, and that is why the commission, in its annual growth survey for 2013, has stressed the following five priorities. first, differentiated growth-friendly fiscal consolidation; second, restoring normal lending to the economy; third, promoting growth and competitiveness for today and for tomorrow; fourth, tackling unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis; and finally, modernising public administration. more can be done in this last area, for instance, in the fields of public procurement, digitisation of public administration, and improving the quality and independence of judicial systems by making the judicial systems a contribution to confidence and growth. those are priorities which are structural, and it certainly will take time before we fully benefit from their realisation. that is why – given that these are medium- and long-term projects – we also need short-term initiatives to complement these efforts with investment. this is where the european budget comes in, of course, as this european budget is essentially an instrument for investment – investment across europe – and we cannot speak about the need for growth without recognising the critical need for targeted investment. the european budget is at european level the most important instrument for this targeted investment. if we want to deliver growth across europe, we must have a budget that can deliver investment across europe and that creates these conditions for growth. that is why we urgently need an agreement on the multiannual financial framework to make full use of the european levers for growth. furthermore, the 2013 commission work programme takes forward key growth initiatives already on the table and makes new proposals. the commission will continue to work constructively with the european parliament and the council to have these proposals adopted. i believe this is a matter of priority. the commission has also made its point on the so-called fiscal multipliers in stressing the need for an intelligent composition of fiscal consolidation measures. for member states that have lost access to financial markets, there is simply no choice; postponing consolidation for them is not an option. for those member states with greater fiscal room for manoeuvre, the automatic stabiliser can play its role and the stability and growth pact allows for this. regarding current account surpluses, the commission is carrying out a horizontal analysis on the policy implications of large and sustained current account surpluses; results are due in the first half of 2013 and will support the european semester recommendation as appropriate. lastly, i want to refer to the capital increase of the european investment bank. the board of governors of the investment bank is expected to formally approve the eur 100 billion capital increase in the coming weeks, and the eib’s lending programme for the next three years will already reflect the bank’s increased lending capacity. we are certainly an economic union; we certainly have a currency; we certainly have a single market that we want to deepen. however, beyond the economy our goal is a political and social one, and this is where our citizens come in. as the european council meets today to consider the path towards a more genuine economic and monetary union, the commission urges the leaders to listen to the voice of the directly elected parliament, which represents europe’s citizens, so that together we can continue to build a europe of solidity, of solidarity, and of creating jobs.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the debate on growth in europe certainly has much more to do with what mrs reding has just discussed than with what we heard at the beginning of the debate. europe and growth in europe are certainly suffering more from the fact that we are not sufficiently successful in implementing the measures we have already decided on, and are probably suffering less, as vice-president reding has said, from the fact that we have too few regulations and directives. in my view, growth can only come about if we have a regulatory framework across europe that really works against the background of the social market economy. and what we see is that countries like greece and portugal - to return to mrs ferreira - have introduced reforms which are really leading in europe and are making good progress. the oecd recently put countries like portugal and greece at the top of the list of countries implementing reforms. nowhere is european law being implemented as quickly as in countries such as portugal and greece. and so we see that this alone cannot create growth in europe, but it is now a matter of ensuring that the measures that have been introduced as laws are also properly applied in the end. the key words of mrs reding are quite right: implementation and enforcement are crucial, and that is why we need functioning public administrations and better control of the so-called governance of the internal market. because the best rules are useless if they are not applied properly! secondly, i also believe that growth can only come about if people can have confidence in economic development and are sure that the measures we have taken now and which are beginning to take effect throughout europe - ireland has gone back to the capital markets - are leading us in the right direction. that is why i think it is quite adventurous that the political left is now throwing us a bone, saying that we should simply change direction. no, that would be the wrong way! we must now set the course and convince people that the reforms we have initiated are going in the right direction and that, if we implement them, we will end up being more competitive collectively across europe than before. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am not sure that this is the case. i have never denied - and i don't think anyone in germany will - that the single market and cooperation in europe have been and are extremely positive for germany too. that is why we are prepared to show solidarity, and that is why i think that the first step is reform and that further steps must follow. we are working for a united europe, a united europe of solidarity, but we cannot now start to reverse measures which we have already taken. we must keep to our course, we must try together to convince all the people of europe that the path we have chosen is the right one. if we do that, we will also have more solidarity.
mr president, commissioner reding, you are very welcome. as vice-chairman of the committee on social affairs and employment, i am very much interested in growth, because growth is the central issue for us in the committee on social affairs and employment. the most social policy is to provide a job for a person, and that is why we in our committee must always attach importance to the fact that jobs can be created. and it is simply the companies, and of course especially the small and mediumsized enterprises, that provide the jobs in europe. social programmes are necessary and important, but they can only be implemented for a certain period of time. so we really need to focus on that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. but it also means that the laws we already have have to be implemented. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied in the member states. this is holding back these small and mediumsized enterprises. we must therefore make sure that these existing laws are finally implemented or enforced in order to really strengthen the internal market and thus generate growth again. the media sector in particular still has a great potential for creating really good and high-quality jobs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in our voting list we have a roll-call vote for amendment no 14 by our colleagues from the socialist group. the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at the end of the debate. we shall now vote separately on paragraph 93. i do not want it to be said that we voted against the abolition of the death penalty in the roll-call vote and that we are simply doing so now with article 93. i would therefore like to vote by name twice: first on paragraph 93 and then, as requested, also on paragraph 95.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to see amendment no 3 voted on by name, unless there are any objections. you know, the women of pussy riot were also nominated for the sakharov prize, and for all the differences in evaluation, we agreed on at least one point that this punishment for the punk prayer in christ the saviour church was inappropriate and excessive. that is why we should, like the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, call for the immediate release of the two women, because president putin, in his address to the nation yesterday, lamented a lack of mercy and compassion in his country. i think he can put an end to this immediately by passing an amnesty for political prisoners. because it's more than unfair that two young women and mothers of small children are in a russian prison camp. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am sorry, but mr schulz said that it was amendment no 3, but his request is for amendment no 2, and my group supports his request, but it is amendment no 2, and we need a roll-call vote. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to make an oral amendment to amendment no 1. we share the s&d group's concern that nationalist and xenophobic forces pose a threat to the country's democratic and european orientation. but they also go to the other extreme, both in terms of the orientation towards the west and in terms of strengthening democratic structures. some may remember the decades of communist rule. and the successors in ukraine are not a folkloric association programmatically either. moreover calls on all pro-democratic parties not to interact with the communist party accordingly. i hope that now not too many will jump in the breach for the communists in ukraine.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm a longtime human rights activist, you know. i have done so since the days of the iron curtain, and yet i did not vote for the reports by mr donskis, mrs flašíková beňová and mr zdanoka, for the simple reason that the term human rights is being misused for ideological purposes. the fra is redundant, duplicative and ideologically one-sided. what the left of this house has voted for in the human rights report together with the liberals, under the keywords of so-called gay marriage and the question of abortion, has nothing to do with human rights. our standard is the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and it is quite clear that these are subsidiarity issues. those who are for human rights must fight to ensure that this is not misused for ideological purposes. we want a very clear concept of human rights and a consensus in this house on these essential questions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted enthusiastically for the swoboda report, firstly because mr swoboda has put a very strong emphasis on human rights, more than other socialist rapporteurs before him; secondly because the report is a good one. and secondly, i am pleased that we have succeeded, together with mr schulz, whom i thank for this, in putting the issue of pussy riot on the agenda of the eu-russia summit. russia is an important partner, but russia has committed itself as a member of the council of europe and as a member of the osce to the highest human rights standards and it is doing the opposite! the european parliament must therefore state clearly and unambiguously - without this having to be a burden on the partnership - that without human rights there can be no effective cooperation between the european union and russia in the long term. and the fact that the house has expressed this today with such a large majority is a step forward in the european parliament's policy on russia!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course i am in favour of a two-state solution as the basis for a lasting peace, but it is now exactly what i warned against in november. the hasty decision of the un general assembly has triggered a process of escalation. in the present situation, it would have been necessary to press for a ceasefire and peace talks first and then take the steps that were taken in new york. because we are in a situation of backsliding, and i must say very clearly that we must support israel. we must criticize the settlement policy, but we must also criticize the fact that israel's right to exist continues to be aggressively questioned. therefore: peace yes, two-state solution yes, but hasty steps no.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the free ukrainian university is located in munich, which was once exiled in czechoslovakia between the first and second world wars. it is a very important cultural institution and we are friends of the ukrainian people. but we are of course very sorry that the ukrainian people are suffering at the moment from a bad regime and a poor development of the rule of law. of course, mrs tymoshenko and her friends from the opposition must be released immediately and of course democracy must be repaired in ukraine. but on the other hand, we are very clear in our view that the ukrainians are a european people, that we must bring ukraine into the closest possible partnership with the european union, and that we cannot leave it to the fate created by soviet colonialism. and that is why this resolution is very good, it is balanced, it sends positive signals to ukraine, but it also clearly says that something is wrong in that country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the early 1970's, as a teenager, i listened to the german broadcasts of radio tirana at night. it was pure communism, and no country was as isolated as albania and suffered as albania. so we have to be happy i have been able to travel the country a lot now what a great development it has taken. of course there are enormous problems, but we must do everything we can to support albania on its successful and arduous path towards european integration. to deprive him now of the prospect of european integration, as some of my colleagues, unfortunately also from germany and unfortunately also from my own group, want to do, would be catastrophic. the albanians are an ancient european people. they have had the misfortune to be oppressed like no other people, but they deserve every chance to be included in european integration step by step, up to full membership.
in writing. the european steel industry is an important pillar of the european economy. there are still a number of world-leading steel companies in europe. these companies have so far been able to withstand global competitive pressure, but are currently under considerable pressure, mainly due to excessive production costs in europe. the eu must ensure that these companies can continue to produce in europe.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the situation in the democratic republic of congo.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not north kivu and the congo as a whole, with its paradisiacal landscape, is one of the most fascinating regions on earth. but instead of being a kind of paradise on earth, it's almost hell on earth. the congo could be one of the richest countries in africa, or even the world. it could supply all of africa with its water supply. it could be a center of food production. he has the most valuable raw materials. it could be the seat of industries. but it is a victim of a brutal and cruel history of colonialism, post-colonialism, corporate plunder, war and civil war, corrupt and incompetent administration. and that is why we must do everything we can to bring peace to this central region of africa, and that can only be achieved through the european union's closest cooperation with the african union and the united nations. the many duplications, the signing of treaties such as the great lakes convention, which are not implemented, is a disaster for the region and therefore requires a sustained effort.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the european parliament, we welcome the adoption by your assembly of an emergency european parliament resolution on the democratic republic of the congo, in particular on the situation in eastern congo. this situation has been of great concern to the european union for several months. it resulted in the adoption of several european union declarations and conclusions endorsed by two of the last foreign affairs councils. we share the concerns expressed in the emergency resolution, including the humanitarian situation, human rights violations, including sexual violence, the need to end the activities of armed groups, the need to fully restore the rule of law and governance in the east of the country, including security sector reform and the fight against illegal exploitation of natural resources. in this context, the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the democratic republic of the congo have always been a principle on which the european union cannot accept any compromise. we also condemned in no uncertain terms the activities of armed groups in the democratic republic of congo, in particular the m23. the european union has therefore stressed the unacceptability of any external aid to this movement. we also called for the fight against impunity to be stepped up in respect of all those who engage in criminal activities. however, we also believe that everyone must make constructive efforts to find a lasting solution to the crisis. this requires the establishment of a political consensus among the people of kivu, who are the first victims of the crisis, but also between the democratic republic of the congo and its neighbours, in order to re-establish a positive regional dynamic, based on mutual respect, with the aim of guaranteeing security, peace and development in the great lakes. in this connection, we welcome the dialogue which has just begun between the various parties to the conflict, as well as the contacts which have taken place between the president of the democratic republic of the congo, the president of rwanda and the president of uganda, in the framework of the international conference on the great lakes region. the european union is also ready to make its political contribution to initiatives aimed at finding a lasting solution to the crisis. in view of the complexity of the situation, it therefore calls for close cooperation and complementarity between the various external partners in the region, in particular the international conference on the great lakes region, the southern african development community, the african union and the united nations, which have an important and multifaceted role to play, in particular through the united nations mission in the democratic republic of the congo. in this context, the european union has also expressed, on several occasions, a favourable opinion on the appointment of a un special envoy to strengthen the international response with a view to a lasting settlement of the crisis. i would also like to inform you that the european union is also supporting many civil society organisations which are active on a daily basis in the field of human rights and which encourage dialogue between these activists and governments. over 30 projects are currently funded by the european union under the various thematic lines, amounting to over eur 20 million. i would also like to inform you that commissioner piebalgs is about to launch a specific initiative on the issue of gender-based violence. the commission will thus support the revalorisation of the role of women at national level. a budget of eur 20 million will soon be available for this purpose and an appeal will be made to other partners, in particular the member states, to join this action which is therefore likely to be extended.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on caste discrimination in india.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. the dalits, also called untouchables or uncaste, make up about a quarter of india's population. that's 250 million people. the term dalit means trampled, broken or oppressed an apt description of the social, religious, economic and political exclusion of dalits in india. india has enacted laws and made efforts at all political levels to eradicate caste discrimination, but unfortunately still with little success. the contempt for dalits is deeply rooted in indian society. even the most serious human rights violations against them are rarely punished. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. there, about 1,000 members of a higher caste set fire to at least 268 houses in dalit settlements - a planned attack without any intervention by the local police. we therefore urge the indian government and the administrations from the local to the highest state level to protect, defend and, where necessary, pass further legislation for the rights of dalits. unfortunately, many dalits have also adopted the equation of their caste with a kind of inferiority in their self-image. many endure the humiliations and humiliations as a kind of destiny, but not all. the resistance and the struggle against this disenfranchisement by the dalits themselves is growing. we are in solidarity with them and i very much hope that the eu will also give targeted support to these activists in its actions. because if you, as a victim, have the strength and courage to stand up to those who profit from this abhorrent form of modern slavery, you need all the support you can think of.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the issue of dalits is the last issue we will be addressing this year, but it is not a marginal issue. as mrs lochbihler said, the number of dalits is half the population of the european union, a huge mass of people suffering in an unimaginable way. when i was a child, when i was a teenager, india was the epitome of poverty. today, india is being used to portray itself as a potential technological superpower that is eluding us europeans. neither is true. india is a technological superpower, but it has unimaginable dark sides: the dalits, abject poverty, the abortion of female embryos, the systematic killing of girls after birth, which has just been brought up again by markus lanz in germany. these are all issues that we need to address in our partnership. and i have to say that the fate of the dalits says a lot about the fate of india, and we have to fight these dark sides vigorously.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is aware of the difficulties faced by members of certain communities in india who are classified as scheduled castes or scheduled castes, also known as dalits. despite the equality of all citizens enshrined in the indian constitution, the indian government has since independence implemented a positive discrimination regime that provides for quotas for these castes to ensure their political representation: 84 seats reserved for the lower house of parliament, the lok sabha, and quotas of 15% for access to higher education and public service jobs. positive discrimination, despite its undeniable positive effects, has also had perverse effects, contributing to a certain strengthening of caste identity, and sometimes generating conflict within the caste groups themselves with claims for sub-quotas. in the context of recent developments, important measures such as the 1989 law to prevent abuse of members of these castes, or the 1993 law prohibiting the use of manual latrine cleaning, deserve mention, but unfortunately their implementation is not always satisfactory. in the indian democratic landscape, some political parties in the coalitions in the federal government or in the ruling states in the less developed states are the spokespersons for the members of these castes and ensure their advancement. the issue of discrimination is also one of the issues raised in the human rights dialogues that the european union regularly holds with its indian counterparts on the ground. such a dialogue is planned for early next year. many projects implemented by non-governmental organisations, co-financed by the european union, and the bilateral aid programme in india have as their direct objective the improvement of the conditions of the most disadvantaged populations. particular emphasis is placed on access to health and social protection services, with some €776 000, and on access to justice, with projects worth €330,000, and on poverty reduction and social inclusion, with projects worth €463,000. the issue of caste discrimination is a complex issue, as some of you have mentioned, and it is firmly rooted in indian culture. since independence, however, india has made considerable progress in advancing the disadvantaged, although many shadow areas remain. the european union, as i have said, supports the efforts of the government, which is already implementing large-scale resources and programmes in this area. i would also like to point out in this connection that - as you have indicated elsewhere in the outcome document - stopping the negotiations on the free trade agreement, as proposed in the resolution, would not directly improve the situation of these castes in india. but the agreement, on the other hand, could contribute to india's economic development, if it is negotiated intelligently, as we hope to do, and thereby improve the situation of the less-favoured communities.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is a recent development, so i would like to table an oral amendment on behalf of my greens/efa group to gue amendment 1 and would add the following after paragraph 7: the union cabinet's approval in september 2012 of the child & adolescent labour (prohibition) act, banning employment of children below 14 years across all sectors and below 18 years for hazardous sectors; calls on the government of india to take effective implementing measures in order to rapidly reduce what is still one of the highest number of working children in the world and to introduce legislation for a full ban on child labour in accordance with the international labour organisation guidelines.
