president-in-office of the council. − mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european commission, distinguished leaders of the political groups, members of the european parliament and the european commission, i am honoured to stand before you today to present the priorities of the danish presidency. one of the greatest europeans of our age, the late czech president václav havel, said: ‘for twenty years now, europe has no longer been severed in half. i firmly believe that it will never again allow itself to be divided but, on the contrary, will provide scope and initiative for ever-deeper solidarity and cooperation’. havel was europe at its best: a champion of liberty and creativity; a guardian of rule of law and democracy; a driver of progress and integration; a helping hand to support the weak and vulnerable. at this critical time in our history, it is our shared responsibility to fulfil havel’s belief in europe. we must do our part to fulfil, and to keep on advancing, europe’s potential for peace, opportunity, freedom and prosperity. that is the challenge facing europe as denmark takes over the presidency of the council. i have been looking forward to speaking to you today as prime minister of denmark but also as a former member of this great, unique parliament. (applause) every day, in the political engine room of this house, decisions are taken that form the building blocks of tomorrow’s europe. as in any parliament, there are lines of division and heated debates – as there should be. but what makes this assembly special is the commitment to europe and its citizens that runs through the veins of the majority of its members. you are a parliament of europe and for europe. it has been truly fulfilling for me to be part of the crucial work that you do here. i was honoured to serve in improving europeans’ right of movement, in the committee on employment and social affairs, and in furthering european integration as part of the european convention that led to the lisbon treaty. and it was a particular pleasure in that context – and a privilege – to be active in achieving the changes which have significantly and rightly enhanced the legislative powers of this house. over the coming six months, i ask for your support, your cooperation and your partnership. this will be crucial if we are to achieve real progress on the heavy agenda in front of us all. i belong to a generation that was young in the eighties. for many it was a time of hardship, with high unemployment and limited job opportunities, especially for the young, who were also disadvantaged by cut-backs in our education systems. we were sometimes described as ‘the no-future generation’. but in europe, we saw a path to a more prosperous and promising future. we saw leaders of vision and vigour, like havel. and, as the years passed, europe delivered the conditions which brought the single market, which helped to breach the berlin wall and promote the reunification of germany, which produced the maastricht treaty and secured european enlargement. out of the gloom and pessimism came an era of growth, progress and optimism. europe inspired the world with a truly unique model of cooperation. this is an achievement which we must be proud of when we recall that, just a few decades ago, europe moved from being a continent of repeated conflict and division to a union of 27 nations based on openness, rule of law and democracy. we, in our union, have created an unparalleled framework for decision-making at the european level – the community method – that enables us to raise standards of freedom, fairness in economies and societies without diminishing the diversity of cultures and communities. and the common values of solidarity, participation and inclusion form the keystone of that construction. for us they are not only noble ideals – they are practical working realities. that is why we have built a europe with a strong social dimension. we aim at both prosperity and solidarity because we know that, in the modern world, they are not merely desirable: they are interdependent. in this century, even more than in the past, justice, care and opportunity are components of efficiency, while efficiency is the vital source of investment in justice, care and opportunity. that mixture is at the core of the european success. (applause) i draw very particular attention to it today not only to honour our past but – more importantly – to give confidence and guidance to our future. no one here needs to be told that europe is in a profound economic crisis that has rocked the very foundation of our cooperation. growth is low. debt is high. businesses are struggling. jobs are being lost. insecurity has become part of everyday life for millions of european families. and, because of the nature of the current afflictions, citizens throughout europe are experiencing, and will experience, cutbacks and reductions. we must confront the economic challenge with decisive action to restore confidence in europe; to create a new foundation for growth and progress; to ensure the long-term viability of the european model. we owe it to all generations throughout europe but in particular we owe it to our youth. what our youth demand of us is only fair: access to the same education and job opportunities that previous generations have enjoyed. a chance to contribute to their societies and to build a secure future. they will work for that – but they can only be sure of achieving it if we encourage and enable them to do so. if we want them to be providers for us in the future, we must be providers for them in the present. that is the contract between generations. we must honour it with determination. and we have to show the same steady resolve in ensuring robust public finances, because robust public finances are the true bulwark against short-sighted speculation. the only sustainable future for our social market economies is to embrace change and increase competitiveness. the essential basis for that is stability that fosters growth, and opportunity that maximises innovation. restraint in spending is not a departure from solidarity – in present conditions, it is a precondition for dependable solidarity. i am certain that a great majority of people understand that, and are prepared to be part of it, if it is fairly applied. people are ready to make sacrifices, but they will not be sacrificed. people will accept austerity with justice, but they will resist austerity that is manifestly unequal and unfair. as leaders of europe, we must work in that knowledge and respond to that reality. europe’s destiny is denmark’s destiny. this has been the leitmotif for denmark’s european engagement for decades. forty years ago, denmark was part of the first enlargement of the community and our new partners trusted us with the presidency the very same year that we became a member. thirty years ago, denmark held the presidency in a period of cold war and economic uncertainty, but also in the first period with an elected european parliament. twenty years ago, we held the presidency at a time when the single market was launched. and 10 years ago, denmark held the presidency when the eu fulfilled its historic obligation and united europe. like now, these were crucial periods in the history of the european union. in the coming six months, we will again work hard to move europe forward. european citizens expect their political leaders to act, and rightly so. we must keep one thing in mind: democratic politics are judged by results, not by intentions. the danish presidency will work tirelessly during the next six months to ensure that the eu continues to produce tangible, useful results: results that benefit all europeans, young and old, students and workers, in the north and in the south. to illustrate that, i want to highlight our key priorities. firstly, the danish presidency will aim at ensuring a responsible european economy. that is the only path out of the crisis. we need to put europe back on track so that we can ensure the prosperity and security of our citizens. this requires discipline and political will from all of us to implement and comply with the new rules of economic governance. we need a modern and responsible budget, and we must bring public deficits under control. secondly, we will work for a more dynamic europe. growth in europe must be restored and sustained. we need to stimulate long-term growth and job creation, not least for our younger generation. modernising and developing the single market will be a key part of this effort. looking outward, we must do more to help our companies exploit trade opportunities with the emerging economies outside europe. thirdly, we will work for a greener europe. the eu has developed an ambitious policy on energy and climate issues. we are a leader on the global stage in this field but, to maintain our position and to encourage others, we need new initiatives in areas such as energy efficiency and renewable energy. think about it: more than 20 million jobs are linked to the environment in one way or another. there is a huge potential here, but we face a real risk that high-tech research and knowledge-intensive jobs will move out of europe to more attractive regions. the danish presidency will work hard to ensure that the centre of green research and green jobs stays in europe in the future. fourthly, we will work for a safe europe. in a globalised world, only a joint european effort will be truly effective. to ensure the safety and freedoms of our citizens we need to work in that area: to combat terrorism and cross-border crime; to manage our borders; to establish a well-functioning european asylum system. beyond our own region, the eu’s voice must be heard – and heard even more clearly – as we promote our common values and protect our interests. the presidency will support and assist the high representative and the european external action service. budget discipline, growth and jobs, green policies, and ensuring the safety of our citizens and the voice of europe in the world: these are our priorities. we need to be bold and ambitious. in the middle of an economic crisis i do not expect the danish presidency to be easy. but i can assure you that the presidency will not be daunted either. we are not built like that. obviously, a presidency cannot fulfil its ambition on its own. we need active cooperation from all stakeholders – the member states, the european institutions and civil society. we need a european union that is united in meeting and overcoming the challenges facing us today. your input and your support in this parliament will be critical in this effort. as i stand here today, as prime minister of denmark, i can assure you of my personal commitment to europe. i am a european at heart and, most of all, i am a european for my children. i know that ultimately their security, opportunity and liberty will depend upon the safety, the life chances and the freedom of their generation everywhere. the union is the best implement for helping to spread and strengthen those conditions in our own continent and throughout the world. the ultimate measure of our union and our solidarity is not where we stand in moments of comfort. it is where we stand in moments of challenge. this is such a time. as i have stressed today, the challenge facing the eu today is basically threefold. firstly, we need to rely on the strong rules and institutions for decision-making that are already firmly established in our union. we are a union based on cooperation, rule of law and democracy. during times of crisis, when tough decisions and compromises need to made, these fundamentals – our community method – are more important than ever. relying on our fundamental rules and procedures is not only in the interest of small member states like denmark. it is what sets our union apart. it is what makes our cooperation so strong and so durable. that is in the interest of all of us. secondly, we must maintain that europe is part of the solution to the current crisis, not the problem. the path out of this crisis goes through more europe, not less europe. in current conditions, to be inward-looking is to be blind to reality. it is up to the leaders of europe to show this to our citizens and to the outside world. it is the practicality of europe that will restore faith in our european project. thirdly, we must bring europe through to the other side of the crisis with our values intact. fiscal restraint is crucial to stabilise our economies and restore confidence. but when the social market economic model has proven so successful for us over the decades, it must continue to be our guiding principle through and beyond the current crisis. there is no doubt that the current crisis has put the european union to the test. the countries of the eurozone have taken on a huge responsibility in securing economic stability in our region. the fiscal compact will play a key role in stabilising the euro. this is also in the clear interest of the european union. however, the crisis should not lead us astray. on the contrary, it is more evident than ever that we share a common destiny. it is of paramount importance that we work together and stand together. if we are to realise václav havel’s vision of cooperation and solidarity, we need to secure a europe at work again. together, we will do that. (applause)
president of the commission. − mr president, prime minister thorning-schmidt, honourable members, i would like to start by thanking you, prime minister, for your opening address, which set out your vision for a responsible, dynamic, green and safe europe. prime minister, when we met in brussels soon after your election in october last year, i told you of my conviction that denmark would make a decisive contribution to our common european project. having listened to you today, and to your inspiring remarks about your sincere commitment to european values and the community method, i am even more convinced of this. honourable members, we are all aware of the harsh economic realities in today’s european union. in october last year the commission presented a five-point road map to stability and growth. we said we needed to work, at the same time, to give a decisive response to the problems in greece; to enhance the euro area’s backstops against the crisis; to strengthen the banking system, namely through recapitalisation; to frontload stability and growth-enhancing policies; and to build more robust and integrated economic governance. let us be clear: without implementation of a credible response to the euro area crisis, our prospects for economic growth will not be realised. the commission will urge the member states to complete what is still pending in this road map – from a lasting solution for greece to implementation of a credible system of firewalls. while we put these instruments in place, our response cannot be only about discipline and sanctions. yes, discipline is needed but we also need convergence. yes, stability is indispensable, but we also need growth. europe needs greater convergence, solidarity and growth. more and more, our partners and international investors are asking the following question: what is europe’s medium-term and long-term prospect for growth? it is clear that we will not overcome this crisis without a credible response to the question of growth. the commission has been saying for years what needs to be done, but – let us be frank – action by the member states has been uneven and in many cases insufficient. if we are serious about overcoming the crisis, we must be serious about adding decisive action on growth to the decisive action already under way on financial and fiscal consolidation. so where is the growth going to come from? since there is reduced fiscal space in most of our member states, it will come mainly from delivering structural reforms, increasing our competitiveness and targeted investment. we must deepen the internal market; invest in priority projects, namely in innovation; get the best possible effect from funds not yet spent; and gain market access in fast-growing economies outside europe. let us look at the real economy and just consider, as an illustration, the following point. we have roughly 23 million people unemployed across europe. we also have around 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises. if we create the right conditions for each sme, on average, to create one job, we could succeed in our fight against unemployment. so the answer for growth lies in our enterprises, including our small and medium-sized companies. the way to reach this goal is by having more flexible and competitive markets, less red tape and better access to finance. these are the problems that our companies, in many of our member states, face today: they do not have access to finance. we have tabled proposals to use the structural funds as guarantees to finance smes, and also proposals for venture capital. i hope there will be swift progress with these proposals. we have also made concrete proposals to tackle youth unemployment – one of the greatest challenges we have today in europe. we have proposed the youth opportunities initiative. i hope that the informal european council on 30 january will agree to move these concrete proposals forward. social justice is also part of the solution. social justice is also a central element of our growth strategy because the sacrifices must be fairly distributed throughout society. our crisis response is not credible without this element of social justice. i believe that social dialogue is crucial in this regard and i will meet with the social partners next monday in brussels. i hope the same approach is followed in all our member states. as i said earlier, growth in europe must come from deepening our single market. we should release its full potential, namely through the adoption of key measures such as the framework for venture capital, updated procurement rules and a better framework for online commerce and e-payments. we must also urgently reach agreement on the european patent. we have been discussing this for decades. i fully expect negotiations on this to be completed early in the danish presidency. i call on the three member states – france, germany and the united kingdom – who are holding things up over a side issue of some offices swiftly to find a compromise. frankly it is not acceptable that such a crucial initiative is blocked over such a trivial disagreement. europe needs to innovate in order to grow, and innovation is severely hampered by the current complex and expensive rules that we have been trying to overcome for decades. it is now time to make history and to score a victory for ambition, for common sense and, above all, for europe’s innovators. many of the measures we need are already on the table in the europe 2020 growth strategy. there will be no resolution to this crisis unless we get serious about implementing them. we have to be consistent, persevering and determined over time. the europe 2020 strategy is not a strategy that can wait until 2020. it needs action now, and central to the strategy is sustainable growth. we share with denmark the priority given to green growth. the commission looks to the danish presidency to conclude negotiations on the energy efficiency directive that we proposed in june last year, and to move forward with the low-carbon energy road map for 2050 that we presented in december. the danish presidency will also oversee the second european semester for economic policy coordination. this will be the first european semester to be implemented within our new system of economic governance. we must build on the experience of the first semester to show that we are serious about the need to reform, and ready to take full account of the deep interdependence of our economies. the commission brought forward the publication of this year’s annual growth survey to allow plenty of time for the european parliament and the council to examine the priorities we have identified before the spring european council. it is critical to ensure that the intelligent fiscal consolidation, growth-boosting measures and structural reforms recommended in the survey are pursued in a determined manner across the entire european union. the governance aspects of the economic agenda are also likely to retain a high profile. we expect to conclude the negotiations on the new ‘fiscal compact’, discussed at the european council last december. i am convinced that the danish presidency will play a constructive role as a bridge between the countries that are inside and those outside the euro area. the commission looks to the danish presidency to uphold not only the principles of unity between all member states but also the legitimate role of the european union institutions in the negotiations on this agreement. you will also be charged with pushing forward the two new proposals on strengthened economic governance for the euro area, proposals the commission put forward in november under article 136 of the treaty. these build on what was already agreed in the ‘six-pack’. the danish presidency will also be leading negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, which will be a key engine for growth and job creation in europe over the coming years. these discussions will not be easy in the current climate, but i believe that the proposals on the table are balanced and at the same time ambitious and realistic. i am confident that you will support the commission’s efforts to simplify the budget and to focus every euro on delivering tangible, concrete results for europe’s citizens. let me close by saying a few words about our ambitions for an open and safe europe. the european union is today a very different place from 10 years ago when denmark last held the presidency. at that time – and i remember well that i participated, as prime minister of my country, in that historic european council in copenhagen – denmark chaired the negotiations that enabled 10 new member states to join the european union. denmark has, in that way, shown its very significant commitment to openness. the commission supports a strengthening of europe’s voice on the global stage and the role of the high representative and the external action service. i also expect europe to play a key role in the rio+20 negotiations, confirming our leadership role on matters of sustainable development. we welcome the presidency’s intention to strengthen the schengen agreement and the common asylum system. in particular i would like to underline here my sincere appreciation of the decision taken by the prime minister and the new danish government’s commitment to full respect for the principle of free movement in the european union. to close, prime minister thorning-schmidt, allow me to state that, in challenging times such as these, i am sure that the european union will benefit from denmark’s progressive and innovative attitude more than ever before. the challenges are great and the programme is extensive but, with the right responsible approach and with the support of the other european institutions, i am sure the danish presidency will achieve its goals. prime minister, i wish you the greatest of success.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. i am not sure that this is the case. let me begin by congratulating the danish presidency and the danish government. congratulations on having just completed its first 100 days in office as the new government of denmark. in the september elections, helle thorning-schmidt and her allies asked the danish people a clear question: should we invest to get out of the crisis, or should we save to get out of the crisis? we are not going to be able to do that. the danish people responded by electing helle thorning-schmidt as prime minister. the question that the danish prime minister asked during the danish election campaign is even more relevant in the eu as a whole. the european union is, as has been said, in the midst of its deepest crisis ever. more than 10% of our fellow citizens in the european union are unemployed, 5 million in spain alone - more than the entire population of denmark - and youth unemployment is a disaster. two thirds of the eu countries have youth unemployment rates above 20%, in lithuania above 30%, in greece above 40% and in spain almost 50%. that is why it is also disappointing to read the programme of the danish presidency. it's almost like it's written by "merkozy". the idea of investing to get out of the crisis is gone, the demands of saving to get out of the crisis are back. but, frankly, does anyone really believe that the present crisis can be overcome by dictating cuts and reductions? the eu has tried in greece. it didn't work! then the eu tried again in greece. still not working! and now they are trying for the third time in greece, and it still will not succeed! the danish presidency's programme bears the fine title 'europe at work', but the policies it is proposing will lead to more unemployment. in the opinion of my group, this is the wrong way to go. let me conclude by saying to the danish presidency: the people of the european countries do not need more eu-dictated cuts. they do not need the euro-pacts or the financial treaties to reduce public services and cut wages. the people of europe need jobs to improve our common welfare. the danish presidency has six months to show us that it is part of the solution and not part of the problem.
for the edf group. i am not sure that this is the case. it's been exciting for the last half hour to witness such a true love story. helle thorning-schmidt is exactly, i can tell you, the prime minister you all yearn for. educated at the academy of bureaucracy in bruges, trained and trained here in the sacred halls of the european parliament and only coming to power on a long string of lies to its voters, completely the same way the whole of the eu was founded. this is a council president you can be proud of, a man you can embrace. and i can promise you, i can promise everyone on the commission, that you too will be crushed by helle thorning-schmidt. you are the very embodiment of people who rule without a popular mandate, without as many as one voter ever having voted for you. at a time when more and more danish voters are regretting and wanting to change their vote on helle thorning-schmidt, you must be a model for this government. a perfect match. whereas in greece and italy you had to put in place puppet governments to get your way, helle thorning-schmidt and the danish government will deliver everything on a silver platter. i'm not objecting. no disagreement between us. only loyalty. what else can you imagine? that is why i have only one warm, but profound, appeal to helle thorning-schmidt: come to brussels, come to strasbourg, spend the next six months, all your time, here in the eu institutions! firstly, because it will prevent your government from ruining the danish situation, but secondly, because the damage from your presence here will be minimal compared to the eu. the eu is already a leaky supertanker. the water has already covered the first, lower decks. the other day we saw that even the esfs, which is supposed to save the whole euro zone, was downgraded by the international rating agencies. and what's the tune from here? yeah, it's more like violin playing, like on the titanic, when the water was pouring in. the european union is a great example of this. you can have anything you want here. your friends rompuy, barroso, schulz are all ready. here you can shape the state you want, but no one outside these walls wants. this is your decision, not the voters. whatever you lied to get in denmark, they're getting it on a silver platter. it's a love story worth following. (the president accepted a blue card question in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the blue card answer. i agree that a tax on transactions would be deeply damaging to the economy of europe, deeply damaging to the workforce, deeply damaging to europe's competitiveness. the danish government has therefore been totally unsuccessful in its policy. some ministers are in favour, others are against, the socialist group in this parliament votes in favour, even the danish members. we do not really know what the danish government thinks on this point, and that is the best thing that can be said about the danish presidency of the council.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i should like to begin by welcoming the danish prime minister to the european parliament. we have looked forward to the danish presidency and we hope that it will go well! we're the ones who want to back that up. although there have been a few speakers in the row who have not been entirely satisfied, i think that most of the house will agree with the danish presidency on the four priorities it has put forward. we have a major and fundamental task in the economic field with the financial pact, the six-pack and, not least, the forthcoming budget. and i don't think denmark should be content with being an office manager for the next six months. it is important for the whole of europe that we have a presidency that wants to do something, a courageous presidency that has the courage to set an agenda that can make a difference - even if it causes disagreement! once the economic agenda is set in motion, i would like to see denmark take a firm stand on energy. there will be disagreement, so it sings, but there must be a solution! in 2011, the eu spent €315 billion buying oil into europe, and there is a lot of money being focused on energy efficiency that can be saved and that can stay in the area. unfortunately, we are now seeing that european companies and citizens are becoming increasingly dependent on mr putin's gas and on middle east oil. if we get a strong directive on energy efficiency, we will increase europe's competitiveness, our innovation and, not least, our ability to act on global markets. last but not least, it will create a lot of jobs for people in blue suits, blue work clothes - we will create the growth we crave in europe. if there is one area that denmark should be able to achieve within the next six months, it is this area. i hope that the presidency will take up this fight, despite the fact that there are some who do not agree. i wish you good luck with the presidency and with producing solid results that ensure green growth and green research in europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i thank prime minister helle thorning-schmidt for a very clear and very ambitious plan for the next presidency. the four main headings - a responsible europe, a dynamic europe, a secure europe and a green europe - set the right course for the eu at this time. i think there are many europeans who feel that the eu is a little far away, who see the eu as something vague that happens in strasbourg and brussels, but which perhaps does not have much significance for their everyday lives. but the reality is different. the truth is something else entirely! the decisions made in these buildings have huge implications for the daily lives of people from amsterdam to athens, from cyprus to copenhagen. when we talk about a responsible and dynamic europe, we are talking about creating growth, creating jobs, but of course we must do so at a time which also requires persistence, which also requires us to tighten our belts. that balance is hard to find. that is something quite different - it is in fact the exact opposite of what mr messerschmidt and mr søndergaard said. messerschmidt speaks of 'the perfect match', 'love affairs' - here, it must be said, the extreme left and the extreme right are united in their criticism of europe and send a message that countries which cannot navigate their own seas, such as greece, should be allowed to navigate their own seas. this is of course impressive, not because they are right, but because it shows how harmful it is if we do not stand together in europe. a green europe is another vision. it is a vision that in a time of crisis we must not neglect the green - on the contrary! by doing something good for the environment and by doing something good for the climate, we can also create jobs, we can also create growth. take for example the energy efficiency directive. we are talking about the fact that if we reduce our co2 emissions in europe by 25% internally - we can do that by being 20% more energy efficient than we are today - we can create 2 million jobs. it is two million europeans who have no jobs who will get jobs! that's making a difference! it is to make the eu present. it's about showing that when we stand together across borders, we can make a positive difference. a safe europe is about making crossborder crime and terrorism a cause for concern, a cause of insecurity. here too, by working together across borders, we can make a difference. overall, it is a visionary, down-to-earth and very ambitious presidency programme. i want to wish you all the best of luck! (the president accepted a blue card question in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – mr president, has it occurred to the honourable member that the european commission does not make policies. it makes proposals. you and i make policies and the president of the european council is also, of course, a part of that process. i think that if we do exactly what the danish presidency proposes, which is to go for growth which is also sustainable from an economic and a social point of view, it will make a positive difference to the lives of ordinary citizens of europe.
mr president, i welcome the prime minister to where it all started for her. allow me to address the prime minister in english, as i intend to compliment her and her government, and the last time i complimented commissioner reding in this plenary, it was translated as criticism. therefore, as the prime minister is not used to me complimenting her, i want to avoid any misunderstandings, because the message is also for this house. i want to compliment the danish government on three things. i want to compliment you on having listened to this house in drawing up your priorities, and on sticking to what is already on the table. this makes for a presidency programme which is ambitious yet pragmatic. it shows that you have clearly understood your role as an honest broker. and finally, you and your ministers have done your homework and have been extremely industrious, with a high number of preliminary talks with parliament. thank you for that. i am sure you will get the support you have asked for today. but, before the prime minister gets carried away by all these compliments, i had better ask a few critical questions. firstly, how will the prime minister navigate the emerging minefield of new intergovernmental agreements and avoid european disunity? secondly, what is the danish position on a ‘tobin tax’, which – according to the commission’s latest figures – could cost around 130 000 jobs? lastly, we are currently discussing family reunification rules and the commission’s green paper. now that parliament’s president, mr schulz, has withdrawn his earlier critique of the 24-year rule, will the prime minister seize this opportunity to start working for an eu-wide 24-year rule? those are my questions. prime minister, i wish you the best of luck in the presidency.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am not sure that the commission is prepared to accept this. thank you very much from the green group for your excellent speech. i would like to begin by saying that i find it refreshing to see a strong and visionary woman at the head of europe, a europe where there are a lot of grey, dusty suits. i think there's a need for a breath of fresh air, and i think you can provide it. the most important thing for me is that the danish presidency is giving high priority to a common european solution to the crisis. it is about focusing hard on creating green growth, sustainable growth and new green jobs. the millions of europeans who are out of work right now need it. my own generation, the young people of europe, are the hardest hit and i am glad that you are raising the question of the generational contract here today. i think the danish presidency could go one step further and ensure that we set a new 2020 target of halving youth unemployment and that we work towards a european youth guarantee guaranteeing jobs and training in this crisis. in conclusion, i would say that it is a crucial realization for all of us that cuts alone will not solve the crisis. there have been cuts on the agenda for a long time, and it has been about cutting each other's hair. now is the time to jump-start our economy, to create new jobs and to ensure that our solutions to the crisis are fair. i have the greatest expectations, after your speech today, that the danish presidency will take up this task.
mr president, i would like to thank you. welcome to the prime minister. the danish presidency faces major challenges for the next six months. the danish presidency is expected to focus on reforming the eu's energy consumption. this is a major challenge, as the needs vary so widely in the member states. i hope that the presidency will support the development of completely new renewable energy initiatives. wind, sun and water are simply not enough. denmark has taken over the presidency during a serious period. the economic crisis has had a profound impact on the people of europe, who are already suffering from unemployment, as we hear from all sides today, especially among the very young. we can change this by strengthening small and mediumsized enterprises, which are facing very difficult conditions at the moment. it is time, as you yourself said, to start growing. i expect the presidency not to waste time on treaty amendments which do not have the support of the people. the crisis should not be used as an excuse for more eu bureaucracy. the time must be spent on concrete results, realism, increased competitiveness and the strengthening of the internal market. other important issues are being raised, as we hear from colleagues. the reforms of the fisheries and agricultural policies are on the table at the moment. in a time of economic deficits and national austerity, the eu could appropriately demand one seat for this parliament and cut back heavily on both agricultural and fisheries subsidies. we know that these two areas do not work as intended in their present form, but they do cost the citizens a great deal of money. we must stop paying for measures which do not achieve the desired effect. i am glad to hear that the presidency will work with determination and realism to restore the confidence of european citizens in their future in our part of the world.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you to our prime minister for a wonderful speech. we can be proud of that. i have one point i'd like to make to the prime minister. this is article 41 of the charter, which deals with good administrative practice. the citizens of europe have been given the right to good administration, and this is indeed the case with the institutions here. that is why it is something to be taken seriously. but if there is no real legislation on good administrative practice, the commission will not make use of it by itself. i know that from many sides. only if there is a push from a presidency which has for a long time put openness and citizen participation at the top of the agenda, only if there is a push from us to translate article 41 into good administration, is there a chance that the commission will take seriously the clear right now enshrined in the charter. i would therefore strongly recommend that this subject be included, because although it may not be as sexy as all the other subjects, it is still very important.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. i am not sure that this is the case. the european council is scheduled to adopt this international treaty, which we are discussing today, on 29 january. and it will work! i'm sure we can get it passed. on the other hand, the treaty will not achieve its objective of ensuring stability around the euro. and it will not succeed in overcoming the crisis in which the european union finds itself. this treaty is damaging to europe. it's the wrong medicine, and it's the wrong method. it is the wrong medicine because, of course, you do not create growth and progress through cuts and savings. it will only lead to more crisis and more unemployment. if you don't believe it when we say it, you can ask standard & poor's, for example. but it is also the wrong approach, because it reinforces integration in the european union without consulting the people. even the european parliament has not been given real influence - not even if we have been allowed to appoint three or four people to participate in the discussions. and we were supposed to be representing the citizens of the european union on paper. so what is the rock-solid result of this method? it's that the distance to the population is growing. if you want to change the architecture of the european union, there is only one democratic way to do it, and that is by calling for a convention where different positions can be broken. we regret to note that the eu leaders have chosen a different path. i would therefore like to state on behalf of my group that the adoption of this treaty will not be supported by us.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as the danish prime minister said in his presidency speech earlier today, the union is built on fundamental values such as openness, the rule of law and democracy. with these values we have united europe and created peace in europe. we have a special duty to protect these values, especially in a time of crisis where they are under particular pressure. the developments in hungary are very worrying at the moment. nationalist forces led by viktor orbán threaten to undermine the foundations of the rule of law and break the rule of the third party. i am therefore very pleased that the commission is now getting right with hungary. the commission's criticism is currently directed at the hungarian government's control of the national bank, the judiciary and the data protection authorities. at a time when we are raising the retirement age in several places in europe, the orbán government is lowering the retirement age for judges - a move that critics see as an attempt to tailor the composition of the constitutional court. we must not ignore the fact that there is discrimination against minorities such as the roma and homosexuals, nor must we forget the attempts of the orbán government to control the press. and what about women's rights? i can assure mr orbán that i will be watching hungarian abortion legislation in the future, based on what i can read in the new constitution. a true democracy includes respect for minorities and room for a critical press and an active opposition. these days many hungarians are demonstrating against the government's actions and do not in any way approve of its policies. the many citizens who are fighting for democracy and the rule of law in hungary deserve our solidarity.
mr. chairman, this is connie hedegaard. many of us always praise you when you are in parliament because you are always at the forefront of the climate fight and always take a very progressive and ambitious line. you did so in durban, but i will allow myself to be critical of the result. i would even go so far as to say that i think durban was a failure. the explanation is as follows: the fact that we could not achieve anything better than a legal obligation to reduce co2 emissions by 2020 is not the same as accepting it! the problem with doing that is that we've actually said to the rest of the world that we accept that there's not going to be any legally binding action that can keep us below 2 degrees by 2020. and everyone in this room, everyone who is following this debate via webstream or otherwise, who is interested in the climate, knows that it will be too late! if we are to keep the temperature rise below 2 degrees - and we must, because if we get to the other side of 2 degrees, then there are a lot of self-reinforcing effects that are going to kick in, then the process is irreversible, and then we can't do anything - then we have to start within 5 years! all the science says it, the international energy agency says it, and it's hard to find people who understand this who don't agree with it. that is why it was a failure, and that is why we have to say that we can no longer rely on solving this problem through the un from the top down. now there's only one way, and that's from the bottom up, and you're gonna have to play a part in that, too.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i would like to thank the president-in-office. occasionally, green organizations hold such media events, presenting blood they have tested - either from some of their employees or from famous people, actors, singers, or sometimes even from children. unfortunately, these tests always show that we all carry chemical residues in our blood. not enough. chemical residues can even be found in the umbilical cord that has been between a child and its mother! many of these residues come from very harmful chemicals, chemicals that are carcinogenic, hormone disrupting, reproductive toxic, bioaccumulative, resistant, toxic - in other words, chemicals that are extremely dangerous. this legislation helps to solve this problem. this legislation will ensure that we get to replace some of the most dangerous chemicals on the market today. and i think you can see that in some of the products that we all have around us in our everyday lives. because biocides are a good thing! there are biocides in detergents, that makes perfect sense. biocides are used to impregnate textiles and furniture, and so on - and quite sensibly. but it is clear that when you have biocides so close to you, when we have chemicals so close to us in our daily lives, it is important that they do not contain substances that are extremely dangerous. it is therefore good that we have now passed legislation which will ensure that we phase out the most dangerous of these substances. there are also a few other really good elements in this legislation: we are strengthening the rules on labelling requirements for products. we're treating nanomaterials in biocides in a different and more thorough way. we have laid down a plan for how we will have legislation later - when the commission comes forward with a proposal - on the regulation of the use of biocides. finally, there are possibilities that a country - despite the fact that we have a common approval procedure - where biocides may be dangerous because of climatic or special national conditions, where they may not be in other countries, can be granted an exception and be allowed to ban the pesticide there. so i would like to thank the commission, thank the council and thank my colleagues, especially christa klaß, the rapporteur.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i should like to express my admiration for the outcome of the summit. it was truly unbelievable! if there are countries with economic problems, they are fined and voila! that should fix the problem! but why couldn't we have figured it out sooner? so simple, so effective! i'm not going to lie. why not apply this method to other problems? for example, a country with too high unemployment can just be fined! or what about a country that has too many poor people? fight poverty with fines! but the heads of state did not want to go that far. millions of people in the eu are poor and unemployed. it can be accepted without fines, but if a country chooses to make massive public investments, for example by borrowing to create green jobs in solar, wind and wave energy and thus create jobs, then the eu's hammer falls! i'm sorry, but isn't that a very one-sided economic policy? i understand that the summit was met by a general strike by the belgian workers. we shall see more and more of this if this policy continues.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, first of all i should like to say that this report suffers from a very serious defect which it was born with. too many members of our committee are hesitant, if not downright reluctant, to criticise their own party members in the home country and have therefore ensured that it has not become as concrete as it should have been in view of the many complaints. it has become too general a report, which perhaps should have been in the environment committee. we should change this quickly. our committee cannot function unless we all rise above party politics. that said, i would like to give mr iturgaiz angulo unreserved praise for his almost perfect cooperation on this report. we've been listening to each other. i think that, despite the unfavourable conditions, it has turned out very well and i would like to thank you for that. however, i have the same two criticisms that others have already made: firstly, the lack of implementation - that is, the lack of seriousness in tackling the problems, the lack of good cooperation with the commission and with other regions and cities that have solutions, and the lack of adequate involvement of citizens. we cannot solve these problems unless we work more closely with the citizens. in too many places - not least in italy - we have seen that the citizens are almost regarded as the enemy when these problems are to be solved. it's been a very bad experience. we have seen something similar to a somewhat less worrying degree in both bulgaria and spain, but italy is actually a bad example in this respect. the second critical point is the question of resources. we are facing not one but two crises. we are in a resource crisis, and the stupidest thing we can do with our scarce resources is, of course, to lead them into the water or put them in a miserable landfill. but the next stupid thing to do is burn it. and now we must see the pyromaniacs come to life! even the finest incinerators should not be allowed to burn our scarce resources! we must work to meet all the requirements of the waste directive, but also have a smart investment in facilities that can recover the resources, so that we get a modern development in our waste strategy. that is what we need most of all!
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. it is clear that it should be entirely voluntary for member states or sports organisations to choose to fly the eu flag or to have it displayed on players' jerseys. the left also welcomes the fact that enforcement of intellectual property rights is emphasised with regard to freedom of expression and the press, which must under no circumstances be restricted.
in writing. - the left voted for article 11 because we believe that it is reasonable for local authorities - like the municipalities in denmark - to collect taxes themselves to finance their expenditure, as this will lead to greater accountability in spending policy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. - i'm not going to lie to you. minister! i support the questions put, but i will not talk about interinstitutional fights and horse mackerel. in the last 20 years, a lot has changed in the fishing industry. today there are far fewer active fishermen, but the fishing industry is helping to create new jobs in other sectors. small fishing communities have good opportunities for tourism and education, as well as the supply of special products to local restaurants. the fishing industry contributes to both the local cultural heritage and the overall development of coastal areas. fisheries must coexist with biodiversity and the marine environment. aquaculture is to be developed, inter alia, in the form of the cultivation of shellfish and algae for bioethanol, cosmetics and medicines. we also need to fish for waste and care for the coastal marine environment. we must therefore clarify how the commission and the council intend to incorporate the added value of the sector in the reform of the common fisheries policy.
in the context of the services directive, economic freedoms and the protection of workers’ rights, commission president barroso stated in this house on 15 september 2009: ‘the interpretation and the implementation of the posted workers directive falls short... that is why i am committed to proposing, as soon as possible, a regulation to resolve the problems that have arisen. this regulation will be codecided by the european parliament and the council.’ it is now 2012. the instrument in question was scheduled for publication before christmas. it was then scheduled for last week and then it was deferred again, and now we do not know what is happening at all with this suggestion. my question is: when will the commission finally deliver, after more than two years of framing its proposals on economic freedoms? and when, commissioner, will you deliver on protecting workers’ rights and securing the right to strike? secondly, there is a rumour that the ‘monti ii’ regulation is not to be codecided, but is to be subject to consent procedure only. how does that correspond to the promise mr barroso gave in 2009?
a very brief follow-up. did i hear you right? this will be on the commission’s agenda in march?
just to follow up on the remarks by the gentleman over there, are we going to be provided with some kind of list and told whether we are on that list?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have voted today against the introduction of stability bonds. it is deeply problematic if one thinks that stability bonds can save europe's economic crisis. reforms are needed to create jobs. the need is for countries not to continue spending more money than they earn. overspending for many years is the cause of the sovereign debt crisis and the market's failing faith that countries can conduct responsible policies so that borrowed money can be repaid. this problem is not solved by stability bonds. the tax revenues of the member states must be spent more wisely on research, innovation and education, and public welfare benefits must be cut. it is no good to think that you can solve all this by simply borrowing more money without investing in the future.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road. therefore, it is positive that the agreement expires at the end of 2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the stability bond. i think we should reject the commission's first offer of so-called stability bonds. they will mean that countries with a sound economy will pay higher interest rates. on the other hand, i agree with the resolution's support for the german wise men's proposal for common bonds, which implies that each country bears its own debt and receives a cash incentive to pursue a disciplined policy. the resolution recommends that the commission should continue to work on this proposal, and i wholeheartedly support that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i also think it is sad that we cannot achieve the most obvious savings and efficiency in parliament's work by stopping the travelling circus to strasbourg and, for example, handing over these buildings to some other european institution. but unfortunately, it's not something we can control. this is a decision that only eu heads of state can make. i agree with mr vaughan that we must make our work more efficient and find ways of saving money, but i would like to stress that savings and efficiency must not be at the expense of the multilingualism of this parliament. it is fine if we can find technical solutions that can both save money and perhaps provide the same or better service in terms of translations, but we must not buy linguistic diversity. i would like to congratulate mr vaughan on the results he has achieved so far in the work of freezing parliament's expenditure. but i also think it is important to stress that all the eu institutions must strive for efficiency. it is also the case with the court of justice, the council, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions. the forthcoming enlargement with croatia may well be an opportunity to see whether the increased costs can be recovered by means of efficiency gains.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i do not want to repeat what has already been said about the scale of the problem. it's big, and it's outrageous! and with the strategy you have presented here, nothing really happens. nothing happens compared to what we've heard before. a lot of nice words, but no action. i'm not as nice as mr. cashman, who tries to sugarcoat it into a compliment. i don't need that. i need some answers right now. we need a real treaty. we need a binding treaty. we need clear rules here. it is no use trying to "talk to the partners" again. it's really something. so far, in all these years, nothing has happened. we have said it before and we say it again: we are in agreement in this parliament and most of the member states are in agreement. that is why it is no use pretending that the problem can be talked away. the treaty is about binding agreements and it is about real exceptions and not about strange arrangements. it's not commercial. this is not about making money - or rather, it should not! it is about people who want to make an effort to give the blind people the same opportunities as the rest of us. as mr cashman said so clearly earlier, it is terrible to imagine how many people have actually been cut off because there are too narrow interests governing this issue. so i hope you'll take us seriously this time.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution. not because i share all the views in the proposal, but because i think it is necessary to send a strong signal to the hungarian government to respect democratic rights. i am therefore very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative.
i have to say, madam president, i have voted against this report. i think it is right that we should thank the rapporteur for the evidence of the rampant integration craze which pervades this whole institution. if you read the report, there is hardly any detail in the member states that one feels the need for the eu to intervene in. there was a time when we had something called the subsidiarity principle - namely, that if it was not an absolute necessity, the eu should stay out of it. if the member states could handle a matter themselves, they should handle a matter themselves. when i read this report, there is nothing left of this principle of proximity: marriage laws, crèches, registered partnerships, childcare hours, the definition of the concept of family, maternity leave and wage formation - all of this is included in this report as something the eu should intervene in. if it wasn't almost laughable, it's almost tearful! we already have regulations on whether balloons can be inflated, whether fish should be named in the native language or in latin, and so on. when will this integration madness end?
i have to say, madam president, i think we can all agree that women are a tremendous asset to our entire society. for example, my party has had a fantastic success for almost 20 years with a woman as its president. the big question, though, is simply: are these really the only characteristics of a person that are essential? if you want to set quotas for women because they are women, why not set quotas for so many other things? what about geographical quotas? i don't think anyone would argue that a candidate from the provinces should be less qualified than a candidate from the cities. or what about age quotas? i am convinced that on many of the lists and in the boards we have around europe there is a clear predominance of older people. is that not unfair discrimination? or what about sex quotas? i guess gays are just as good people as straight people. about 20% of the population of europe is homosexual, so what about making homosexual quotas? it's going to be a tirade of chaos you're moving into. let me therefore state that the reason i voted no today is not because i am against women, not because i am against the elderly or homosexuals, but because i am against quotas and the idea that people can be divided up into quotas. quotas, that's for fish and co2 and stuff, not for flesh and blood people!
in writing. - i have supported the desire for greater equality between men and women in politics in the eu member states by voting today. as regards elections to municipal, regional, national and european parliamentary elections, as well as to inter-party posts, i do not believe that legislative measures or additional control bodies are needed to promote greater equality. we are therefore not in favour of compulsory gender quotas in elections in denmark, since voters in the danish electoral system - unlike in the vast majority of other eu countries - can already vote in person for nominated candidates.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. mr president, thank you to the commissioner and the minister for some good speeches and for your support for the fact that we actually have to do more than we are doing when it comes to diabetes. let me repeat a few figures: 32 million european citizens already have diabetes today, and another 32 million have pre-diabetes. most of them have type 2 diabetes. what's interesting -- and it's been said before -- is that we can actually prevent type 2 diabetes. so i really appreciate your support for us to do more. of course, it's also about addressing the causes of diabetes, including obesity. there is much more research to be done on the causes and also on how to make people live healthier lives. but i also think that the commission can do more than that. we can also ensure that we jointly develop standards for how we collect data on the progress of diabetes and the other types of diseases. in fact, such data collection is necessary to see whether there is actually progress in these areas, where we are now undertaking a lot of policy initiatives. and to the member states: mr wammen, i am glad that the council has promised to take up this matter, but something important that i think can be done in the member states is, for example, to update the national action plans for diabetes. it also helps to focus on what needs to be done nationally for the citizens. i therefore thank you for your commitment and for your willingness to do something for the citizens of europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is fundamentally contrary to the free market to provide public support for specific professions. the fisheries sector should not be dependent on such support. the proposal is a clear improvement on the previous system. it has become easier to redirect funds from the fund to green purposes. i would like to see the fund closed down, but since that is not possible, it is better to spend as much money as possible on accelerating action rather than on direct business support. i hope that in the long term we can get rid of the many aid schemes which unfortunately make up the majority of the eu budget. let us strengthen the free market! it is better for taxpayers and for business.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, but i support the agreement on biodiversity from the nagoya un meeting in october 2010, which declared that all subsidy schemes that threaten fish stocks should be abolished. the economic crisis in the eu is the result of the euro's inherent design flaw and of financial speculation. it is important that this policy be changed. i can, however, support temporary proposals which ensure that the consequences of austerity policies are mitigated in countries which are hit very hard. but only when this does not contribute to overfishing or adversely affect the environment.
mr president, i would like to thank you. two commissioners have stood in this chamber and said that there will be a proposal for new legislation in this area. twice we've been promised it, and it hasn't come. now a million citizens have said they want new legislation, now the majority of this house has said we want new legislation. the commission cannot wait any longer. that's the long and short of it.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education. − mr president, the committee on culture and education warmly supports the conclusions of this report. citizens’ rights are indeed important, not only as rights but as a means to show citizens the value of the eu. for this reason we need a common strategy on how to communicate with citizens. that is why the culture committee adopted an opinion stating that it wants ‘a comprehensive communication strategy’. that strategy is not in place and the commission has done nothing to live up to parliament’s demands. we have repeatedly asked for this strategy and have received nothing substantial. let me remind colleagues that in 2008 all three institutions signed a declaration on communicating europe in partnership. so far, little has happened. if we cannot make this cooperation work we will not reap the full benefit of this initiative and our efforts will be in vain.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i would like to thank mrs vălean and simply say that all the praise i wanted to say has already been said. that is why i shall now concentrate on mrs gurmai's attack. if we of the committee on petitions really want to be the committee of inquiry into the citizens' initiative, it is for the sake of the citizens, it is to give the citizens the opportunity to find out how to use the citizens' initiative. it is very good that we have such a mesopotamian system, which we ourselves think we can use to find our way around; but the citizens cannot! it is therefore a vital help to them that we have the whole service-minded attitude, and that is why we propose that the citizens' committee of this parliament, the committee on petitions, should be the body responsible for the uniform treatment of the citizens' initiative. that is how we know when the hearings can be held and how we can be sure that the commission and, of course, the relevant political committees are involved from the start. of course, the whole process of the citizens' initiative must be taken seriously and not be seen by the citizens as another way in which we would fool them into believing that we were a good system - and then they would not be able to use it. so, thank you for bringing this up. i hope we can get parliament to join us in this.
i have to say, madam president, i have not voted for the report today. it is good that there is progress in the dialogue with turkey. we must have a close relationship with turkey, but we must also recognize that turkey lacks european values. we are seeing the crackdown on minorities, including religious minorities, the imprisonment of trade unionists, and there are massive problems with freedom of expression. the relationship with cyprus also speaks for itself. i think it would be more honest if the eu told them that we want very close cooperation with the country, but as members of the eu, it will not happen. it's like being engaged to a woman for many, many years and then not offering to marry her. it was better to say things straight away.
i have to say, madam president, i voted against the bode report on a corporate governance framework for european companies. i could live with bodu's original version, which emphasizes the value of voluntary objectives, but i am strongly against the strong-arm legislation that forces companies to introduce women's quotas on their boards. we have seen norway do this and it turns out that they are starting to deregister public limited companies to avoid a 40% limit. so it must be the shareholders who decide who sits on their boards, because it's their money. it is as if we politicians were sitting in a cheese-clock and wanted to do things to the companies without knowing what each company would do. i think it's a little boring that a case ends up with the vote we had today. i think it is good that more women are on the boards, for example, we have a good advantage in some of the boards i sit on. but i don't want women to be the ones getting into the quota. it is bad, and it is bad for the shareholders, and in norway we have already seen that it causes problems.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have an appeal to the president concerning the human rights activist al-khawaja, who has been on hunger strike for 69 days today in a prison in bahrain. it is in protest against the royal dictatorship and the imprisonment and torture to which he is subjected. what is his crime? it is to fight for democracy and human rights. not with violence, but with words and peaceful demonstrations. after 69 days of hunger strike, al-khawaja is dying. this can't happen. his fight must be our fight! i would therefore urge the president to ensure that an urgent appeal is sent from here to the king of bahrain. al-khawaja must be released immediately. every day counts. tomorrow may be too late.
mr president, i would like to thank you. if we are to have a well-functioning internal market with the free movement of goods, services, capital and labour, we must also have a well-functioning social security market. it is therefore good that the rules are constantly being updated and coordinated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. with these new rules, you do not have to refuse a job because you are not fully aware of your social rights. the rules are also changing for frontier workers, so that you are covered by social security where you have your main job, but with the possibility that if you have a 25% job in the country where you live, you can choose to be covered there. i also think it is good that the rules for air crew have been clarified so that it is not possible to shop around and choose the country where social security is the cheapest. the only thing we really need now are clearer rules on posted workers, and we shall have them later this year.
you will definitely have that support, i think. commissioner andor, sometimes the devil is in the detail, so please allow me to return to something very important that was raised by mrs regner and mrs schroedter that i do not think you answered sufficiently. in article 9 of the new enforcement directive – not in the directive as a whole but in article 9 – there is a list of control measures that national authorities can use. there is also a small word preceding that list: it states that they can only use these control measures. this is a maximum list, an exhaustive list and a clear limitation. so my question is, why do you want to make it an exhaustive list, and why do you not change the logic of the ecb instead of aligning with it when it comes to control measures?
well i think that we disagree on that interpretation, but we can probably discuss that in the future in a follow-up. another ambiguity in this proposal arises in connection with the principle of joint and several liability, a principle that the greens very much support. one question is: how do you foresee the implementation of that in countries that have collective agreements and where wages are not set by law?
in writing. - we, the danish social democrats in the european parliament, have voted in favour of the texeira report on the role of cohesion policy in relation to the eu's outermost regions in the context of the eu 2020. the report sets out a range of good practices to achieve the smart, sustainable and inclusive growth of the eu's outermost regions outlined in the eu 2020 strategy. however, we do not support paragraph 10, which refers to the need to adapt the eu's tax policies in order to promote the competitiveness of the economies of the outermost regions. it is vaguely worded and can be interpreted as meaning that the eu can legislate on the tax policies of countries. however, the treaty sets clear limits to the eu's competence in the field of taxation, and we believe that this must be respected. the socialist group also does not support paragraph 14, which proposes that special arrangements for the outermost regions be maintained in the context of the common agricultural policy. if the cap is used to promote the conditions of the eu's external regions, we believe that the cap is being used for a purpose other than that provided for in the treaty. in practice, this means that the money for agricultural policy is used for general regional development, including the promotion of general employment, which is not the primary purpose of the cap.
mr president, as a liberal, i am not very fond of the mass collection of personal data; it is an instrument which is to be handled very carefully. however, i could not support the position of my own rapporteur. if we go to the bottom line of this dossier, it was all a question of whether the eu should stay in the picture or not. by not giving consent to the pnr agreement, we would have left air carriers and passengers in a no man’s land, and – knowing that we would not get a new negotiation – i think that would have been irresponsible. finally, as a liberal, i want to compliment and congratulate our commissioner on the result and the achievements of the last two years. this is not a perfect agreement, but we all know that a good political agreement is never perfect, so congratulations, commissioner.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think that many european citizens should be happy today that elections are about to take place in france and that there are also bundestag elections in germany, because otherwise we would have run the risk of having a majority in favour of making the taxation of petrol and diesel proportional. it turned out that it was not worth pursuing at the present time, which is also very wise, because it would simply mean a sharp increase in the cost of living for many companies and for many citizens. everyone knows that if you insist on equal taxation of diesel and petrol, it is not the case that the member states reduce taxes on petrol. no, you raise the taxes on diesel, and you get extra money in the treasury! i hope that the commission today has received the very, very clear signal - and understands the signal - that this kind of taxation is a very bad idea.
in writing. the european parliament has voted to approve the agreement between the us and the eu on the use and transfer of passenger name record data to the united states department of homeland security (2011/0382(nle)), as it is understood that the member states would be in a worse position without such an agreement. this is because, without the present draft agreement, the legal basis would be maintained at the 2007 level. it is expected that the united states would conclude bilateral agreements with the member states. this would weaken the negotiating power of the member states and ultimately the outcome of the bilateral agreements in question.
in writing. - i have chosen to vote in favour of the report on a common consolidated tax base because, in addition to reducing the administrative burden on companies operating across national borders, it is an effective means of countering tax evasion. i am therefore in favour of a common european tax base. however, the tax base should be much wider and more robust than both the report and the commission's proposal suggest, so that countries which already have a much wider corporate tax base - including denmark - do not risk losing a large part of their current tax revenue.
in writing. - i have chosen to vote for the marianne thyssen report on a common consolidated corporate tax base because such a base - in addition to reducing the administrative burden on companies operating across national borders - is an effective means of countering tax evasion. i am therefore in favour of a common european tax base. however, the tax base should be much wider and more robust than the report and the commission's proposal suggest, so that countries which already have a much wider corporate tax base - including denmark - do not risk losing a large part of their current tax revenue.
i have to say, madam president, i just went online to see the program for the biodiversity conference in hyderabad, india, this october. we are faced here with almost the diametric opposite of today's report, because until now we do not know the involvement of the european union in this important conference, nor which persons, if any, will be attending. in the report by mr gerbrandy, on the other hand, we are very precise, both when we talk about new measures, such as a comprehensive land framework directive for the whole union, and when we talk about the financing of biodiversity. but why should the eu decide where member states should be greener, as the report says? this includes roads, railways and industrial areas. it is therefore absolutely unnecessary for me to dictate specific areas in a report, as this is a matter of national competence and should be adapted to local and regional conditions. i cannot therefore vote in favour of the report. however, the report also contains a lot of good things, including the requirement for best practice on available scientific data to avoid biodiversity loss. it's very valuable. i cannot therefore oppose the report and will therefore vote in the affirmative. what i generally lack is the desire to educate european citizens to take responsibility for the world in which we live. this education begins in our national kindergartens and private homes.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, commissioner kroes, mr president of the council my good friend nicolai wammen, honoured colleague ms niebler: it appears to me that you are very happy and satisfied today. well, you should be; we should all be. however, i think it is safe to say that we liberals do not like price regulations, but for roaming this has proved necessary. looking back at the history, we began to regulate prices due to a cartel-like situation, where complete lack of competition in roaming services meant that operators could set their price levels as they pleased. it is not liberal when the market does not work and the consumers have no choice. so introducing price ceilings has been a necessary tool to try to bring costs down. however, despite some progress, prices continue to be significantly higher than domestic mobile prices. the reason is quite simple: the market still does not work. the price caps might have pushed prices down, but it has not increased the competition. the average mobile roaming prices are pretty much identical to the regulated price caps. that is why the liberal group demanded more competition from the beginning, and that has also been our main priority in the negotiations. it is not sustainable to undertake a revision every two or three years, so we need to break down the barriers between our national telecommunication markets to create market pressure to lower the prices. we believe that the new roaming deal is a step in that direction: the combination of allowing access to independent operators on the big companies’ networks and allowing for the separate sale of roaming services will give enough choice to consumers to simply dismiss those operators who demand ludicrous prices. another crucial element that we fought hard for is the local break-out, allowing mobile users to access the internet locally on a visited network – just like accessing a wi-fi hot spot. this is a new technology which can persuade mobile operators to realise that, unless they lower their prices, they will lose business. but there is crucial implementation work to be done now to ensure that especially the structural solutions work. we will be following this process closely from parliament, and hopefully we will not see each other here again in four years’ time, as the market will be doing its job and providing competitive prices for all consumers.
the committee on culture and education has tabled an opinion. - madam president, overall, the committee on culture is very satisfied with the implementation of the 2010 budget, as is also shown by the opinion adopted by the committee earlier this year. that satisfaction is reflected in paragraphs 1 to 4 of our opinion, which i will not go into in detail here. there is one area, however, on which we cannot be satisfied, either as a committee or as a parliament. it is described in paragraph 5 and is, in short, about a very promising pan-european television network which the commission chose to shut down at the eleventh hour. it was done without the approval of parliament and the council and on the basis of the slogan that we are living in a time of austerity. it is therefore surprising that instead of saving money, the money is being spent on the euronews television channel and a number of public relations activities in the commission. we cannot, of course, be satisfied with that as a parliament, and that is why the committee on culture and the afco committee have chosen to withhold the money from the commission's budget until they commit themselves to re-establishing the network in question. until that happens, i cannot, as the budget rapporteur in the cult committee, recommend raising the reserve we are talking about, and i ask the committee on budgetary control to step in so that we can restore this important initiative.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. the european union is a multi-billion euro business. this is done through the commission, the council, parliament and a wide range of institutions and agencies. these many billions did not fall from heaven. they come from hardworking taxpayers in the 27 member states. taxpayers who have, in addition, suffered cuts and deterioration in recent years. the question is therefore: who is in charge of controlling the use of this huge sum of money on behalf of these taxpayers? the european parliament is the only body directly elected by the citizens of the eu. the answer is therefore the european parliament, since national parliaments cannot control the whole of the eu. or, to put it more precisely, the european parliament does so for most of the institutions of the european union. the european parliament does not do this, however, in the case of the council, simply because the council refuses to answer the questions we put to it about its accounts. the council has had different explanations for why it feels itself to be above parliamentary control. first the council referred to a so-called gentleman's agreement, but when we found it out it turned out to be a unilateral declaration by the council. a declaration which, incidentally, was made in 1970, nine years before parliament was directly elected. the council then points out that under the treaty parliament can only approve the commission's accounts. and once we have approved it, we have also approved the accounts of all the other eu institutions. i think that's a very interesting point of view. the only logical conclusion is that we must now put our questions on the council's accounts to the commission. if the commission cannot answer, then of course this must have consequences for our approval of the commission's accounts. that would be absurd. i therefore hope that the council will come to its senses and answer the questions we have put. there is seldom complete agreement in a parliament, but there was complete unanimity in the position of the committee on budgetary control for this sitting to postpone the decision on the council's accounts until the autumn. we have thus shown our good will, because it gives the council and the danish presidency another opportunity to put an end to the closure and to accept instead parliamentary budgetary control, which applies to all the other eu institutions. better late than never!
i have to say, madam president, when i was young 20 years ago, i was not really that enthusiastic about the introduction of the single market. i thought it would only benefit capital and not so much the people, the citizens. but since then, fortunately, i have had a new and different view of the single market. i have seen it in action and i must say that the single market has become the motor of european cooperation today. the single market has contributed to growth, jobs and prosperity for the citizens of the eu. it is important that this should also be the case in the future. we must therefore ensure that the single market functions even better in the future. however, this will require us to do more than we are doing today. i am actually a little disappointed that the council is not here to listen to the debate, because one of the things that i think is important is that the member states realise that they have a huge responsibility to ensure that the legislation that is being made on the internal market is being properly implemented. as mr busuttil said, there are countries which are doing very well. if all the eu countries followed malta's example, we would have a fairly well-functioning single market. so, to my mind, it is largely a matter of the will of the member states. it needs improvement. we must do better, because if we do not do better, we will lose the support of the single market among citizens and businesses. we are already making fun of farmers who meet the requirements by building new cages for their laying hens. we are making fun of them because we are actually allowing eggs from hens that do not live in cages that meet the requirements to be bought on the internal market. or we create distrust among consumers who feel that they cannot rely on the safety or health of the products they buy in the internal market because some member states do not ensure that market surveillance works. or we create legitimate discontent among workers who feel that they are being excluded from competition because the authorities are not able to ensure fair competition. we can do better if we want to do better! in my opinion, the scoreboard is a very good example of this. it is a tool to show where the problems are and what we can do about them. i also share mr busuttil's idea of a fast-track procedure for dealing with cases where member states do not comply properly with the rules. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. it's not going fast enough today. there are other things that can be done. as the commissioner said, there is a task force that travels around to the capitals of the member states and helps the countries to implement eu legislation better. that is why i thank you for a good report and thank you for your efforts. we can do better, and i think it is important that we use the year 2000 to show the citizens that the single market is for them and not the other way around!
for the ppe group. mr president, the eu programmes must be more user-friendly. unfortunately, they are often formulated by officials for officials and not for entrepreneurs. too many entrepreneurs give up before they get started. we all know that it is the small and mediumsized enterprises that create jobs, and that is why we need to make the application procedures more accessible. we must get rid of this bureaucracy! in addition, i believe that we can establish a more appropriate link between access to finance for businesses and the challenges facing europe. we are faced with energy efficiency problems. it would be a good idea to link the financing of smes to some of these tasks by taking money from the structural funds and giving it to smes. a lot of jobs could be created for what we call blue collar people, ordinary people in suits, craftsmen insulating and putting new windows in and so on. this will help to solve both climate and employment problems, while at the same time using the funds for the benefit of small and mediumsized enterprises. they are the ones who create jobs. as regards the definition of smes, i think we should be careful not to shake too much of the current definition. i do not think that it should be extended under any circumstances. as it stands today, it covers over 99% of all enterprises.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this report is a great example of how to conduct policy with a cloud overhead. the point is that the report does indeed tackle a number of the serious problems we have with international crime in the eu, such as the mafia, trafficking in women, drug trafficking, arms smuggling, etc., but it does not mention in one word what everyone outside these houses is talking about, namely border controls. the most disastrous, perhaps the most disastrous decision that the european union has taken in the last many years, has been to prohibit the member states from guarding their own borders. we have a free and single market for goods and capital, services, etc., but never have citizens been asked whether they also want a single market for international crime. i think it is striking that at a time when germany is carrying out its border controls with poland, when the whole french presidential election was about border controls, when sweden has border controls, when the commission representatives last year threw themselves at denmark because we wanted border controls, that parliament manages to adopt a report on international crime which does not mention it in one word. this is a scandal!
mr president, i would like to thank you. when reality and ideology don't match, it's typically the ideology that's wrong. i thought of that when i read this report, which speaks in strong terms about the common criminal justice culture of the eu member states, about the wonderful positive outcome of mutual recognition, etc. it is a very specific european ideology that is certainly making use of these two aspects. the problem is that the differences between the criminal justice systems of the 27 member states are enormous and that the attempt to harmonize the rules of the member states is not helping to solve the problems, but rather the opposite. if we look at the cases which have arisen in connection with the common european arrest warrant, the cases which have arisen following the common terrorism legislation, etc., it turns out that there are enormous problems which should make it necessary, instead of attacking and pointing the way to a common european criminal court, to shout the gun and go the other way. that is why i voted against this report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is said that in ancient greece, when a politician presented a new bill, he had to wear a noose around his neck. there was, of course, a signal that there would be consequences if a bill was put forward that proved fatal. we are now fortunately past that practice, but i cannot help thinking about it when i read this report on consumer rights. of course, it is sympathetic to guarantee certain privileged rights to certain weak consumer groups. on the other hand, it is hard to avoid thinking that if the eu had not applied total harmonization of consumer rights with such zeal and intensity, the rules would never have fallen to the level they are at today. the fact is that one member state after another has been forced to create generally less favourable rules for consumers and that we are now in a situation where the eu has to create special rules for weak consumers. would it not have been better to have simply applied minimum harmonization and let the countries have their good rules in peace?
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are constantly told that the single market is the key to growth and stability in the eu member states. but what are the realities of the single market? the problem is that there is a huge difference in when countries are able - when they will - to implement the different directives. this means that what was supposed to be a uniform set of rules for all has in fact created 27 different standards. this is simply unacceptable! we have 85 directives which have now been adopted by the eu institutions and should be the law of the land, but which have not yet been implemented in one or more member states. this means that companies in countries that are good at implementing the rules in a timely, rapid and effective manner are placed at a relative disadvantage compared to those in countries where they simply let things slide. this is unacceptable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we will not accept that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think we all have a hard time dealing with the situation the european union has created in relation to turkey. i know that more and more of us are realizing that it is not only impossible to complete the process of accession negotiations, but that it actually entails something that we do not want. that relations with turkey are in fact getting worse and worse because they are trying - at least that is how it is perceived in turkey - to impose on the country models which are not really wanted by large sections of the population. so we see a growing islamization, we see a growing centralization of power and a rollback of democracy. this report thus testifies to the fact that there are not only many problems in the civil sector, but increasing problems. this is despite the fact that turkey has been negotiating membership for some years now and has been in dialogue with turkey for several years before it was accepted as a candidate country. perhaps it was time to review that policy, to turn it around and talk about something other than membership.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the cornelis de jong report on a european approach to criminal law because it sets up a number of obstacles to criminal law at eu level, including full respect for the principle of subsidiarity. the report also states that if eu legislation is to be enacted at all, it must respect a number of basic criminal law principles. however, my vote should in no way be used to support the desire for further harmonisation of criminal law at eu level.
in writing. − the internal market scoreboard is in my view one of the most important tools for speeding up the implementation of the directives on the internal market. in particular, it has been my experience that the naming-and-shaming approach has worked satisfactorily and has led the countries lagging behind to make more efforts. i am satisfied with the approach taken by the rapporteur, which focuses on the regulatory framework and, therefore, the implementation of the directives, and on the way in which implementation works for businesses and citizens. the report points to some problem areas where action can be taken and the new scoreboard unfortunately underlines that there are some problems. it is important that we get back to below the 1% threshold for transposing the directives in the first place and reduce the delay, which are some of the challenges that the new scoreboard points out. although the new scoreboard is a step in the right direction, i think we should consider whether we cannot go further with the same method. i would like to support the rapporteur's proposal to create a unit within the commission to ensure a faster and better implementation of the internal market directives and regulations.
i have to say, madam president, throughout its history, the european union has been at the forefront of the struggle for democracy, minorities and human rights. that is why we must also adopt this resolution against homophobia. gays, lesbians, bisexuals and transgender people should not be discriminated against because of their sexuality; but it still happens: violence, insults and humiliations motivated by sexual orientation take place in europe every day. as politicians and as europeans, we must take the lead and put an end to discrimination against homosexuals. only when we actively combat discrimination can we honestly expect it to spread to the rest of society. in denmark, a law is to be passed this summer allowing homosexuals to be ordained. this is also a step away from discrimination and discrimination. the european union must continue to be a progressive frontrunner in the fight for the values on which we want our society and our community to be built.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection . - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to take this opportunity to point out a few problems in the report on eu-china trade relations. overall, it is a good report, which points to some significant problems: technical barriers to trade, non-technical barriers to trade, problems with rare earths, etc. - issues which i myself have pointed out in my capacity as rapporteur on this subject in imco. the fact that i have some reservations about the report is due to the fact that the report places such great emphasis on reciprocity. i think that as a liberal and as a supporter of free trade, that is the wrong way to go. reciprocity is an incredibly emotional word that means very different things to different people, and therefore demanding reciprocity would be like dropping a bomb in the negotiations with china. this cannot be interpreted otherwise than as the eu closing its markets to the same level as china, which would look like a trade war. let me say that i am not opposed to making demands on our trading partners and to using the strength of the european union, but i think that one should be careful about using the word reciprocity. i would therefore have preferred a wording which was more in keeping with the objective of creating a level playing field, which is the word i myself used in my opinion.
the committee on budgets has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, the committee on budgets has considered a specific aspect of the commission's proposal for a financial transaction tax, namely whether part of the proceeds from this tax could be used for new own resources, which would then replace part of the current national contributions to the eu budget. the treaty clearly states that the union must finance its budget from its own resources. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a complicated and incomprehensible system that needs to be reformed. the committee on budgets considers that a financial transaction tax could be a subject for new own resources, as it covers a wide geographical area and could generate a considerable amount of revenue. this, of course, presupposes that all 27 countries will be involved, and it seems pretty clear that all 27 countries will not. personally, i am opposed to this financial transaction tax, but i thank the rapporteur for the positive reception of the opinion of the committee on budgets.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr commissioner, i have to ask you to take this opportunity to thank the commissioner for his work. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have been discussing this ftt (financial transaction tax) for many months and many wrong things have been said about it. it has been said that a ftt must necessarily be global in order to be sustainable, but the fact is that a number of countries around the world already have some form of transaction tax, such as the uk, south korea, switzerland, india, hong kong and south africa. it exists, and it exists efficiently. it has also been said that an ftt can be easily circumvented. but we have just said here in the european parliament that we will supplement the principle of residence with a principle of issue and a principle of ownership, which will make taxation very, very difficult to evade. it has been said that a ftt costs growth and jobs, but the commission's updated calculations actually indicate the opposite. if the proceeds are used wisely, if they are used for investment, they can actually give a boost to european gdp of 0.2 to 0.4%. it has been said that ordinary pensioners are hit when they put their money into savings, but the fact is that we need an incentive for pension companies to invest in more long-term investment models. that's what it's all about. and then it's been said that an activity tax is as good as an ftt, but the fact is that an activity tax will not change the speculative behavior of the financial sector, it will not be able to bring in the same revenues, and it will be easier to circumvent than an ftt. i therefore have an appeal to the council and to the summit today: i think you should listen to the european parliament, look at our report and at some of the proposals for improvement that we are putting forward in relation to the commission's proposal. i think you should listen to a very large majority of the european people who want a tax on financial transactions. i think it is time to move the debate out of the vacuum it has been in. i think we must move on to closer cooperation soon and i think we need a ftt that can bring in revenue and put a damper on the very speculative behaviour in the financial sector.
mr president, i would like to thank you. that speech may have been delivered very quickly, but it was excellent! it's totally spot-on how the world works. it is a good thing that such well-mannered and wise words can be heard from the socialist side of the house, and i am glad of that. we are in the midst of a serious economic crisis in europe. everyone is talking about growth, everyone is talking about job creation, and what is a huge majority in the european parliament doing? they are taking risk capital out of europe, making it more expensive to borrow money and thus more expensive and more difficult for companies to create jobs. it's not a very smart drug to use! but okay. to all of you who voted for this: go home to your respective countries and convince your governments that they can just implement a transaction tax, when it's as great as anyone will make it, if you let the rest of us go! i can at least say that it will not pass with danish votes.
mr president, i would like to thank you. now i've listened to a whole forest of people who all agree that what we need is to get fair treatment of the chinese. i think that no one in this house can disagree with that. what surprises me when i hear all these colleagues talking about reciprocity is that they think that the word reciprocity is the key to this relationship. the problem is that when you want to make agreements with other trading partners, you have to be very careful not to start a trade war, and reciprocity does. it is the first step towards a trade war, and it will not lead to more open markets, more access to china, more growth. what we need in europe is a realistic view of what the chinese can and will do. of course, we must not be naive. we must make demands, and this report is an expression of that. but i would caution against using the word reciprocity as a basis in this context. it is the first step towards a trade war, and it is therefore protectionism and the opposite of what i suppose most people in this house would like. we must have a level playing field, which i also describe in my opinion from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for this report. we do not want reciprocity as a basis, we want a level playing field.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a financial transaction tax, partly because i believe it is important to prevent speculative investments and partly because i believe it is right to let the banks pay back some of the gigantic sums of aid that taxpayers have paid in the form of bank packages. my vote in favour can in no way be taken as a contribution to the idea that the revenue from the financial transaction tax should be paid directly to the eu budget. it is vital to me that the revenue of the european union is allocated democratically by the national parliaments year after year. at the same time, i think it is important that the revenue from the financial transaction tax should be allocated to individual countries so that they can decide freely how to use the money, for example to fight poverty in the developing countries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. lieutenant! the european parliament has recently approved a number of reports aimed at improving resource efficiency throughout our part of the world, including by minimising food waste. these are sensible initiatives which will strengthen cooperation in europe towards more sustainable development, including better use of our common resources. but why should the eu decide how member states transition to better resource efficiency? this report calls for joint changes in tax and waste systems and calls for the use of public funds. in my view, tax and waste systems are national competence and should not be dictated by a european report, but must be adapted to local, regional and national conditions. the report calls for the phasing out of support schemes in the eu. that's a good idea! but at the same time, additional expenditure is being demanded and more demands are being made, and that is why i cannot vote for the report. but the report also contains good things, including the call for best practice on available scientific data to accelerate the transition to a resource-efficient economy. i cannot therefore oppose it and will therefore vote in the affirmative. i share the vision of a resource-efficient europe, but it must be achieved with less state aid and cleanup of existing regulations. i miss the fact that the report takes a position on the dumping of eu waste to third countries, such as plastic waste, which should remain in the eu for recycling in order to create local jobs and reduce imports of raw materials.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, i am at a loss to know where to begin. it moves me deeply, deeply, deeply that my own generation may be the first generation in europe that will not experience progress in living standards compared to their parents, that will not experience that europe means progress and opportunities to them. i am deeply and profoundly moved and frustrated that all the time we have been here, in all the discussions we have had as a parliament and with you as commissioner, youth unemployment has gone one way and that is up. but let me try to be a little more constructive: i want to start by thanking the commission for the initiatives, both the youth opportunities initiative and the employment package you brought in in april. these are real initiatives. but i have to say two things in that connection. one is that i do not quite believe that the solutions we are presenting are up to the challenge. the second is that i think we really need to move away from paper and into budgets, because otherwise young people won't feel that we're making a difference. i can only give you an example from this week: you have presented 'your first eures job'. it is an excellent initiative, but it affects only 5 000 young europeans and there are 5.5 million unemployed. we just need to get it up to a larger scale. we have to do something very extraordinary very soon. i have three questions for the commissioner. i hope you will have the opportunity to answer them, perhaps now or later. the first concerns the youth guarantee. i am very pleased that you have presented it in your paper. thank you for that. what does the commissioner think the member states will provide? will they deliver this and implement it by the end of 2012? secondly, where does the commissioner see young people being included in the growth debate that is unfolding in europe at the moment? will young people be included in a new investment pact if it becomes something at the very highest level of heads of state and government? thirdly and lastly, commissioner, if you want to think outside the box about youth unemployment, i think this house would like to be part of it and try to put in an extraordinary effort for this generation, which right now has very little perspective.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today we are voting on a very important report which could have a decisive impact on one of the major problems of equal opportunities in the european union, namely the lack of equal pay between men and women. equal pay for equal work or work of equal value has been a fundamental principle of the eu's values since the treaty of rome in 1957. despite this, there is still a gap of almost 17% between men's and women's wages. there is little progress in this area and in some countries it is even declining. that is why we are today making this strong appeal to the commission to revise the 2006 equality directive. we're doing this because we can see it's not working. the lack of equal pay has several causes. historically, wages in typical women's jobs have been valued lower than in traditional men's jobs. we can also see that wages are falling sharply in occupations with more than 30% of women. it is as if being a woman is in itself a disqualification in the labour market. in portugal, a recent study in a supermarket showed that men in the butcher's department were paid more than women in the fish department. the tasks were assessed as being of equal value, as the skills required to perform the two types of jobs were the same. it was the gender gap alone that determined the pay gap. the solution was to give women a pay raise and to break the gender divide between departments, so that now both men and women are employed in both departments. the example shows why it is so important that we define what work of equal value is if we are to do something about wage inequality. but it requires a commitment from all parties, from the eu as well as from national governments, trade unions and employers. it is not an individual problem when there are such wide pay differences. it is a social problem rooted in structural and historical causes and in stereotyped perceptions of the roles of men and women in the labour market. let us break down this barrier so that the eu can really live up to the over 40 year old treaty provisions on equal pay for equal work or work of equal value.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm not going to tell you what i think. more growth is needed and more production is needed to create more jobs for european citizens. i believe that more trade with europe can help create these jobs. japan is the third largest economy in the world. i know from my own country, denmark, that we have very good experience in dealing with japan. we're making a profit on the trade. i believe that the potential of the whole of the european union is enormous. i therefore support the commission and the council. let us begin these negotiations now. yes, there are barriers - but i believe that those barriers are best resolved at the negotiating table. and yes, there are still questions that have not been answered - but i believe that there is time to get them answered. i think that we should, for the sake of the citizens, start negotiations on more trade. we need it, both in europe and in japan.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think that this report contains many good ideas. it is fundamentally sympathetic to want to fight poverty in the world, especially in latin america. all the initiatives listed are of course of a sympathetic nature. however, when i read the report, i cannot help but think: i wonder when the compass will turn? i wonder when latin america will be the one to advise the eu on how to combat poverty? the mercosur region, the whole of latin america, has shown over the last decade a remarkable capacity to generate growth and development, to fight poverty, and so on. in the same period, we have seen longterm unemployment rise in europe, youth unemployment rise, the recession spread, and so on. the report says that free trade is the way forward. i can agree with that. perhaps the same should be considered here in europe. we should abandon all the over-regulation, the over-bureaucratisation of the european continent, the cramped ideological struggle for the euro to exist and be preserved, despite the fact that it creates poverty in the real world. i believe that the day is very near when latin americans will be the ones to give us in europe good advice.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is quite rightly said in this report that more and more countries are viewing energy policy as a policy of power. and it is really very wise that we in the eu, in europe, do something about it, that we make sure that we become independent instead of, as today, filling the pockets of potential terrorists with oil money from the middle east or eastern european oligarchs and so on. but when you look at the policies that are actually being implemented in the eu, you have to shake your head. because what we're seeing is wind turbines, solar cells, wave power, etc., all of these things that are put up, are designed to generate electricity. but is it electricity that we import from the middle east? or electricity we import from russia? - i know. that's why the focus is completely off. the focus should be on what we put in our cars. we have a lot of potential in biomass, in biogas, etc., but we're wasting it because we're so blinded by the fact that the wind turbines, the solar cells, the wave power, whatever we have, are going to fill the whole continent.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. at the same time, i am opposed to the search for energy in the arctic region. however, my vote does not change my support for cooperation with third countries, especially developing countries, on research and development cooperation on low-emission technologies and innovation and sharing of data on knowledge transfer, including in the field of clean and renewable energy sources, as set out in paragraph 78. at the same time, i am in favour of clean and renewable sources of energy that are not dependent on fossil fuels or nuclear energy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as a member of parliament's negotiating delegation for the medium-term budgetary framework, i would like to begin by thanking the danish presidency and the minister for european affairs, nicolai wammen, and his team for their good, open and trusting cooperation. you've been listening to us, and we've been told what was coming. it's a big package. it is not just the economic framework that is at stake, but also some 60 different pieces of legislation which define the future agricultural policy, the rules for the structural funds, research programmes, training programmes, transport investments and energy investments. it is a huge complex which must be adopted now, and i think you have handled it well. it has been said many times today that the budget is important as an instrument for securing growth and jobs, and it is important that we have this multiannual framework so that we can plan investments and create certainty around the common agricultural policy. but, but: 2020, which is the year the framework is going to reach, is far away and there has to be flexibility because new things can happen before 2020. we need flexibility both in terms of reserves and in terms of moving funds around if we are to prioritise differently in the future. let me give you an example: six months after the last budgetary framework was adopted, the russians cut off gas supplies to bulgaria, and then we found out that we had to have an eu energy policy. however, there was no money to support such an energy policy. we found a solution by finding unspent funds in the agricultural budget, but it is not certain that we will be able to do so in the future. so flexibility is needed, also in the future.
i have to say, madam president, i have not voted on the resolution on eu-japan trade negotiations a moment ago, not because we in the liberal group do not want to have that agreement, but because we think that the resolution that has been adopted is actually helping to delay the process. for us in the liberal group there is no doubt that the way out of the crisis is growth and trade, free trade, and that is why the eu must now start negotiations with japan on a trade agreement. today parliament has voted on a joint resolution by the social democrats, the conservatives and the greens. we believe that the decision as it stands will delay the start of these negotiations, which is not in the interests of either the eu or japan. we in the liberal group would rather than discuss interinstitutional conflicts, start negotiations with japan on this trade agreement on the basis of the mantra that growth is something you buy and not buy. a free trade agreement with the world's third largest economy has enormous potential and i hope that all parties will understand this so that we can start negotiating this trade agreement immediately.
in writing. - the reasons for voting in favour of the fjellner report on tariff preferences for developing countries; to enjoy what the countries grow or produce, this access is necessary. the reduction of countries to the 80 poorest has many positive elements, as it strengthens the economies and competitiveness of these countries. at the same time, the agreement supports the implementation of the countries' own strategies for sustainable development and poverty reduction. the socialist group has managed to secure a longer transitional period for the countries which are withdrawing from the system. we tried to get a majority for a slightly more flexible system, where more attention is paid to inequality between countries (the gini coefficient) and other criteria of development (the human development index) when deciding who should be included in the system. the agreement is the best compromise possible and it is important that the agreement was finalised. as regards countries which are no longer covered by the scheme, the negotiations will take place directly between the eu and these countries. it is also positive that the scheme is flexible, allowing countries whose poverty situation is worsening to join.
in writing. - i voted against the motion for a resolution on the multiannual financial framework and own resources because it supports the austerity policies of the eu member states which affect ordinary workers. i also do not support the financing of the eu budget from its own revenue through a vat or a financial transaction tax. an own revenue would limit democratic control of the eu's budgets and limit the redistribution of resources from rich to poor regions. i support a version of a financial transaction tax - the so-called 'robin hood tax' - where the proceeds go to the member states to finance welfare and combat climate change and poverty in developing countries. i also support the role of parliament in the process and my vote is in no way in support of the council's proposal.
in writing. - reason for voting in favour of the resolution on colombia and peru of 13 june 2012. the eu-tunisia free trade agreement has been finalised but has not yet been ratified by the european parliament. the eu has a general policy of not concluding trade agreements with countries with serious human rights problems. that is why we are voting in favour of this resolution, since it sets out the requirements and gives the governments of peru and colombia the opportunity to demonstrate their willingness to improve conditions in the field of human and workers' rights. this is particularly true in colombia, which is the most dangerous country in the world to be a professional in. the trade and sustainable development section of the fta provides for the establishment of monitoring mechanisms involving civil society organisations. the decision refers to the fact that the legislative framework for this has yet to be established in colombia and peru (point 5). in addition, the decision requires colombia and peru to establish domestic advisory groups with binding civil society involvement to monitor the implementation of the free trade agreement (paragraph 7) and the implementation of the victims and land restitution law (paragraph 17). the resolution is the best compromise possible and a necessary step in preparing the european parliament's vote on the free trade agreement in the autumn.
for the ecr group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. more and more people live near factories and businesses that handle dangerous substances and chemicals. this poses risks to their lives and health and irreparable damage to the environment. from june 2015, stricter rules will be introduced for the approximately 10 000 companies covered by the new seveso directive. the aim is to prevent and combat accidents involving dangerous chemicals and to inform the public. that's good. but because of the opposition in the council, the possibility of protecting citizens and the environment in the event of accidents is not being used to the full. our populations must be safe, even if they live near a business that uses substances that are dangerous to inhale or otherwise can be harmful in the event of an accident. the most positive aspect of the proposal is that eu citizens will now have access to more information. all risk businesses must develop a prevention policy and continuously improve their security level and make it publicly available on the internet. that is why i support the motion.
the commission. i think it is important that we should be told in this situation that we need a much, much better authorization than we have had up to now. we all know that. i would like to stress what needs to be done now, namely that there must be transparency, there must be openness, there must be access so that even completely independent researchers and doctors, etc., can enter and check experimental data. this means that when experiments are carried out on humans, it must be impossible for the industry to conceal the results. it has to be such that at any point in the process you can come in and see: have there been any adverse effects here? is this really an improvement? or is there no improvement? are we robbing society by coming up with new devices, new things that actually worked perfectly with the old ones we had? it is absolutely essential, in my view, that we have that transparency, and i very much hope that commissioner dalli will support that it is now the patient, that it is the people, that it is the citizens who are at the centre and not the industry. secondly, i hope that we will introduce that if there is cheating on the results (we have seen this in the pharmaceutical industry) if there is cheating on the results (i am not talking about the breast implants, it was illegal what was done, but there can be a lot of other cheating) then it should be treated as a crime and not just as something that can be handled with fines. the last thing i would like to say to my colleagues and also to the commission is that if the industry ever finds out that there is a prospect of real, genuine, true transparency and access to the raw data, then it will put a completely formidable lobbying armor against us. we will be subjected to all kinds of accusations about how we are destroying their opportunities, we are reducing the chances of patients, we are destroying the opportunities of competition, we are destroying the opportunities of research and innovation. i hope very much that we will be able to resist the pressure we are all under, so that we can actually get something done that we can be familiar with and that we can take to the americans (if we do not want their system) and say: ours is even better!
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. we have voted in favour of the resolution on the future of the internal market. the decision contains important proposals for updating and developing the internal market. we have supported a number of amendments, but not the tax amendment. we are of course in favour of avoiding tax evasion and tax havens, but we would like to stress that we do not see increased harmonisation as a viable path. taxation remains a national matter.
in writing. - we have voted in favour of paragraph 6. we are not opposed to the eu considering ways in which member states can use taxes to boost job growth or raise wages, as long as the member states themselves have full control over the final design of their tax systems.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. i am not sure that this is the case. last year the danish presidency made the following promise in its programme, and i quote: 'growth and higher employment must return to europe in both the short and long term'. today, therefore, it is time to take stock and it must be said that the promise was not fulfilled in the short term. on the contrary, i think so. yesterday, the new unemployment numbers came in. they are a human disaster never in the history of the euro have so many been unemployed and this disaster is also due to the eu's austerity dictates, which the danish presidency has supported from day one. take ireland, for example: because of the fiscal compact, the irish will be forced to make huge savings in the coming years. this is such a huge saving that it is equivalent to ireland having to cut two thirds of their entire education sector. the growth and jobs pact adopted by the council on friday does not address such consequences of austerity. it's like a band-aid on an open fracture. we have today over 25 million unemployed in the eu, and then the council adopts a job plan without any concrete objectives on how much unemployment to reduce. it's just not good enough. when i spoke at the beginning of the danish presidency, i said that the people did not need more eu-dictated cuts, but jobs to improve our common welfare, and that the danish presidency now had to show whether it was part of the solution or part of the problem. today we regret to note that the danish presidency was not part of the solution on this point.
for the edf group. i am not sure that this is the case. my dear helle thorning-schmidt, you did it! no one has ever sold out of their inheritance money like that before and then just dropped it all on the floor. you said yes to the financial treaty. you declared yourself european by heart. you lifted border controls. you protected the farm subsidies. for six long months, you've been talking your way into the hands of the eu's unelected elite. yet your government has been booted out of the european parliament. the other day you had to cancel the referendum on the danish reservation, and yesterday you dropped the eu patents on the floor. what i thought was gonna be a historic love story ended up being a soap opera. europe at work, that was your slogan. unemployment in the eu has not been as high as it is today since 1997. the euro is not just the titanic after the iceberg. the euro is the titanic at the bottom of the icy atlantic. and now the people of europe are drifting in the cold waters, hoping that you, who have sunk their ship, will come to their rescue. but you don't, because you're groping blindly! you have held 20 summits to save the euro, but the only thing you have saved is a shameful legacy for yourselves, and you have left an economy in ruins. so let me say this very clearly, so clearly that even you can understand it: shame on you. i have heard many people wonder about the lack of vision of the danish presidency. even your french socialist friends didn't meet you when they wanted to kickstart the economy. but i know what is behind it, because in reality this has not been an ordinary, proper presidency at all. it's been the longest job interview in the history of the world. one long preparation for your coming defeat as prime minister of denmark. in two and a half years' time, a new commission and a new president of the european union will be elected here in the european union. i'll bet you'll be a candidate for both. not for power, but to get home to our friends here in the eu. so watch out, manuel barroso, watch out, van rompuy, watch out, all of you who sit here and advise and govern without any popular mandate whatsoever. here is a woman who will stop at nothing to get what she wants. the danes have had so much to experience in the last six months. i therefore believe that i can say that i speak for most danes when i say: 'dear helle thorning-schmidt, please return to the eu and let us take denmark back'. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m.) (the president agreed to answer a blue card question under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue card questions. what are you talking about? mr morten messerschmidt is completely outdoing himself compared to last time, and i thought that was practically impossible. perhaps he should have looked in the mirror when he said shame on you, because that was absolutely not a speech worthy of messerschmidt. but peace be with it. it is the patents that i would like to ask mr messerschmidt about, because mr messerschmidt is very concerned that the prime minister has dropped the patents on the floor, but i know that it is mr messerschmidt who wants to have a referendum on patents in denmark and who will go out and recommend - i can understand - that we should not have a common patent court. i think that is a very good point. and what will mr morten messerschmidt say to all the european and danish companies which have been asking for a common patent for 30 years, so that it will be considerably cheaper for european companies to apply for patents and thus strengthen their competitiveness?
blue card answer. mr president, thank you for the question which is divided into two parts. first, there is the question of the referendum. i am a strong supporter of referendums, as mr rohde would like to know. we insisted on this in the last amendment to the treaty, whereas mr rohde's party insisted on the opposite. we insisted on this in the financial treaty, whereas mr rohde's party insisted on the opposite. it is therefore not surprising that we are now insisting on a referendum, given that we have the possibility under the danish constitution. then the case itself. well, our basic concern is the one that the danish patent association has also expressed, namely a concern with regard to the rules on forum shopping. if it is true that a small patent holder can be forced to defend his patent in any national court and cannot immediately bring the case before the central authority, then we have a problem which means that it may be to the benefit of the large joint stock companies, etc., that is to say those whom mr rohde would like to serve, but not to the small patent holder.
mr president, i would like to thank you. europe is in the midst of an economic crisis. several countries have been on the brink of a decided economic collapse. unemployment is alarmingly high, growth is worryingly low. in times like these, the eu needs to deliver concrete results. at such times, the member states need to stand together to create progress and optimism. it is not an easy task, but it is an important one, and the danish presidency has succeeded in doing so. does that mean you saved the world? does this mean that the crisis is over and that europe is now fully back on track? no, of course it does not, but it does mean that in the past six months under danish leadership decisions have been taken which are big steps in the right direction. under the headings 'a responsible europe', 'a dynamic europe', 'a green europe' and 'a secure europe', the danish presidency has delivered concrete results, political agreements and compromises which have direct relevance for all europeans. with over 20 million unemployed in the eu, with youth unemployment exploding and with plenty of reasons for despair, it is the many growth initiatives that are particularly impressive. the latest of course is the european growth pact. a pact that will create tens of thousands of jobs, a pact that will get things moving, but that will do so in a way that does not override the responsibility and the need for economic consolidation. the energy efficiency directive also stands out from other concrete results. we are dealing here with legislation which is not only environmentally ambitious, it is unconditional - in fact it is the most ambitious of its kind in the world - it is also legislation which will create a lot of jobs, up to two million by 2020. more than 250 concrete results have been achieved. 250 decisions of importance to the citizens of europe. the european union can be proud of that, we in the european parliament can be proud of that, and the council of ministers, led by the danish presidency, can rightly be very proud of that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i also think that there is reason to congratulate the presidency on its success. i would like to take this opportunity to pass it on to our competent officials, but also to the prime minister's minister for europe, nicolai wammen, who has done a very great job here in the european parliament, which i think everyone in this house appreciates, regardless of party colour. but now it's not all praise. there's gonna be some questions, too, because there are some things i'm wondering. it is that the prime minister in her speech takes konrad adenauer in vain and speaks of her being the 'european city heart' and spends part of her speech talking about solidarity. it is therefore surprising to me that the danish prime minister has been busy in the danish media this past week denying a financial union, saying no to denmark being one of the countries that has to answer for debts owed to other countries, which we are already doing, and has spent the week canceling a referendum. may i remind the prime minister of the prime minister's own words in a speech she gave not so long ago, when she asked: 'what international organisation in the whole history of human kind has ever been able to do anything like what the eu has done in the past six months?' that's a lot to take in. those are very, very big words. i think that there are some events that could be mentioned that are perhaps greater than what has happened here. but how does this relate to the fact that we do not want a referendum in denmark? if we have made such major decisions in the eu, then it should lead to a referendum and not the other way around, prime minister.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr prime minister, welcome back to the european parliament! the last time you were in this chamber you said something which i think was very thoughtful, namely that you had a very great deal of sympathy for the millions of young people who are struggling right now with unemployment and with no prospects for the future, just as your own generation did in the 1980s. the problem of youth unemployment has not disappeared since january, but the good news is that, unlike just six months ago, there is now a much greater focus on creating growth and employment for europe's young people. six months ago, the mantra was cuts, now the mantra is also investment, growth and employment. we have also recently had a european youth guarantee included in the conclusions of the european summit. this is not only the merit of the danish presidency, but it is also the merit of the danish presidency. thank you so much for that. so, now i see that my time is passing too quickly. i would just like to say that denmark has passed the european exam, and i think that the danish presidency has delivered. thank you for that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. denmark was given the presidency at a difficult time. the european debt crisis caused europe's leaders to devote all their energy to talking about a fiscal compact and union. there has been talk of treaties, pacts and institutional changes instead of focusing on strengthening the internal market, removing distortive subsidies and actually getting growth going. but it has been a difficult working environment for the whole presidency. i would like to thank in particular the minister for european affairs, mr nicolai wammen, who has been very visible in this parliament and who has done a great deal to involve parliament in the activities of the presidency. thank you for that, nicolai. i am particularly pleased that the presidency has put antibiotic resistance on the agenda and i welcome the positive conclusions of the council. the most important achievement of the presidency is the agreement on improved safety of dangerous chemicals. but there are also thorns: i am disappointed that the council has decided to degrade the commission's proposal for a reform of the common fisheries policy. the council has in fact decided that european fisheries should not be made sustainable. i am very disappointed that this is happening under the danish presidency. but all in all, i should like to thank the danish government for a very understanding and professional presidency.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to take this opportunity to make a single point. i am, like so many others, very pleased with the danish presidency and i would like to express this on this occasion, and especially thank nicolai wammen for a very good cooperation. one thing i have regretted a little is that the presidency has not done a little more than the many thoughts that are being made at the moment about what should happen on top of the crisis and how we can go about creating popular legitimacy. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to thank you. thanks, i'll try again. as i have just said, i am pleased with what has happened under the danish presidency. i think we've come a long way. i want to commend everyone for that. i also think that the danish minister for europe, nicolai wammen, has done very well, as others have said. i think there is one point missing, and i have pointed this out a few times along the way. there has been a debate in europe over the last six months, particularly on the part of germany, about how to move forward, how to establish a foothold in the populations. i think it is regrettable that the danish presidency has not really wanted to enter into that discussion. i had hoped that they would have taken the opportunity to have that discussion raised as well. but i can only hope that in the future - and the prime minister will hopefully confirm this - that they will step in and perhaps join the cooperation with the european parliament to move forward in that discussion.
in writing. - in the regulation on road transport control devices (silvia-adriana ticău), i voted against an amendment to require the use of tachographs to ensure compliance with the maximum transport times for live animals in the interests of animal welfare. the regulation on recording equipment in road transport aims to control the driving/resting rules of drivers by means of tachographs and should be reserved for that purpose. if tachographs are used to check compliance with the maximum transport times for live animals, i believe that the control devices are used for a purpose other than that provided for in the regulation. although i support better animal welfare and control of maximum transport times for live animals, i do not think that this should be regulated in this regulation but through separate sectoral legislation in this area.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this debate has shown that the agreement is political. it's a fight to upgrade israel. on the one hand and on the other, on the part of the palestinians, but also on the part of large parts of the arab world, an upgrade, a recognition of the acaa will be seen as a reward. we have heard it, we who have been in the area have said it so many times very clearly, and it was also said when the palestinian foreign minister was here, so let us now be open about it. this will be a reward and it will be more for less, because human rights are going backwards at the moment, and then israel is actually given a better chance. i do not think there is anyone here - to answer those who say that we are just after israel - there is none of us who would not wish that we had an israel that lived in peace and democracy, within recognized borders, both their own recognized borders and ours, and with whom we would gladly trade. but we will not do business with anyone who does not want to respect our fundamental values.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, it is high time that we in the eu establish a right for all citizens to have access to an account and an obligation for all banks to offer an account. i would of course like to see the eu not needing to introduce such legislation at all, and the member states or at best the banks themselves taking on the task of ensuring that all citizens have access to an account. the reality, however, is much more serious. it shows us that 7% of all adult europeans today do not have access to an account. i think that is why we must take responsibility on the european side and say that this must be a clear right in the union. we know that these are students, these are migrants, these are the poorest in our society, who may not be the most attractive bank customers, but that does not make it any less important to ensure that they have access to an account, because it is also a tool for active inclusion. so i would just say in short that it is absolutely crucial that the commission comes forward with a legislative proposal and that it is absolutely crucial that this house very broadly backs the excellent text that is available from the econ committee tomorrow.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the cypriot presidency will work to ensure that we adopt the framework for the eu budget for 2014-2020 in the next six months, and i wish the cypriot presidency every success in this task. you'll need it. it's not an easy task. there is a group of countries that want a smaller budget, there is a group of countries that want more money, and each country has veto power, so there is certainly a need for diplomatic skills on the part of the person at the head of the table. the framework for the eu's agricultural policy and the framework for aid to poor regions must be defined. this represents 80% of the budget. the commission has made a serious proposal which both limits expenditure and allows us to invest more aggressively in joint research, investment in transport and energy networks and in education. in short, a budget that supports the common strategy of economic growth, improved competitiveness and less dependence on fossil fuels. it is true that the negotiations on the eu budgetary framework are traditionally to end in a dogfight or in an oriental bazaar with everyone fighting against everyone, because everyone will be the winner. but why should it be so? on the contrary, we now need to stand together, to work together, also with our new powers, to ensure a dignified and open process and a good result for all, and i thank the cypriot presidency for its signals to involve us in accordance with the rules.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. it is quite obvious to the green group in the european parliament that crisis policies and the way out of the crisis must remain at the centre of attention in 2013, because if we fail to implement the necessary reforms, we will be paralysed at best and, at worst, falling apart as a union. that is why not only short-term economic and financial reforms are of very high priority for us, but also longer-term institutional reforms are of high priority. at the same time, it is clear to us that the relationship between the crisis and the commission's work programme must be dynamic, because the crisis means that there is not only an annual need, but also a monthly and a weekly need to actually propose policies and make adjustments. for example, we cannot wait until 2013 to start the four building blocks of van rompuy. they're to start immediately. the fact that we are focusing on crisis policies does not mean that they are the only ones we have to deal with. it is also important for us greens to give high priority to the social and environmental aspects of our social development. in fact, we believe that a more holistic approach to the crisis is the only sustainable way out. in particular, we want to see the commission particularly active in relation to a debt relief fund and a roadmap for eurobonds, a banking union including more cash requirements for banks receiving public support, a more balanced approach to consolidation, a progressive unwinding of the macroeconomic imbalance scoreboard addressing both surplus and deficit countries, a comprehensive and concrete plan on tax avoidance and tax evasion and an active role for the commission in relation to further work on a tax on financial transactions, a more socially balanced approach in the annual growth survey and in the national reform programmes so that all 2020 targets are taken into account, a unwinding of the european youth guarantee and a constant pressure on member states to provide a future for europe's young people. we have many other priorities. they are set out in our specific motion for a resolution tabled on behalf of the group. i would say to the commission that we want an active 2012 and an even more active 2013, and perhaps also a courageous one, because it is make or break for the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i voted today to postpone the vote until the court had spoken. there was a majority who did not want that. after that, i had to vote yes to acta. i do not think that the agreement is perfect, i do not think that it restricts freedom on the internet, but european companies lose a lot of money every year, and a lot of jobs are lost because of counterfeiting, because of illegal copies of products. we adopted the creutzmann report yesterday on action within the eu to stop counterfeiting and counterfeiting, but that is not enough. we must stop crime at its source and we need an international legal framework which allows for the enforcement of legal protection through customs controls, embargoes and the possibility of claiming liability. india and china are not in acta, and now it will be even harder to push these countries into international trade agreements. today i have to say that they are laughing all the way from new delhi to beijing!
in writing. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. we recognize the need to protect copyright and to combat illegal copying, but we could not support the acta agreement in its present form. firstly, there are a number of unclear and imprecise elements in the agreement, such as how enforcement should work in practice, particularly in relation to the internet. on the one hand, the agreement means significant legal changes for many eu member states and thus for a large number of european citizens. in addition, the fact that parliament was not involved in the negotiation of the agreement itself means that we have not had the opportunity to table amendments. we therefore believe that acta in its present form is not a useful instrument.
in writing. − we continue to fight for the abolition of eu agricultural aid, but we voted in favour of the report on direct payments to farmers for 2013, as the reform of the eu's agricultural policy up to 2020 requires transitional arrangements. this should not, however, be seen as a general endorsement of the objectives and means of the cap.
in writing. − i support the measures contained in the own-initiative report on the european union strategy for the protection and welfare of animals, including in particular the parts dealing with the prohibition of animal testing in cosmetics and the labelling of meat from animals slaughtered without stunning. however, i preferred the alternative motion for a resolution on animal welfare tabled by the gue/ngl, which contained the same wording as the original report, but in addition also called for reduced transport times for animals sent for slaughter and a ban on the sale of meat from cloned animals. that is why i voted for the alternative resolution and against the original one.
in writing. − i support the measures contained in the own-initiative report on the european union strategy for the protection and welfare of animals, including in particular the parts dealing with the prohibition of animal testing in cosmetics and the labelling of meat from animals slaughtered without stunning. however, i preferred the alternative motion for a resolution on animal welfare tabled by the gue/ngl, which contained the same wording as the original report, but in addition also called for reduced transport times for animals sent for slaughter and a ban on the sale of meat from cloned animals. that is why i voted for the alternative resolution and against the original one.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. i would also like to say on behalf of the alde group that we are in favour of this project and think it is very good that we have started it and that it can be started quickly. i would also like to thank mr göran färm for his very good work in finding a result for this pilot project. in denmark, where i come from, the idea of project bonds is actually not so foreign because we have invested in several of our fixed links - the bridge that connects the country and the bridge to sweden - with loans taken out on the private market by the company that built the bridge, which are then repaid through contributions from those who drive on the bridge. it is a way of raising capital for infrastructure investment, and we all know - as has been said many times today - that it will probably be many years before the public treasury can really afford to meet the needs for investment. in the united states we have seen such a bond market financing infrastructure, and we hear from the private sector that with the efforts we are making within the next 10 years, such a bond market could easily be set in motion. that is to say, we may one day find ourselves in a situation where this is something that can actually manage itself, almost without support from the eu budget. but we need support in the first place: we need to borrow the confidence that is in the european investment bank so that investors in the form of pension funds and insurance companies can have confidence that they are investing in serious projects. we need that to get things moving. i would also say that it is important that we have an agreement on how we follow up on the experience gained with this project so that we can go ahead with it and have a much greater commitment to this in the future. (the president agreed to answer a blue card question under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue card answer. it is clear that pension funds and insurance companies buying such securities must consider whether there is sufficient security for the investors' money, for the pensioners' money. but we are in a situation at the moment where this is a very latent problem for all those who operate in the financial markets. even government bonds are not very safe today. in addition, we really need to establish such a market which can easily be very secure and with a payment profile that matches the needs of these long-term investors so that they can ensure that the money is there on the day they have to pay their pensions. it is also about investing in a society so that when mr martin and i are old and retire, we actually have a functioning society.
the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. although the calendar says 2012, we still see that homosexuality is taboo in many parts of the world, and that homosexuals, bisexuals, transgender people are persecuted and subjected to violence, abuse and humiliation. it is totally unacceptable that a particular group should have its human rights violated simply because it belongs to a minority. when we look at what is happening in africa, there is still a lot to fight for. here, even the most basic rights are non-existent, and our resolution today on violence against lesbian and lgbti rights in africa is therefore unfortunately both timely and necessary. violence, rape and discrimination against lesbians is a daily occurrence, both as corrective rape, but also through discriminatory legislation that prohibits homosexuality and, in the worst cases, provides for the death penalty. lesbians in africa are doubly affected: they are both vulnerable because of their sexuality and because they are women. being a woman in africa is very risky. gender-based violence and rape are common and perpetrators are rarely prosecuted. that is why we are calling today, with this joint resolution, for an end to these atrocities, especially in the 38 african countries where homosexuality is prohibited by law. we call on the eu institutions to put pressure on these countries through negotiations and cooperation and trade agreements. we call on african activists, ngos and individuals to continue this fight and for the eu to support the progressive forces that want real improvements in the situation of lgbti people.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i would like to thank the president-in-office. when i have told the voters in denmark about the work on standardisation, they have actually had difficulty understanding what it is really about. in the end, it can be said that standards and the work of standardization in the eu are in fact a hidden success of european cooperation. standardization - without it, our daily lives would be much more difficult! for example, they ensure that we can use our usb stick in any pc. they also ensure that the wiring on our light bulbs is standardized, so that we can buy any lamp and still be sure to find a bulb that fits. it is also standards that help to make products on the european market safer in general, from toys to building construction, and it is standards that help us to test our food and help us to ensure that the environment is protected. that is why it is also very important that we have had our legislation looked at and that the existing standardisation legislation has been revised at european level. in this way we can make it even easier to be consumers, even safer to be workers, and we can also make it even easier to be businesses producing goods for the internal market. let me highlight three points in the proposal we have now negotiated which i think are good. first of all, it is absolutely essential that we have more transparency in the political mandate-making process that we have to have when we are making political decisions about which mandates to allocate. secondly, it is essential that we have secured a wider participation in the standardization work, and it has been essential for us in the socialist group to ensure that consumers, workers, environmental organizations, etc. are more involved in the decision-making on standards. it's been quite important to us. finally, i would say that it has also been important for us to ensure that we did not make a virtual open door in relation to giving political mandates in the service sector. we have wanted to insist that the member states retain their competence in all matters relating to the definition of fundamental principles of social relations, social security, health systems, etc. with the amendments which we have received from parliament, we have ensured that we do not alter the competence of the member states in this area. but the point is that we have a win-win situation. workers, consumers, environmental organisations and businesses are all benefiting greatly from this revision of the standardisation legislation, which makes it easier, better and faster to create standards. actually, all that's left is to say congratulations. i would like to congratulate the european companies, the european consumers and the european workers on legislation that makes it safer to be a citizen of the union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank mrs yannakoudakis for a very good report. i think we have been able to get through the difficult problems and we have achieved a great result. i would particularly like to emphasize what was also emphasized in the presentation, namely that we ensure that donations are voluntary, transparent and non-commercial. the last part is the most dangerous. we are facing, as mrs ries also pointed out, a dramatic shortage. and there are certain issues in this connection which may lead to something that we cannot be aware of. i would like to mention first of all the great shortage of human eggs! i mean, human eggs. we have enough of the men's sperm! but women's eggs are a scarce commodity and it is certain that if we do not make a very active effort here, they will become the object of trade. so women in poorer countries will be paid to give eggs because there is such a need, and that is why we need to stick to this point so much. thank you for agreeing on this and for setting clear rules, and i hope that we can make the rest work as well.
blue card questions. what are you talking about? mr president, we are now forcing some of our maritime transport onto land, and it is going to be bad environmental accounting when lorries have to drive through the whole of the baltic and into germany. bas eickhout says it is a good day for europe when we now choose trucking over shipping. but why is nothing being done in the mediterranean?
the s&d group is not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the last year, many people have asked me whether the european union can save itself from the crisis. i have always said: 'yes, if we save energy, we can do a great deal to help europe out of the crisis.' the eu is expected to spend up to eur 400 billion importing oil in 2012, money that could be put to much better use. we have already made progress in our renewable energy and co2 reduction targets, but we are not good enough to save energy. but before we can save, we have to invest, and energy savings are a really good investment. investing in energy efficiency does not just mean saving on electricity bills. investments in building renovation and more energy-efficient technology will also stimulate european economies and create new green jobs notably locally in the member states. because you can't move tasks like building cavity insulation or energy auditing overseas. the vote on the energy efficiency directive today will be bittersweet. the directive, as has been said here before, is far from being as ambitious as parliament had hoped. on the contrary, i am glad that we have finally managed to agree with the council that we can and must do better. without the directive, the eu would save only 9% of its energy in 2020. the new directive will save us 15%, and perhaps even more, and is a sensible step in the right direction. but we lack a very basic recognition that it is not a question of what we can afford, but a question of what we cannot afford not to do. with these words i would like to urge you to vote yes to the energy efficiency directive, but do not forget that we are still far from the target.
mr president, for me as a dane, it is safe to say that although energy efficiency has maybe faded a bit from a public perspective during the current economic situation, the dossier was by far one of the most important tasks for the danish presidency and – let us be honest – it was not a walkover for anybody to get a first agreement. there were quite a few hurdles to overcome, but we succeeded. i think the danish presidency did very well. it managed to balance ambitions between goals and flexibility and recognised when to close a deal in the council, which was absolutely crucial for further negotiations. having been in close contact with minister lidegaard during and after the negotiations, i know that the presidency was extremely grateful to this house: to the committee on industry, trade and energy as a whole and to the rapporteur and the shadows in particular. there were lots of obstacles along the way. without the impressive strong political will of the european parliament to get a result, the danish presidency would have been sent home with empty hands. of course, ambitions were drastically cut, but we have a sound compromise where ambitions and the need for flexibility meet. this is, in particular, thanks to very efficient and professional co-decision work between all the european institutions, which is something to learn from in the future. congratulations to europe, congratulations to us. mr turmes, you did a fine job.
mr. chairman, please. i'm not going to let you do this. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think it's a good deal and it's good to have the support. if we can save up to 20% of the 400 billion we spend on importing oil and gas, that's money that can be used for other things. that's money that can be used for new energy renovations. it's gonna get the local workers going. we are creating jobs in europe. i would have liked a more ambitious agreement, but i think it is a great achievement that we have got this part of the agreement, for example, on the energy saving scheme. we have tried the energy saving scheme in denmark and it now appears that we can actually save even more by means of voluntary agreements. but we have to look at how we can do more in the future. i believe that eco-design can also be extended to the industrial sector to the benefit of the competitiveness of european companies on the world market, so there is no doubt that there are still plenty of opportunities. there are still low-hanging fruit to be picked. but all in all, it's a great deal.
madam chairman! it is clear to everyone that we lack investment in infrastructure, in other words energy infrastructure. we know that funding is always the biggest problem. i believe that we can actually encourage investment by, for example, our pension funds in europe by adjusting the ownership guidelines. i would like to be quite clear in saying that i am a strong advocate of decoupling and liberalisation in the energy sector. but if we can generate more investment without compromising the competitive situation, then perhaps it is a good idea to do so. is the commission open to such an adjustment of the rules and how can this be done in practice?
i thank the commissioner for his reply. it is precisely one of the problems that a pension fund which is set up to manage the savings of employees can invest in both a production company and a distribution company. i am very glad to hear this clear, direct message, and i think it is very positive.
in writing. − i supported report a7-0248/2012 on enhancing intra-eu solidarity in the field of asylum because it contains an important critique of the current eu asylum system and stresses the need for change. however, my vote in favour of the report should not be seen as support for its call for further harmonisation at eu level within the field of asylum.
in writing. - on 11 september 2011, the danish social democrats in the european parliament (dan jørgensen, christel schaldemose, britta thomsen and ole christensen) voted in favour of the agreement at first reading between the parliament and the council on council regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 as regards the single payment scheme and aid to wine growers (a7-0203/2012), as the proposal was purely of an administrative-technical nature and therefore the aid to the proposal should not be understood as support for the common agricultural policy in general and for wine in particular. the proposal is thus intended to remove the bureaucracy of the present system.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the regulation on the internal market information system (imi), on which i was rapporteur for the liberal group. one of my aims in this work has been to make the imi system as user-friendly as possible. this is the way to ensure fair treatment for companies which need to have a case resolved in another member state. i have worked on the liberal side to make the system future-proof. this means, among other things, that there must be a good translation function so that the system is not only tailored to the current imi system but can also be extended to future legislation. we have succeeded in getting the commission to accept that they must always provide satisfactory translation functionality. in addition, i have been concerned about the protection of the data of the citizens and companies whose data is exchanged through imi. i am very pleased that we have now come to a flexible solution which takes account of what data is exchanged and who has access to it. i have also worked to ensure that companies and citizens can correct an error as quickly as possible if it turns out that the authorities have exchanged incorrect information.
in writing. − the alde group abstained on the final vote to show the concern with the missed opportunity of modernising the european online audiovisual sector and the lack of european solutions. especially paragraph 46 on buyout contracts was concerning and goes against the idea of contractual freedom. further the report on the online distribution of audiovisual works promotes status quo and points to changes of the structure of the cultural industry as negative. the digitalisation was mainly seen as a challenge and problematic for the industry, instead of a possibility to increase the content available and the people reached within europe.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. sustainability must be a leading criterion for the eu, whether fishing is in the pacific, the indian or the atlantic. however, for certain highly migratory fish stocks, sustainable management will require cooperation between the countries exploiting the resources. when some countries choose to increase their own quotas on their own, they are going beyond the resources on which we all depend and from which we all benefit. it is therefore important that the eu has general, effective and fair incentives to combat overfishing and to promote our common objective of healthy fish stocks everywhere in the world. the s&d group has been critical of measures which are both effective and applicable to international trade law. we have now, and it's a victory for sustainability.
mr president, i would like to thank you. our fishing industry is losing jobs, the marine environment and biodiversity are threatened. commissioner damanakis's move showed the way towards sustainable fishing in europe, but eu fisheries ministers agreed on a reform with a scary future for the sector, as it will, among other things, postpone msy to 2020. overfishing has led to 30% of jobs in the sector being lost over the last 10 years, but the introduction of msy from 2015 would give the fish stocks time to recover so that we can restore a greater number of jobs from 2020. the salavrakos report sends a strong signal to the council and the commission that we will not accept that short-term national interests are again prioritised. we need to reduce fleet capacity to a sustainable level. for the first time, the european parliament is a co-legislator on fisheries policy. so, ladies and gentlemen, take your responsibility seriously to ensure the future of fisheries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. with the free movement of persons and, of course, technological developments, crime has become increasingly transnational. there are no longer any borders for criminals, and therefore there should of course be no borders for our police, prosecutors and the protection of our citizens. if you are a victim of crime, you must of course have a number of fundamental rights, no matter where you are in europe. as a victim, you should always have the right to information, interpretation, legal assistance and, above all, protection against criminals. these rights are given to eu citizens as of today! but this is only one step towards a safer society for our citizens, and that is why we continue to fight for even stronger police cooperation.
in writing. - there are several positive elements in the report, for example in paragraph 10: 'i believe that the objective of achieving the maximum sustainable yield should be implemented immediately'. unfortunately, there was a rather narrow majority for the following wording in paragraph 9: 'levels close to those which produce the maximum sustainable yield', whereas in the interests of sustainability - to create a better future for industry and to ensure fish for consumers - we had wanted a wording which said that stocks should be restored to 'a level higher than those which produce the maximum sustainable yield'. we are working towards this in the forthcoming negotiations on the basic regulation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you for your 30 seconds of speaking time. in my view, the countries of the eastern part of the eu are in a very difficult situation vis-à-vis gazprom and russia. it is no secret that europe's largest energy companies have strong links with the political world. the position of these countries is therefore not always equally logical. in my view, the scary element is the current practice which undermines the single market. we should ensure that the european energy market is transparent and liquid. we must put an end to the practice of concluding agreements for gas pipeline projects with third countries, subjecting supply to rules which are incompatible with the rules of the internal market. it is to the detriment of consumers. nevertheless, i would like to urge all colleagues to vote in favour of the agreement because the agreement is better than the status quo. we'll have more transparency, and we'll have an audit clause that will make the deal look like a three-year deal.
in writing. the regulation implements the stabilisation mechanisms for bananas in the trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru. this means a gradual increase in the volume of imports of bananas to the european market. this is done gradually to protect the additional vulnerable producers in the eu who need to adapt to increased competition. the safeguard clauses are reciprocal, i.e. peru and colombia introduce similar clauses in their own legislation and in line with wto rules. we support the report's focus on labour and human rights and the monitoring of the regulation and stress that it is not clear how we will vote on the free trade agreement itself (see resolution b7-0301/2012).
the committee on culture and education has tabled an opinion. as the budget coordinator of the committee on culture, i am naturally pleased that the committee on budgets has taken on board all our priorities, or at least the vast majority of them. i am of course in agreement with the rapporteur and can declare that i agree that we need more europe, not less europe. that is why it is of course welcome that the committee on budgets is supporting lifelong learning, the 2013 programme which is central to the efforts to achieve growth in the 2020 strategy. we must of course continue to ensure that students, teachers and academics have the necessary mobility. these programmes are absolutely essential to ensure the growth we all need. it is therefore of course also very worrying that the council has decided to cut payments. that is almost absurd and a completely wrong signal in the situation we are in. as far as sports are concerned, we have a number of actions under way and there is still broad support for us to test these areas before we have a real sports programme in 2014, which is of course also very, very good. so thank you for that to the committee on budgets.
the committee on culture and education has tabled an opinion. - thank you, mr president. as a representative of the committee on culture, it has been my difficult task to call for the promotion of the areas it represents, namely youth, education and culture, and the cultural sector, in the middle of a time of austerity. fortunately, in our opinion we were able to rely on the commission and the commissioner in this area, who has put forward a very ambitious plan - an ambitious proposal - and we are of course pleased about that on behalf of the committee. it is about the programmes for education, training, youth and sport and the creative and cultural sectors, both of which, if all goes well, are likely to be given a boost here in the midst of a period of economic downturn, and this is of course also necessary if we are to achieve the necessary growth and contribute to the 2020 strategy. i should like to make an appeal to the member states today, who have also made a very good point about the commissioner's proposal and our support, but we must now see what the finance ministers say about it, and i should certainly appeal to the council to support us too when we come to the difficult negotiations on the budgetary question.
the alde group is not in favour of this. thank you, madam president! for the alde group, flexibility has been an important issue, but so have new own resources. we can see from the paper that came from the presidency yesterday that it also illustrates the fact that there are major problems with own resources. it's an opaque system, it's not a fair system. it should be changed, and a little something has been added to it. but i am a little concerned that the cypriot presidency is placing a lot of emphasis on net contributions. because that's the kind of thinking we need to get away from. the expenditure we put into the eu budget must reflect real needs and sound policies that we carry out at european level - not what is going to be returned to the member states. and that's a little bit of what's going to control it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's not supposed to be like this. in the paper by mr böge and mr kalfin we have six points on new own resources. what we are proposing is a procedure for coming up with a better system, and i would suggest that the council read these six points and take them up.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i do not think that anything is more revealing of the unreality and the unrealistic image that characterize members of the european parliament than the votes on the budget that we have just had here a few minutes ago. despite the fact that all the member states of the european union are being forced to cut back on their consumption, despite the fact that the court of auditors of the european union has for 16 years in a row declared that the way the eu is spending taxpayers' money cannot be approved, and despite the fact that the whole of the eu's spending of money is marked by fraud and swindling on a scale that would not be seen in any normal democracy, we are still seeing the vast majority here in the european parliament insisting on not just an increase, a moderate increase, an inflationary increase, but an increase of almost 7%. i hope that the vote we have had today, where most people have had to put their names to their votes, will be circulated on all the sites, on all the discussion forums around the eu, so that people can face up to who is fiddling with their money and who is just insisting on getting more.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the vote we had earlier today on the mff was probably the largest, perhaps not the most important, but the largest vote that we as members of the european parliament will ever have to deal with. around €1 trillion went through this room when we pushed the buttons and decided how the money in the eu should be spent from 2014 to 2020. it was interesting to see the protest in the chamber against the insistence of my group - the epp group - that individual votes should be what is called a roll call, that they should be public, that the citizens should of course be able to see who has voted what, when it is a question of 1000 billion kroner to be spent over a period of the next seven years, longer than any commissioner and any member of the european parliament will ever sit, without being accountable to the voters. it is telling to the way the european parliament and the eu system generally work that the further you can take decisions away from the citizens, the more secret it can be, the less you have to be held accountable for, the better. that is not worthy of democracy.
mr. chairman, please. the next report we have voted on here is on the own resources of the european union, and i would have voted no. not because of the changes in the details of how vat is collected from the member states, but because what we all know is that when we talk about own resources, the eu will not just be taking on the task of having the money sent in as a check once a year from the member states, but will have to put the money directly into the pockets of the citizens. some want it as a tax on aviation fuel, some want it as a direct vat, others want it as a direct tax on financial transactions. it is essential, whatever group you belong to, that if you support eu taxes, you remove the necessary link between being directly elected by the citizens and being allowed direct access to the pockets of the citizens. that link simply does not exist in the eu, because in the eu it is the commissioners who have the right of initiative, who make the proposals, who execute the decisions, and they have the privilege of not being elected by anyone other than themselves and then the government that has chosen to appoint them. the whole principle of own resources must therefore be abandoned. it doesn't belong in a place like the eu.
in writing. - the 2013 budget. we, the four danish social democrats in the european parliament (dan jørgensen, christel schaldemose, britta thomsen and ole christensen), have refused to support the decision on parliament's negotiating position vis-à-vis the council of ministers in the forthcoming negotiations on the 2013 budget. that is because we cannot support the wish of parliament to raise the budget to the level that has been agreed. and we do not support a number of budgetary elements such as the continued high level of support for agriculture and support for tobacco production.
in writing. - we, the four danish social democrats in the european parliament (dan jørgensen, christel schaldemose, britta thomsen and ole christensen), have refused to support the decision on parliament's negotiating position vis-à-vis the council of ministers in the forthcoming negotiations on the eu's multiannual financial framework (mff/mff), as we cannot support some of the measures contained in the report. we particularly do not support the continued high share of the budget allocated to eu agricultural aid. we are instead in favour of budget cuts and the prioritisation of resources for, among other things, education, research and green growth.
in writing. − overall, the delegation of powers to the commission to update the lists will streamline the process. it is a technical task and the speed of the procedure is an advantage both for industry and for safety. however, efficiency must not be at the expense of quality control. that is why we voted with alde, the greens and gue in favour of a number of amendments which have quality in mind. it is ex ante controls that increase transparency when granting export authorisations, more restrictive export authorisations, enhanced cooperation between member states and the prevention of cyber attacks. we would like the rapporteur to include these in the negotiations with the council.
in writing. - we support the postponement of the authorization for two years, as there is too much uncertainty about the control mechanisms for goods from the occupied territories (ep legal service). moreover, in line with the eu-israel association agreement and the treaty, respect for human rights and democratic principles must guide the eu's foreign policy action, including trade policy.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, thank you for the words you have spoken so far. i couldn't agree more. i have two comments on behalf of the alde group on this. first of all, there is the question of unpaid bills. where i come from, we pay our bills. there is no question of that. i simply do not understand this discussion about consistent under-budgeting, which the commissioner was also talking about. i think it's about time! we are in a situation where we are discussing this here every time, and the citizens simply do not understand this lack of logic, this consistent under-budgeting. bills to be paid! we are in a situation where the work is done, the money is given, and now the bill has to be paid. of course, our credibility as an institution is at stake in the payment of these bills. and this applies, of course, to the member states as well. secondly, we must also take into account that this extends beyond students. we are at a clear risk right now of students all over the member states either not getting grants, many of them not getting the grants they had hoped for, or having their grants cut. that is the situation we are in. it is not triviality, and it is not abstract but concrete reality for the young people it concerns. i would like to warn very strongly against taking this programme, which several speakers have highlighted as one of the most popular concrete programmes we have in the eu, hostage in a situation where there is a tactical game between institutions about this 'budget table' which is to be on someone else's shoulders. i would like to warn very strongly against young people being taken hostage, a popular programme being taken hostage. it is also a question of citizens' confidence in this project, and here at last is a project which is popular, which people understand and which we hear over and over across political lines is good for the eu. that's one of the reasons people understand that this project is something worth sharing. that's what's at stake. it is not just a question of a few random budgetary crowns; it is the whole confidence in the project. i would therefore strongly recommend to the council and the cypriot presidency that they urge their colleagues very strongly to put their money where their mouth is. thank you for speaking!
in writing. - i am voting for the report because it points the right way to the full implementation of the internal market. since the commission's report on the 20 biggest concerns in 2011, it has become clear that action was needed to directly address the concerns of european citizens and businesses about the single market. much is already being done to help businesses through the solvit network, which can help if problems arise for businesses with directives implemented differently in the member states. we are also ensuring that consumers have access to consumer complaints boards throughout europe and electronic access via the internet. and there's even more in the casting. the commission issued earlier this month the 'internal market act ii' which focuses on completing the digital single market because it holds the greatest untapped growth potential. there are still many areas to be addressed before we can declare the internal market fully completed, but the foundations have long been laid and with the report on the 20 major concerns we have a clear vision of where improvements can be made. that is why it is an important report which i have chosen to support.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. thank you for that. and thank you to the rapporteur for an excellent report. i think it has been a really good result, especially when you read it as a whole, including the input from all the different political groups. we in the green group see the semester as a great opportunity for europe to make a real coordination of our economic policies. perhaps we should also admit that we have not yet reached a genuine coordination. we are perhaps rather faced with some rather haphazard recommendations, which may also be based very much on what the member states are already doing. i think we have to get to the point where we use it as a real tool to also offset some of the imbalances that are making the crisis even deeper than it already is. the second thing we are very concerned about is that eu2020 is taken as seriously as our objectives when it comes to budgetary discipline. it must be taken as seriously as putting people to work and fighting poverty and protecting the environment. if we do not do this, we are saving the branch for our own future; we are saving the branch for tomorrow, and we cannot afford that in europe. i believe we should live by having the best educated people, having the most jobs, having the strongest environment. i think that's the key to competitiveness. i do not believe that we can have sound public finances without getting the eu2020 objectives right. i think these are important goals; they point to a good future for europe, and we must admit that the crisis is now so deep that it threatens our 2020 plan. in fact, many of the objectives are being misdirected, and i think it is important that we take this into account in these recommendations. that being said, i would say that there are a lot of good points in this report. thank you for bringing them! we attach particular importance to the 2020 reference points, to strengthening the role of the european parliament, to involving the social partners and civil society. it is important that we also look at tax evasion, that we not only look at deficit countries, but also look at surplus countries. these are some of the really important points that have been made, and thank you again to the rapporteur. it seems that we have found the flexibility necessary to be able to reach a unanimous vote tomorrow as well. and i'd like to sign off on that. thank you!
blue-card question. – very often one ends up in a discussion caught between austerity and overspending, but that is not worthwhile. what you were saying about the need to balance budgets is true, but at the same time you also need to ask yourself whether you can make quite severe cuts simultaneously in all 27 member states without having a damaging effect on growth in europe overall. that is the question we need to put. that is not coordination. what we have been doing in recent years is not clever. i understand that you could perhaps do it successfully in one country, but to invite a whole zone to do that all at once is dangerous, and it is damaging the 2020 targets. so we need a bit of balance. we need to consolidate and we need to look at the income side. i would just like to ask you if you agree that we need this more balanced approach.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, the alde group has long wanted the eu budget not only to provide grants but also to promote certain policies through loans and guarantees and through new financial instruments. we have been working towards this for many years and we are therefore very pleased with the communication from the commission. there are a lot of good ideas, and i think it is worth recalling that we in the european investment bank have a real success story - a real european success story. in these difficult times, it's good to remind each other that we have some of them, too. we need to raise more capital to carry out projects in areas as diverse as research, innovation and transport infrastructure. so there are very different areas where money can actually be raised through the markets using the eu budget, and we can - as many have pointed out - have a much greater positive effect on our competitiveness, on our growth, on our employment, and that is what this is all about in the end. the commission proposes a very wide range of instruments, and the commission is doing something right, but that is not to say that the new financial instruments can replace grants, that they can reduce the amounts in the eu budget to such an extent, and the commissioner has also stressed this. i would also like to highlight the example we have with project bonds, where we now have our pilot project under way - and i am glad to hear that - where eu guarantees will enable large transport and energy projects to finance themselves cheaply on the loan market through the issuance of bonds. such a loan market exists today in the united states, where pension funds and other institutional investors can put their money into infrastructure and thus have a safe liquid investment with a reasonable return. the idea behind the pilot project is that we can test: is there an interest in such a market in europe? we can get this started and in a few years we may have a market like the united states, so that we can overcome the problem of empty public coffers and the inability to finance transport infrastructure through public coffers. but not all types of projects will have that interest, so there still needs to be grants. i would like to say that we wholeheartedly support the commission's proposal; it is a limited expenditure in the eu budget and there is no risk that we will be liable for any additional money than is allocated to the budget, so it is just common sense. thank you!
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, first of all, thanks to erminia mazzoni for a good report, in which i would particularly like to emphasise the support for our ombudsman's desire to have not just a manual but a regulation where we live up to the promises we have made to citizens in the treaties and where we have to improve the whole process, and we need the eu institutions to now be able to stand as a model for all our member states. that is why we need a regulation. i would also like to thank you again for the clear support that the report gives, which was also very clear in diamandouros's review here: that what needs to be introduced now is the so-called service principle, that is to say the 'culture of service', in which the entire concern for the citizen is at the centre and in which the citizen is not regarded as an adversary from whom one must protect oneself but rather as one to serve. i have met too often in the commission the culture of the citizen as the enemy, and we must get rid of that. i was glad that mr šefčovič had said some nice things about it, but we do not live by words alone, we want deeds. and i would also like to stress in this context that it is absolutely the best way if we have competent officials with self-respect, because then we also have one of the best ways to fight corruption, because corruption is so closely linked with corrupt administrations, and administrations must be raised up in self-respect and openness, a transparent good culture. we need a good regulation. let me spend my last few minutes on something else: we have discussed the very high number of complaints for some countries, fewer for others. we see the same thing in the committee on petitions. let me say this: i think we should take it as a good sign if a country has active citizens who take part and come to us. it is not necessarily a sign that there is something very wrong with the society in question; on the contrary, one could praise the society and say: 'look, here is a strong civil society! it is not just a matter of getting rid of complaints, on the contrary: let us help one another. thank you, mr chairman! and thank you to mrs mazzoni!
in writing. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. we therefore also support paragraph 11, paragraph 7: the requirement that russia fully respect and enforce human and workers' rights and a commitment to implement international environmental standards - in dialogue with relevant stakeholders and civil society. it is also emphasized here as central to the further negotiations.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm not going to let you do this. we are having a very heated debate, but my country also has large quantities of shale gas underground in some places. linda mcevan said that only in england and poland have they done test drilling. no, france is also currently carrying out test drilling in denmark. the question is how to deal with this new energy source. on the one hand, shale gas offers an opportunity to achieve energy independence and the unconventional gas can replace conventional energy sources. on the other hand, we know from bitter experience that in many places drilling underground has caused serious damage to the surrounding environment and in particular to groundwater. it is therefore understandable, at least in my country, that potential neighbours of the drilling rigs do not feel very safe. but when we are considering together what forms of energy will constitute the future energy supply in europe, it is important that we think long term, because any damage will only become apparent after many years of drilling. it can be a volatile underground, as we have seen both in germany and in america, water pollution, environmental damage and costs to both people and animals. so we should not be blinded by short-term gains without considering the long-term costs. we should not think that shale gas will solve all our energy problems. we need to invest in a wide mix of energy sources, from gas from food waste to renewable energy and - in some countries - shale gas. we must adapt legislation in this area as quickly as possible and must have a boost in research and development to improve the safety of drilling to ensure that a new energy venture will not harm either citizens or the environment. it is also important that we ensure that it is up to individual member states to decide whether or not to allow the drilling of shale gas! we should not force countries to tell us what they can and cannot use!
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i would like to add my thanks to giles chichester for a good report. i do not want to repeat what my colleagues have said here, but simply to summarize that we must do much more to make this citizens' committee more known in the union, so that it is used. and thank you for bringing this to our attention. but i would like to focus on one thing which i know you, giles, have also been concerned about, namely the coastal law in spain. you write in the report in article 18 that we welcome spanish cooperation. you can't be serious! if you had seen what is now in the bill which is being pushed through the spanish parliament by an absolute majority, you would have said 'no, we will not do that!' and then you would - and i hope you will do so tomorrow - support our amendment no 5. that's the most important thing. but then there is amendment no 6, which explicitly points out that the current treatment of the coastal law is contrary to the spirit of parliament's 2009 report. it is not about protecting the coast and the nature of the coast. nor is it about giving individual homeowners and landowners better rights. in fact, the only people who get better rights because they get the law around them are big business. it is also doing so by legalizing all the countless violations of the coastal law in the past, which we both agreed were a violent assault on ordinary citizens. so let me say that i hope - and i will concentrate on that here, although it is not fair in relation to all the good things in your report, which we support - but i really hope that we can come together tomorrow to send a signal to spain. there are many indications that our working party will not be able to finish its work, will not be allowed to finish its work, before spain has adopted the law. and that is why tomorrow we have the chance to send our comment to spain, where we will say: 'not in the name of parliament!' not in my name either! they are using the auken report as a legitimation for the bill now before us. and so i really hope that you will join us in sending a clear signal to spain tomorrow, so that they can hear that they cannot in any case take parliament and the parliament's 2009 report, the auken report, for granted.
mr. chairman, please. we know that most countries are interested in paying as little as possible and getting as much as possible in return. we therefore risk that the common and forward-looking investments in research, education, transport and energy will be given less priority in the negotiations in the coming days. one of the most exciting proposals the commission has put forward is a fund for investment in transport and energy, the connecting europe facility. i think it is important to defend this innovative investment opportunity. mr daul mentioned that the baltic countries have good rail links to moscow. they must continue to do so, apparently, because we will not have a railway linking them to the rest of europe if there is no money in the connecting europe facility. the revenue side risks becoming even more byzantine and complicated than it is at present, and that is not what we need. we need a simple, fair and transparent system for the eu's own resources in the future, without special rules and discounts, and my group will attach great importance to the fact that we have a binding plan for this.
madam president, just to say we tried to remove the most controversial parts of amendment 6. i was very sad we did not control amendment 5 because i think we had the majority but we were not able to do this. amendment 5 was crucial in making this report acceptable.
madam chairman! i voted yes today. in the united states the price of gas is one fifth of the price of gas in europe, and therefore we must of course not exclude new forms of energy. there is no doubt that we must ensure that environmental conditions are right. i think we have heard the left today making scare campaigns in this area. i can tell you that this technique which is being used is not very different from the technique which is being used today and has been used for many years in the north sea where we are exploring for oil. it is the same technique that is used, and that is why we must not use scare tactics in this area. europe needs more energy supplies.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, a few days ago the world bank published a new report: not greenpeace, not friends of the earth, but the world bank. it concluded that science tells us that if we do not fundamentally change the way we consume and produce energy now, then we risk having a temperature increase of 4° within 60 years. four degrees! if that happens, the consequences will be severe. in some places they will be devastating. the poorest countries and regions of this world will see effects such as desertification, a rise in sea levels, mass migration and, in some places, perhaps even conflict and war. this means that the ambition to have a legally binding agreement in 2015, coming into force in 2020, is too late. it is not sufficiently ambitious. i know what you will say, commissioner hedegaard: that you agree with me, but that is what is possible. well, we cannot negotiate with nature, so if that is what is possible then we simply have to acknowledge that it is not the way forward. we need to do something different. what can we as the european union do? we cannot force other countries to follow us. we cannot force other countries to decrease their co2 emissions because we do not have the hard power to do that, but we have something different, namely soft power. we have the power to inspire and to lead. if we go further than the rest – if we show that we can be competitive at the same time as doing the right things to save the climate – then maybe that is the best thing to do. that is why our group argues that we should be more ambitious, so that in 2020 we will reduce our emissions by 30% instead of 20%, and in 2030 we will need an equally ambitious target. i hope you will take our advice, commissioner, and argue the same case in the council.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am very pleased with the broad agreement that this report has produced. this is a major step towards a more sustainable and sustainable fisheries. the report expresses the committee's support, by a large majority, for the much needed improvement in the control of salmon fishing in the baltic sea. the report supports the commission's proposal to manage all salmon fishing, including recreational and non-commercial fishing. we do so because the lack of control of this type of fishing has contributed to the salmon being overfished. there have been critics throughout the negotiation process who believe that this broad control is too far-reaching. i don't think it is. we must of course be aware of this, but i believe that in cooperation between the industry, the recreational fishermen, the commission and the member states, clever solutions can be found. for example, there is a whole new world of smartphones and internet-based reporting. the illegal salmon fishing is a very big problem and it will only be stopped if the member states take control seriously and the industry does not cheat. that is why those who cheat must take responsibility, so that the labelling of trout and salmon is not cheated. it undermines the whole effort to restore salmon stocks. the report has been long awaited, and i would therefore urge the council to enter into constructive negotiations on this so that we can have the necessary management of the whole salmon fishery.
mr. chairman, please. i'm not going to tell you. as we have five reports, i would like to concentrate on the removal of shark fins tonight, as a number of colleagues have done. one of the key principles of the fisheries reform is that we must stop discarding fish. of course, this principle must also apply to sharks. if you're going to catch sharks at all, you've got to land the whole animal. this means that fins cannot be removed from the body at sea, as others have said today, and of course shark meat can easily be used for many things, including animal feed, fishmeal and much more. the legislation on this point is too weak. it is therefore good that the commission is closing the loopholes in the law. thank you for that, commissioner! the council supports the proposal and we should of course do the same. it would be incredibly regrettable if parliament chose to take the proposal in the wrong direction. we have to do something right for once. the purpose of the amendment is, among other things, to stop the mistreatment of sharks. we should not be catching sharks for the finns, just as we should not be killing elephants for tusks.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. i would like to thank the president-in-office. in the gue/ngl group we support the call for the scandalous gender composition of the commission not to continue in the next term. if all the eu's equality talk is to be taken seriously, it must be reflected in a balanced gender composition. but i also think that the most positive thing has been said about the motion for a resolution we are considering. take, for example, the proposal that european political parties should nominate the candidate for the post of president of the commission. the question is, where did that idea come from? is this something that has been raised by the people of the european union? is that what is written on the banners carried by the protesters in athens, madrid and lisbon? - i know. it's a proposal from the top. we heard it from mr barroso, among others, who made it a big issue in his state of the union speech here in parliament. but real democracy, the development of democracy, comes from below. and if the european parties want to nominate candidates for the post of president of the commission, they can do so! it's entirely possible. they have the opportunity, whether barroso likes it or not. the problem of the enormous democratic deficit in the european union cannot be solved by presiding over and personalising the european political debate. instead, we need more democracy. that is why our group has proposed that member states should be encouraged to introduce electoral systems which ensure that political parties are represented in proportion to their size. for what kind of democracy is it that excludes sections of the population from political representation? we say, as the rebels of the american revolutionary war said, "no taxation without representation". unfortunately, this motion for a resolution does not reflect such clear democratic demands. we find this regrettable, because, as i said, the eu does not need more presidents, it needs more democracy.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. madam president, thank you to the court of auditors for a good report. unfortunately, as has been said, it proves that things are going in the wrong direction. from 2006 to 2009, the overall error rate of the eu accounts decreased to 3,3%. it was a good development. but since then, the failure rate has increased. in 2010 up to 3,7% and in 2011 up to 3,9%. it is also interesting to note that the number of errors in the transactions tested has increased significantly, from around 33% in 2010 to 40% in 2011. and that's not good enough! when things went in the right direction, the commission took the credit, and as i said at the time, i would like to give the commission that credit. but it also makes clear who is responsible when the error rate rises. since then, two years ago, the error rate has gone up two years in a row. and the commission cannot blame everyone else, because in the end it is the commission which is responsible for the money paid out of the eu budget. the next year will therefore be decisive. if we see an increase in the error rate for the third year in a row, it will be impossible for us members of parliament to defend it to our electorate. we can live with the fact that things are moving in the right direction, albeit slowly and from a far too high level. but we cannot live with it going the wrong way year after year. then the voters will punish us severely, and for good reason.
in writing. − management models based on fishing rights can be seen as measures to tackle overfishing and overcapacity. it is understood that this management model can reduce overfishing and overcapacity. we see this in denmark, for example, but it cannot be considered as the only measure, which is why the word 'the only' in paragraph j was voted for. it also supports the wording of point k, which emphasises that mandatory fleet reduction achieved solely through market instruments such as tradable fishing quota shares (tfcs) may lead to a greater presence of operators that are more competitive from a purely economic point of view, to the detriment of those operators and fleet segments that have less impact on the environment and create more employment (directly and indirectly). furthermore, it should be up to each member state to decide whether to introduce tfcs.
member of the commission. − madam president, on behalf of the commission i would like to thank mr arias echeverria, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and the european parliament as a whole for the work done on this report on the digital single market. this report spells out the urgency of investing in the digital single market in support of the digital economy in line with the commission’s strategy and the ambition of the european council. why is such urgency necessary? because the lack of a true digital single market could cost as much as 4.1% of gdp between now and 2020 – i.e. eur 1000 per inhabitant of the european union. savings from e-commerce, lower prices and greater choice are estimated at eur 11.7 billion for goods alone, or 0.12% of eu gdp. if eu commerce equated to 15% of total commerce, gains for consumers would be in the region of eur 204 billion. the commission – with vice-president kroes, commissioner barnier and myself working together – has set 2015 as the target date for the completion of the digital single market. the objective is two-fold, as reflected in the single market acts i and ii and the digital agenda. firstly, it is to establish a legislative, regulatory and policy framework that sends out the right signals for business investments while strengthening consumer trust and legal certainty, and secondly, to keep the digital single market on a solid political footing. i am happy to see that we are now progressing swiftly towards these objectives, in particular as regards four important fields including, first of all, e-commerce. important actions presented in the e-commerce communication have already been adopted, and require the full attention of parliament and council. i would mention the consumer agenda, the green paper on parcel delivery, the green paper on payments by card, via mobile phones and the internet, and the communication on on-line gambling. secondly, investment in the digital infrastructure of the single market. the commission, via initiatives taken by vice-president kroes, is working with a view to ensuring investment capacity moves towards the physical infrastructure of the digital market. the proposed connecting europe facility aims at investing eur 9.2 million in broadband and digital service infrastructure throughout the eu between 2014 and 2020. this proposal is now being examined in the budget negotiations for the seven years to come. digital public procurement enables public administrations to be in the driving seat in terms of drawing value from digital technology. we have proposed that procuring authorities shift to e-procurement by mid-2016. given the scale of public procurement in the european union, every 5% saved could return about eur 100 billion per year to european taxpayers. i hope that both parliament and the council will soon find a reasonable compromise on the issue of the calendar, so as to reap all the benefits of this legislation. as announced in the single market act ii, the commission also plans to adopt, by spring 2013, legislation on e-invoicing in order to make it standard for public procurement. finally, one last word about copyright. the commission has also taken significant steps in the field of copyright, which is another important aspect of the digital sphere. in particular, the commission is reviewing the copyright acquis to identify what aspects may need to be modernised and adapted to on-line challenges. we shall be in a position to draw conclusions in 2014 about what changes may need to be made to the acquis, and when. we look forward to working with the european parliament on these matters in the months to come.
the commission is not - madam president, i have to speak. i have to say, mr commissioner, good evening. the development of resistant bacteria in europe is exploding. new figures from the ecdc. resistant bacteria are travelling across borders, and the development is therefore a threat to the whole of the eu. in europe alone, bacterial resistance is responsible for more than 25,000 additional deaths annually, more than 380,000 cases of infections, more than 2.5 million additional days in hospital beds and healthcare costs of at least 1.5 billion euros per year; figures that will rise significantly in the coming years. the eu has been trying to solve the problems for a long time. during the swedish presidency in 2009, efforts were made to strengthen the development of new medicines. the european commission presented an action plan against the development of multidrug-resistant bacteria in november 2011, and during the danish presidency in spring 2012, the member states agreed to limit the consumption of antibiotics. so the paperwork's already been done. now we just need action! multidrug-resistant bacteria is a global challenge, involving many different sectors. this is why an ambitious overall solution is needed. my own-initiative report takes a holistic approach to the subject and is built around the following six key points: 1. second, we must prevent infections in general and prevent the emergence and spread of resistance. the third. the development of new antimicrobials and alternatives to known treatments is urgent, and it is very urgent! 4. not we urgently need the exchange of best practice and better monitoring and reporting. the fifth. communication and education. citizens, doctors, farmers and veterinarians throughout europe must be informed about when and how to use antibiotics and when it is not useful to use them. too many people in europe still expect antibiotics to treat a virus. the sixth. international cooperation on the subject should be strengthened. i am pleased with the strong support which the committee has given to the report. split votes and one separate vote have been requested, and i should like to say a few words about that. point 16: as regards point 16 and the split vote requested, i have some difficulty understanding it. but i suppose it has something to do with the fact that i come from a country where, as a veterinarian, you can't prescribe and sell medicines at the same time. paragraph 28, which is the following: with regard to paragraph 28, we have been informed that the proposal as it stands here may create problems in connection with existing legislation. food medicines already require a prescription in the member states. i therefore really want this item to be removed, but i expect that the subject will be examined in greater detail when the veterinary legislation is to be revised. point 43: i believe that the data collected should be publicly available, as they are important for doctors, veterinarians, research and prevention and not just for experts and authorities, as stated in the text. in my view, the eu should not be able to restrict the member states' possibilities for greater transparency in this area. finally, i would like to thank the committee on agriculture for its opinion, my colleagues in the committee on the environment for the many good amendments and, in particular, the shadow rapporteurs for their diligent work to achieve compromises. i hope that everyone will be able to vote in favour of the report. it is important that we send a strong signal to the commission that the action plan must be implemented. the individual member states must improve their legislation and the commission's proposals must be implemented. the citizens of europe have a right to good medicine and good health. it is our common future.
mr. chairman, please. i am sorry to add a little bit of gall to the euphoria that seems to be in this house about this agreement on a european patent. of course, it is good to have more effective rules and cheaper procedures. no one can object to that, but i am shocked that no one in this house, no one in the council, no one in the commission is at all reflecting on the concern expressed by a number of law firms and the danish bar association, among others, about the legal security problems that this agreement creates, namely in relation to forum shopping, that is to say that as a rights holder you can now drag people around in 27 different legal systems and force people to defend their patent, and if that fails you lose your patent, your protection in the whole of the eu. whereas in the past you could be taken to greece from denmark or romania or other countries and lose a case and then only lose your protection in greece or romania, today such a case will instead lead to you losing your protection throughout the eu. it is a serious challenge, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, and i think it is a pity that no one here is taking this challenge seriously.
in writing. - we, the danish social democrats in the european parliament (dan jørgensen, christel schaldemose, britta thomsen and ole christensen), voted on 11 december 2012 in favour of the report on completing the digital single market (a7-0341/2012), as we believe that the report focuses on important proposals for improving and completing the digital single market, as this is crucial to kick-starting growth in the eu. however, we reserve the right to apply articles 31 to 33 and recital g concerning the simplification of vat rates for digital goods and services, as the determination of tax and vat rates should remain within the competence of the member states.
mr. chairman, please. it is strange that we should have such a drama about next year's budget, because when you look at the figures, parliament was not that far from the council. we took over many of the council's savings in our proposal. we wanted more money for research and innovation, and that goes back to the old thinking we have in this parliament, namely that we do not think that the iter fusion energy programme should mean that savings should be made on other important research projects. but it was the whole issue of the council's unwillingness to pay the 2012 bills that finally brought us to the point where we were almost without a budget for 2013. i think it is important that we as a parliament were firm because we are pushing a problem before us and if we do not support the commission in this we end up putting the commission in a situation where you have to be creative in the wrong way by trying to avoid paying bills or sorting out bills. it's not dignified, and it's not legal. we have now found a solution, and we support it from the liberal group, but i think mr lewandowski is absolutely right that it is not perfect. unfortunately, we risk being in the same situation in the autumn.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, tomorrow we will take a decisive step towards a european tax on financial transactions. why is this proposal so important? i believe that this is so for three reasons: firstly, the ftt is a concrete instrument for changing the incentives in the financial sector from short-term speculation to long-term investment. secondly, the ftt is a method of raising revenue for some severely strapped european public coffers, and that is raising revenue from an otherwise under-taxed financial sector. thirdly, the ftt symbolises justice in relation to who pays the bill for the crisis. we are showing with this proposal that we politicians are not just asking citizens to contribute. we also ask the sector which has caused the crisis to contribute. the support of this parliament tomorrow for enhanced cooperation will not only be a formal endorsement, it will also be an important pat on the back for the coalition of countries which are now in the process of implementing the world's first international tax on financial transactions. our approval will also send a signal to those countries which are still hesitant to join, and hopefully it will be a step on the long road towards a global transaction tax. to the doubters in this house, i don't think there are many excuses left. the commission has already stressed that it will not damage the internal market and that it will respect those countries which do not wish to participate. finally, two specific requests concerning the content: we in the green group believe that it should cover the broadest possible base of financial actors and financial products and we believe that all gaps should be closed, including by following the european parliament's proposal to add the principle of issuance. the green group therefore very strongly advocates a european financial tax. i thank the rapporteur for the rapid procedure and let us get on with the introduction of this tax.
blue-card question. – the situation today is that at least eight european union member states already have put the financial transaction tax in place and that means that fragmentation is already here. your own country, the united kingdom, put in place many hundreds of years ago a stamp duty, the oldest tax in the uk, which is a sort of financial transaction tax. so my question is, how can you say that eleven countries moving forward is not a step forward compared to this very fragmented situation today?
i'm not going to let you do this. i am normally a polite man, but i simply have to say that your speech today is downright arrogant! it is downright arrogant and undemocratic to say to over a million european citizens who have signed a demand that we limit long-distance animal transport that their demands are irrelevant, that they are unscientific and based on mere emotion! it is arrogant to say to a majority that this parliament, which has signed a written declaration demanding that we change the rules on transport times, is indifferent to their demands! and what makes it really arrogant is that you refer to it as being unscientific - as if the rules that apply at the present time should be scientific! it goes without saying that they are not. it is possible that we cannot say that eight hours should be the limit for all species under all conditions, but everyone can see that the rules as they stand today are certainly not scientific, and this is not just something i am saying. the federation of veterinarians of europe, for example, agrees. my question to you, commissioner, is: are european veterinarians ignorant of the science? are they just driven by emotion or what? you should make a proposal to us to change these rules, commissioner!
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is only one thing i think that really needs to be established today before the council. it's "do something!" paragraph 3 of the excellent statement of monday says that 'act accordingly'. we have heard so many words; they have changed in strength, but nothing has happened, and what we can see is that the israeli government does not care about the eu at all! yesterday the foreign minister said that what the european union is doing now is comparable to the holocaust. i mean, excuse me! when we criticize hamas, i want to be part of it. so i think we should be aware that our partners there have gone completely over the edge, mocking not only us but also the holocaust. there's a lot of things that can be done. i don't want to stand here and tear this up, but we have to go beyond words. now we have to act, or else it will go wrong. all our friends in israel are asking us to do something. there are plenty of people in israel who know that this is our only chance to do something! in a few months, we could risk losing everything!
blue-card question. – mr van orden, i did not believe my ears. did you say that this parliament should condemn the call for the un bid? should we not be in favour of the most multinational, the most established rule of law we have in this world? should this parliament condemn it?
