the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. thank you for this amazing result. for most of you, i was the chairman of another group in this house until this election. the great confidence you have placed in me today, however, honors me. i will do my utmost to ensure that i do not disappoint you and that our parliament has a strong voice! i want to exercise my office as president of parliament in such a way that those who elected me today can make their choice with confidence and that those who did not vote for me will be positively surprised. i will be, and i want to be, the president of all the deputies, and i want to defend your rights! (applause from the centre) i would like to begin by thanking you, mr president buzek. you were the first president of an eu institution that emerged from the freedom movements of eastern europe, and your election and your tenure symbolized the victory and triumph of democracy over dictatorship! in the dignity with which you have represented this house, you have documented the unity of europe as no one has done before you. thank you very much, jerzy buzek. (parliament adopted the resolution) it is with humility that i take this office today. europe is going through a turbulent period. for many people in europe, these are hard times. my parents were part of a generation whose motto was, 'let our children do better than we do.' and we are better! but we no longer have the certainty that our children will one day be as well off as we are. the economic crisis has led to an increase in poverty in many countries and to dramatic unemployment, especially among young people. you, the young people, are protesting in the streets of europe against an economic system in which the profits are reaped by a few and the losses are borne by the general public, a system in which the impression has been created, especially in recent days, that anonymous rating agencies in new york are more powerful than democratically elected parliaments and governments. the commission has already done so. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this crisis of confidence also threatens faith in the european project. many people are suspicious of our work. they don't know if what we're doing is right. we must be clear that people in europe are less interested in institutional debates, they are much more concerned about their jobs, their pensions, social justice. they are concerned about healthy food and a clean environment. we must try to listen to these people carefully, or better still, listen to them! the european parliament is the place where the interests of the citizens of europe are represented. we are sitting here, the representatives of the european people. that 's why i say: the citizens who have voted for us by direct vote expect - and rightly so - that we will fight for their cause. i know and i am proud that all the colleagues in this house see themselves as advocates of their constituents. i thank you all for that. but for the first time since its foundation, the failure of the european union is becoming a realistic scenario. for months the union has been rushing from one crisis summit to the next. decisions which affect us all, every single person in this room, every single citizen, are made by the heads of government, time and again, behind closed doors. i think this is a throwback to a long-lost era in european politics: it reminds me more of the time of the congress of vienna in the 19th century. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the post-war europe, on the other hand, is based on the sober realisation that our interests can no longer be separated from those of our neighbours. it is based on the understanding that the eu is not a zero-sum game, where one must lose in order for another to win. it's the other way around: either we all lose or we all win. (applause from the centre) the basic rule for this is the community method. and that's not a technical term. the community method is the soul of the european union! what does that mean, exactly? in practical terms, this means resolving conflicts through dialogue and consensus. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full part in the development of the union. the community must be able to cope with the balance of interests between small, medium and large states, between north and south, between east and west, and above all to put the common good, the good of the community, above the particular interests of individuals. that is the purpose of european unification. and this has been a matter of course and a successful endeavour for many decades. but this community project has taken a hit. in the last two years not only has the view of the problems changed, but also the way in which they are tackled, because the vertigo, the inflation of the summits and the fixation on the meetings of the heads of government have largely excluded the only directly elected body of the community, the european parliament, from the decision-making process. in fact, the colleagues in the national parliaments are also being demoted to the status of assistants. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the result of a policy with insufficient parliamentary legitimacy is perceived by the citizens as a dictate from brussels. and that is precisely what is causing all of us, the whole eu, to pay the price. we are creating a breeding ground for anti-european resentment through this process. and i hope that the european parliament will not stand by and watch! if you think you can create more europe with less parliamentarism, i am calling for a fight here and now, and i hope i can join you! (parliament adopted the resolution) the intergovernmental agreement on a new fiscal union is a first test case. the negotiations were initially a losing battle between the representatives of our parliament, mr verhofstadt, mr brok, mr gualtieri and mr cohn-bendit, and the demand from our parliament that budgetary discipline be combined with growth and employment. it is moving somewhat with pressure from the european parliament. i hope it moves more. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and so, in order to make this happen, i expect us to be at the euro summits as a parliament! it is not possible that all the institutions will be invited, only the european parliament will be excluded. (applause from the centre) europe is a community of values. we demand that candidate countries strictly adhere to the copenhagen criteria. i think parliament must work to ensure that democracy, fundamental rights and freedoms are respected and applied in the member states as a matter of course. anyone who violates the values of our charter of fundamental rights must expect our resistance. we have a common duty as a parliament to do this. and so let me add to the present. we will have a controversial debate tomorrow on the situation in hungary. prime minister orbán has informed the president of parliament that he intends to present his views to the european parliament tomorrow. i have consulted the chairmen of the political groups and those whom i have not yet been able to consult will be consulted. i think we should do that. we should accept mr orbán's request. if the danish presidency agrees, he should come here tomorrow and give his views. because that's exactly what i'm talking about. the european parliament must be the place where the controversial debate on the situation in europe takes place. that is why i think it is good that prime minister orbán comes tomorrow. i would also like to see the results that the commission is going to present here discussed in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs in such a way that the opposition and civil society in hungary also have a say. but a step in the right direction is to make sure that a head of government in the eu shares our views. the place of controversy about european policy is here: the european parliament! (applause from the centre) i see my role as president of parliament, as president of one of the three central eu institutions, as opposing the continuing trend towards this fixation on summits and this renationalization. i want to help make parliament more visible and more audible as a place of democracy and the controversial debate - as i said - about the direction of eu policy. we must give our words more weight. the most important thing is that we negotiate on an equal footing with the european council: whether it is the financial perspective, the reform of agricultural, fisheries and regional policy, the fight against climate change, financial market legislation, justice, home affairs - parliament has also been given enormous additional responsibility in trade policy. the lisbon treaty has been in force for two years, and we as representatives of the people have not yet fully exploited its potential. the use of our real powers - even in conflict if necessary - must be our common goal. but to increase the visibility of parliament, we also need to deal critically with the first reading agreements - i call them the 'hair-back' procedure! we also need to have a discussion about our own work. (applause from the centre) all of this can only work if we also put our own house in order. i will ensure, with the help of our administration, that the parliamentary bodies and all members of parliament will find in this house the framework they need to fulfil our legislative tasks to the best of our ability. i'm not going to be a comfortable president. i will be a president who defends the executive's respect for parliament when necessary, who intervenes when the interests of citizens are threatened. a president who represents strong members who are committed to the concerns of their citizens! a president who will do everything to regain the people's lost confidence in the european integration process. yes, i will try to reawaken the enthusiasm for europe! many people have risked their lives, too many have given their lives to defend parliamentary rights and parliamentarism. the first freely elected president of the tunisian constituent assembly, mustapha ben jaafar, looks to the parliaments of europe, and in particular to the european parliament, with his colleagues who are just beginning to gain experience in parliamentary life. in libya, where a despot was waging war against his own people, the eu was the first to open an embassy, giving hope to the people in a difficult situation. at the sakharov prize ceremony a few weeks ago, a courageous young blogger and a heroic anti-gaddafi moved us with her fascination for european values. in the middle east we are all asked again and again how europe has managed to turn enemies into friends and how we have managed to grow together across national, religious and ideological differences into this one europe. the further one moves away from europe, the better one talks about europe. let us work together to bring back this enthusiasm for european unification to europe. europe is a fascinating idea - an idea that emerged as the second half of the 20th century's response to the first half of this century. what was the first half of the 20th century like? the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and i am sure that the european parliament will be a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. in the second half of the 20th century, european unification and common institutions brought europe the longest period of prosperity and peace in its history. in 1989 the iron curtain fell. germany was reunited. in 2004 and 2007, former warsaw pact states joined the eu, restoring the cultural and political unity of this continent, which had been artificially divided for 40 years. what a successful project! why have we forgotten to be proud of it? why do we allow this unique historical achievement to be maligned? my grandfather fought in the first world war. twenty years later, my father was drawn into a war that set the world ablaze by hitler's criminal regime. i grew up in a small town in a tri-state area where people had to wait in long lines at the borders to visit their neighbors in holland and belgium. we have overcome war and hunger. we opened the borders. we have condemned racism and xenophobia and anti-semitism. we are living in a free and open europe, a europe that can be proud of its cultural diversity. let us now prepare this europe for the 21st century so that it can once again become a promise for the young generation, for our children and their children, of an economically strong, socially just, free and democratic european home. this is our common task! (applause from the centre)
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats, i would like to congratulate you warmly on your election as president of this house. i want to tell you that our group is honoured that a distinguished member such as yourself is guiding us in this next stage in this parliament at a time - as you have said and mentioned - of many problems, many threats and many risks for europe and for parliament itself: risks to fundamental rights, the problem of unemployment, the economic and social crisis, and also the risk that this parliament will lose weight because of this intergovernmental drift. but i believe that precisely because we are in a difficult time, we need people who have special qualities; people who have great capacity and european conviction; people who have a great fighting spirit, and people who have a great passion to lead a project. and, dear president, you are a person who meets these qualities. i have had the opportunity to work with you for some time and i know what i am talking about, and i think it is an opportunity that we start this presidency in the face of all these conflicts so that we are able - by your leadership of this parliament - to recover a course for this europe that is sailing a little adrift. today you are no longer the president of our group, today you are the president of all the people in this house, but i want to remind you that what is at stake and what will always be at stake is to build a more united, more democratic, more just europe for the people and not for the merchants. and i want to tell you that in this objective you will always find us by your side. good luck and good work!
mr. president, congratulations on your appointment. the council of ministers has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. a strong message needs to be sent to the markets. so far, they're responding well to the measures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we must maintain and continue to consolidate our efforts to promote stability and to continue to pursue austerity, but this must be accompanied by other measures that generate growth and, therefore, employment. austerity alone will not get us out of this crisis. we need to make reforms happen, not just discuss them. spain is showing that it is fully committed to this idea. we therefore support the structural reforms which must be undertaken by the member states. the european central bank is showing courage in its decision-making, but it must show a clearer commitment by more active participation in the secondary debt markets. in addition, common financial mechanisms, which have been the subject of much debate in this house, must be put into effect.
in writing. − in favour. as our co-chairman, mr cohn-bendit, stated during the debate, i feel that the proposed intergovernmental agreement has created more questions than it answers in terms of responding to the euro crisis. the agreement is useless and is not needed for the eu to be equipped with tools to deal with the financial and sovereign debt crises, as the drafting process for this agreement and the markets’ response have underlined. the draft agreement, with its one-dimensional focus on fiscal contraction, fails to deliver a convincing economic response to the immediate crisis. we will only draw a line under this crisis through a comprehensive response. this means accompanying measures on fiscal restraint with measures to guarantee the long-term economic viability of the euro area and its members. more specifically, it implies providing an effective firewall in the short-run and introducing eurobonds, a financial transaction tax and a meaningful sustainable growth and employment strategy as soon as possible.
mr president, although some people may lose sight of this, the european union is not just about markets and finance, but above all it represents values and principles. and so the crisis in the european union is not just about the euro and its governance, but also about its values and principles, which are threatened by uncertainties and fear, which are fuelling anti-european reactions and a resurgence of nationalisms. but europe was not built by the confrontation of nationalisms but, on the contrary, by a supranational effort to subject it to a law binding on all member states and to which no member state is immune. so when the european institutions express concern about the hungarian reforms, they are giving voice not only to the 500 million europeans represented in this parliament but also to the 10 million hungarians represented in this parliament in terms of their rights as european citizens. there is nothing against hungary - certainly nothing against the hungarian people, not even anything against the government, which has been voted at the ballot box - but a concern for the rights of hungarians as european citizens, and the need for this parliament to express that democracy is not only the rule of the majority, but also the protection of minorities, not only ethnic and religious, but political minorities who have the right to alternate in government. furthermore, democracy also includes an independent judiciary and the power of the constitutional court to control the laws of the legislature; and a judiciary in which the allocation of cases is governed by the judge predetermined by law, in no case with political interference; and the guarantee that citizens have the right to privacy, with authorities independent of political power, and that information rights are expressed in information pluralism so that there can be a contrast of opinions and democratic principles can really develop. and i think that those of us who represent 500 million citizens in this european parliament have the right to hear from the hungarian prime minister a commitment to reaffirm those values which are those to which hungary subscribed when it ratified the union treaties seven years ago. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
answer to a blue card question. mr president, in speeches of a minute or two there is no room to detail which articles of a constitution or legislation are worth discussing, but what i did understand from mr szájer's speech is that he is, precisely, willing to have the new hungarian constitution seriously examined. and that is what i believe is in the initiative that is being discussed in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, precisely to activate article 7 of the teu, which would give the opportunity to review whether the hungarian constitution actually complies with the constituent principles of the union and, if not, for this parliament to take a decision.
mr president, after the climate change conferences, which have been held since 1995, it can be said that they are doomed to failure as they are conceived. the aim is to reach a global agreement and, moreover, to reach it by consensus, an aspiration which is impossible to achieve because of the very different productive, economic and social structures of the states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on the other hand, climate change is also hiding deep-seated problems in societies, such as their development and educational models, social differences, poverty, etc. if they all want to be brought to these summits, the difficulties in reaching these agreements will increase, especially if, as is the case, they become large fairs, large international exhibitions, with thousands and thousands of participants. the european union must keep its environmental flags flying, and commissioner hedegaard did that very well in durban. for that, my congratulations. these summits, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, would need greater coherence between the states, more diplomatic work and less festival display.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to thank my colleague mrs patrão for having defended against all odds the timeliness of this resolution which we are debating today and which we shall then vote on. mrs patrão has had to overcome many obstacles with the support of the ppe group, and i would like to congratulate her on the work that has brought us to this day. ladies and gentlemen, fifty years ago the farmer received 50% of the final price paid by the consumer; now, however, in many cases, he receives less than 10%. at the same time, in 20 years, the distribution chains have gone from having a 21.7% market share to 70%. something's going on, and it's obvious. measures must be taken to make the food distribution chain more equitable, more equal, more just. firstly, we must improve the safety nets provided by the common agricultural policy to ensure these appropriate prices; we must have a community framework to ensure balanced relations and to prevent abuse; we must standardise and prohibit abusive practices in these trade margins; we must concentrate production by encouraging producer, farmer and livestock organisations; and we must ensure a level playing field for all producers, with equal opportunities and equal obligations - and i am referring to those producers outside the european union who do not meet the same standards of quality, food safety, livestock welfare and all those things which are so necessary that we force our producers to meet them. where do we do all this? well, in the next reform of the cap. we must improve contractual relations in this reform of the cap. the aim is to improve the position of the primary sector within the chain; to improve the commercial policy of distribution; to prevent the constant increase in food speculation; to take account of and improve those margins which are causing an increase in non-agricultural costs; and, finally, to assure producers that all products on the union market meet the same quality standards.
madam president, commissioner, this is not the first time we have discussed the imbalances in the food supply chain and, always, whether we are talking about agricultural inputs or about the final product, the weak link is the primary producer. we are now in the midst of a debate on the reform of the cap, and the main concern of the sector is the serious problem of prices. production costs are increasing and cannot be passed on to prices. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of agricultural products, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to ensure that the quality of agricultural products is not affected by the price pressure. in this connection, i would like to stress the need for the commission to adapt its scope and application in agricultural matters so that producers or their inter-branch organisations can effectively improve their negotiating position.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mr aldo patriciello, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on a space strategy for the european union serving the citizen (2011/2148 (ini)) (a7-0431/2011).
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i consider space policy to be a priority of my mandate as commissioner, both in terms of the services that can be provided and are already being provided to the citizens of our union, and because i consider the industrial and business sector - because there are thousands of small and mediumsized enterprises operating in this sector - to be at the heart of what i call the third industrial revolution, that is to say, the industrial policy that can enable europe to focus on growth and development based on the internal market and therefore the real economy. i am grateful to mr patriciello for the work he has done with his colleagues and i am grateful to the whole of parliament, mr prodi, for the strong support for the commission's policy. we are in perfect harmony when we call for a truly competitive space policy for our european union. i said, important results in the last few months have been obtained. egnos is now operational. we launched the first two operational galileo satellites in october from kourou in french guiana. on the day of launch i opened the procedure for the purchase of eight new satellites and on 1 february i will announce the results of the tender for the purchase of more galileo satellites. the timing of this meeting, the respect of the forecasts, has enabled us to save some 500 million euros compared with the forecasts made at the beginning of 2011, also in the face of the interinstitutional group, also in the face of this parliament in the document on space policy that we presented. well, galileo is moving forward, it is my intention to make the galileo services operational by the end of 2014 and have the complete system with 30 satellites, trying to save as much as possible and keeping to the time by the end of 2020. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for the implementation of galileo in the proposal for a financial perspective which we have submitted to parliament and the council, we are foreseeing investments of some 7 billion euros. this is for implementation, about 1 billion and something for launching all the satellites and the rest for maintenance and full implementation of services, taking into account that the savings will be, once galileo becomes operational, of about 90 billion euros. i also received mr patriciello's message on gmes. the commission has adopted a communication, it has made a proposal, we believe that we must move forward with regard to gmes, but we have proposed the establishment of an ad hoc financing fund outside the community budget, but within the union, that is to say, through a specific agreement between the 27 member states. i also raised this issue at the last space council, and i spoke about it at the competitiveness council. why did we make this proposal? because we know what the budget situation is. the european commission and this parliament would have liked more ambitious choices by the member states as regards the budget, but unfortunately the response has not been what we expected and what we hoped for. we have come to a conclusion which unfortunately means that we cannot include all the actions we want to carry out between 2014 and 2020 in the union budget. that is why, beyond the conviction of the importance of gmes in the context of a european space policy, i would like to remind you that gmes also enables us to strengthen our international links. i am pleased to note that the commission has already signed a number of agreements with latin american countries on space policy. we have worked a lot with the african union during the belgian presidency and we are continuing to work a lot with the african union on space policy, on gmes, on earth observation. however, as things stand, there are budgetary problems. hence the choice of the commission. i must say that we believe so much in the european space policy that in the financial perspective we have decided, in the great package of 80 billion euro for research and innovation, to invest not a little for research and development in the space sector. so an added value that we want to give to the whole space policy. we need your support for this strategy and i think that the speeches which followed mr patriciello's report all go in this direction and i believe that cooperation between the european parliament and the commission on space policy in the coming weeks, months and years will always be strong and i believe we can all aim at the same objectives.
this closes this spot. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mr salvatore caronna, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on how to avoid food waste: strategies to improve the efficiency of the food chain in the eu (2011/2175 (ini)) (a7-0430/2011). i would like to say to you, mr caronna, that this morning at least the television in my country has broadly reported on the point we are now going to deal with and i imagine that this will also have been the reality in other european countries. so we are entering a subject which has been brought into the public eye as it is seldom done in our debates.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i see mr swoboda sitting in his seat. i want to wish him well in his new position. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr caronna, and the members of the committee on agriculture, the committee on the environment and the committee on the internal market for this report. i also thank them on behalf of mr ciolos, the commissioner responsible for agricultural policy, who is in dublin to present the common agricultural policy in ireland. given the negative effects, particularly on the environment and food security, the issue of food waste is clearly attracting increasing attention. in this context, i would also like to mention the conference held in the european parliament on 28 october 2010. what can we do at union level? the commission has already adopted several proposals and is working on others which will help to tackle the problem of food waste at different levels. i have already mentioned the reform of the cap, which is mainly concerned with the production and processing stage of the agri-food chain. existing measures, which will help to strengthen the sustainability of the agricultural sector, for example agri-environmental programmes, will be maintained. others will be set up to respond to other recommendations in the report, such as the possibility of including thematic sub-programmes in rural development programmes to support small farms and promote the creation of short supply chains. it's the food miles. the commission is also developing a european innovation partnership on agricultural productivity and sustainable development, which aims to promote sustainable agriculture that delivers more with less. the high-level forums on improving the functioning of the food supply chain, which we discussed earlier this morning, are also working on the issues of optimising food packaging and limiting food waste to a maximum. the commission uses platforms such as the european retail forum on sustainability, the european roundtable on sustainable food production and consumption and an informal network of member states to address the issue of environmental sustainability. on 20 september, the commission also set out a roadmap for a resource-efficient europe, which aims to transform the european economy into a sustainable system by 2050. it shows that food is one of the key sectors that can help us achieve our resource efficiency objectives. the roadmap sets the ambitious target of halving food waste in the eu by 2020 and reducing resources in the agri-food chain by 20% by the same date. this is one of the recommendations in the report. the roadmap also calls for the development of a communication on sustainable food in 2013 to advance this complex issue in a coherent and concrete way. it also advocates the development of a methodology, based on sustainability criteria, for the main food commodities by 2014. in recommendation 35 of your report, you ask the commission and the council to declare 2013 the 'european year against food waste'. my colleague, commissioner dalli, has discussed this possibility with your rapporteur, because everyone generally agrees that something must be done to combat food waste throughout the agri-food chain. the date of 2013 is premature, firstly because the commission proposed last august to designate 2013 as the european year of citizens, and secondly because it takes about two years to fully prepare all aspects of a european year. if, as i have understood in this debate, we are talking about 2014, it could be possible. i will pass the message on to my colleagues ciolos and dalli because i think we can work together towards this goal. i would like to thank all of you and the president for this very interesting and very important debate for all of us.
this closes this spot. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
in writing. − in favour. the aim of the proposal is to amend regulation (ec) no 810/2009 establishing a community code on visas (visa code) with a view to clarifying the rules governing transit through the international zone of airports and so guaranteeing legal certainty and transparency. regulation (ec) no 810/2009 has been in force since 5 april 2010. in accordance with the visa code, instructions on the practical application of the provisions of the regulation have been drawn up by means of the commission decision establishing the handbook for the processing of visa applications and the modification of issued visas, which was adopted on 19 march 2010. during the process of preparing the handbook, it was noted that the wording of article 3(5)(b) and (c), concerning exemption from the airport transit visa (atv) requirement, was unclear. as the handbook cannot impose legally binding obligations on member states, the visa code must be amended to guarantee legal certainty and the harmonised application of the rules. clarification of this kind is of practical importance for individual travellers and for airlines.
in writing. − in favour. the european union (eu) and georgia have concluded an agreement aiming at mutually protecting the geographical indications (gis) and covering a wide range of agricultural products such as cheeses, oils and fats, bread and pastry, fruit, vegetables, cereals, fresh meats and meat products, fresh fish and seafood, wines, spirits and beers. this agreement is a step taken by both partners as foreseen in the partnership and cooperation agreement which entered into force on 1 july 1999. it has been made possible by the accession of georgia to the world trade organization (wto) in 2000. it has been described as a bilateral agreement for the protection of gis which is the first of this kind with a partner from the european neighbourhood.
in writing. − in favour. the world forum for harmonization of vehicle regulations (wp.29) of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) offers a unique framework for globally harmonised regulations on vehicles with participants coming from all over the world, especially the main motor vehicle producing countries. the benefits of such harmonised regulations are tangible in road safety, environmental protection and trade. wp.29 is a permanent working party in the institutional framework of the united nations with a specific mandate and rules of procedure. it works as a global forum allowing open discussions on motor vehicle regulations. any member country of the united nations and any regional economic integration organisation, set up by country members of the united nations, may participate fully in the activities of the world forum and may become a contracting party to the agreements on vehicles administered by the world forum.
in writing. − in favour. international aviation relations between member states and third countries have traditionally been governed by bilateral air services agreements. the eu court of justice ruled in 2002 that national designation clauses in the bilateral agreements infringe eu law. they allow a third country to reject, withdraw or suspend the permissions or authorisations of an air carrier that has been designated by a member state but that is not substantially owned and effectively controlled by that member state or its nationals. this has been found to constitute discrimination against eu carriers established in the territory of a member state but owned and controlled by nationals of other member states. this is contrary to article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union which guarantees nationals of member states who have exercised their freedom of establishment the same treatment in the host member state as that accorded to nationals of that member state. there are also further issues, such as competition, where compliance with eu law should be ensured through amending or complementing existing provisions in bilateral air services agreements between member states and third countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour. the memorandum of cooperation (moc) aims to formalise and enhance relations and cooperation between the eu and the international civil aviation organisation (icao). it was signed on 28 april 2011 in montreal and on 4 may 2011 in brussels and has been applied provisionally since then. by letter of 16 june, the council submitted to parliament its draft decision to conclude the moc. parliament is entitled to give its consent to the conclusion by means of a single vote, in accordance with rule 81 of the rules of procedure. no amendments to the agreement itself may be tabled.
in writing. − i voted in favour. we (greens) supported all the points adopted in plenary. we pushed particularly for the collection targets to be based on actual waste quantities arising; for retailer take-back (i.e. for big distributors to take back weee without any purchase obligations for the consumer); and for more effective checking of used eee to ensure that all used eee earmarked for sending to non-oecd countries is fully functional – so as to end illegal exports of weee to non-oecd countries – while allowing shipments to independent third parties for shipment within the eu (our compromise proposal having been adopted in committee at second reading). we were the only ones to make proposals on nanomaterials: we failed to get information requirements for producers on nanomaterials in eee, but we managed to have the commission assess whether selective treatment is necessary for nanomaterials in eee.
in writing. − i voted in favour. it was key for us (greens) to add to and strengthen the exclusion criteria, and to introduce national safeguards to modify the conditions of use of authorisations (under both mutual recognition and central authorisation). we were the driving force for specific provisions on nanomaterials, clear information on treated goods and the application of the regulation shortly after its entry into force: we influenced the negotiations very significantly on all aspects. while we abstained in the plenary vote at first reading due to certain concerns (about extending the central authorisation procedure while cutting back on scientific rigour and resources for the european chemicals agency), we resolved those issues in the second-reading agreement, which represents the best possible outcome.
in writing. − in favour. in its resolution of 7 september 2010 on ‘fair revenues for farmers: towards a better functioning food supply chain in europe’, parliament adopted a number of recommendations to solve problems downstream of farm production in order to improve farmers’ incomes. parliament suggested substantial policy change in eu competition law and made recommendations for measures to be included in the legislative proposals on cap 2020 reform. the commission adopted, on 23 november 2010, a follow-up note on this resolution, which announces action in this matter. this new initiative report identifies problems upstream of farm production, focusing on rising costs of purchased farm inputs over the past decade in the fields of energy, machinery, compound feed, fertilisers, pesticides, seeds, and water. it points to the impact on several production sectors, highlights the growing dependence of farmers on an increasingly concentrated input industry, and suggests measures to be taken within the upcoming cap reform.
in writing. − in favour. the negotiating position of the greens was based on the commission communication of 28 october 2009 entitled ‘a better functioning food supply chain in europe’ (com(2009)0591), since it recognises the existence of major power imbalances among operators, although believing that the measures suggested in that communication are not sufficient to deal with the problems involved; that is why we (greens) wanted to call on the commission and member states to urgently address the problem of unfair distribution of profits within the food chain, especially with regard to adequate incomes for farmers; recognises that to stimulate sustainable and ethical production systems farmers need to be compensated for their investments and commitments in these areas; emphasises that power struggles must give way to cooperative relationships;
in writing. − abstention. the greens abstained in the final vote because of the rejection of two key amendments, as well as the greens’ amendment on the detailed costs and specifications that need to be provided by the commission before parliament should commit to continue to fund galileo. the decision not to vote against was taken because the greens co-signed and supported most of the 22 compromise amendments, which included nearly all of the text proposed by the greens.
in writing. − in favour. food waste has assumed such proportions that it can be regarded as a global problem that is reflected right along the food supply chain, from the field to the fork. it is estimated, based on data gathered since 1974, that food waste around the world has risen by 50%. waste occurs on farmland, in the processing industry, in distribution companies and in consumers’ homes; there is waste in industrialised countries and in developing countries. this squandering of food generates an industry parallel to the production industry and causes a whole series of negative externalities. the issue of food waste conflicts with the fundamental problem of food supply, which is seriously compromised by a number of factors, including limited natural resources as compared with the growth in the world population and the meagre access of the poorest population groups to food. hence, there has been a series of analyses and deliberations on the use we make of the food available to us.
mr president, it is regrettable that this is not the first time that voices of dissatisfaction with the council's conclusions have been heard in this parliament, but it is even more regrettable that it will certainly not be the last, because it is again guilty, first of all, of partiality. because it is partial to focus only on the deficit and to devote as stimulus only the reallocation of absolutely insufficient resources to meet the objectives of re-stimulating growth and job creation. but it is also insufficient to call fiscal union what is only a budgetary union, a budgetary constraint which, moreover, is only encouraged by the imposition of sanctions, in no case by incentives. it is biased because it evades this parliament, because it seeks to avoid, through an intergovernmental treaty, the reform that is needed to make the european central bank what the european economy needs. so it will not bring the patient out of the coma in which he is; on the contrary, the patient's health will continue to deteriorate.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, i would like to refer to the case of the newspaper el universo from ecuador. the facts are known: the president of the republic has filed a criminal complaint for a crime of opinion against the author, the newspaper and the owners. this lawsuit has resulted in a three-year sentence in two instances and a $40 million fine, which seriously threatens the paper's very viability. this fact has been referred to by various organizations, such as human rights watch, reporters without borders and other media and international bodies related to human rights. the question, mrs ashton, is very simple: do you know these facts? and what opinion do they merit?
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − i would like to thank mr salafranca sánchez-neyra for giving me notice of this question. i am very grateful to him. indeed the eu delegation is following extremely closely. we know that the usd 40 million fine that has been imposed on the newspaper would put it out of business. as you have rightly pointed out, the facts that lie behind this case are of concern to us. freedom of the press, freedom of the media is something that i know that people in this house feel very strongly about. it is something that is absolutely at the heart of our european values and therefore we are watching closely. for the moment, as you know, it has gone to the highest court. we are waiting to see what that judicial process will reveal. we have made it clear that we expect the highest judicial standards to be followed and we are now watching to see what the outcome of the court case will be. then of course we will decide what further action we should take.
on behalf of the ppe group you know, mrs ashton, that ecuador is linked to the european union by a political dialogue and cooperation agreement whose essential elements are the democratic clause and respect for fundamental rights, including the right to freedom of expression. you said that, in fact, on the 10th the supreme court will decide on appeal this case, in which president correa has said that, if he is asked for forgiveness, he would be willing to withdraw the lawsuit. beyond the concern you have expressed for freedom of expression in ecuador, what would you be willing to do to find a balanced, fair and respectful solution to the principle of freedom of expression?
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − first of all we have to see what the court is actually going to do. if the supreme court overturns what has been done, then the solution has been found through a judicial process. in my view it would be right and proper to watch the court and see what happens. if they do not do that, then i think you are completely right. we have obligations in our agreement and we would want to look at what kind of démarches to take and what response we would like to give. i think the government of ecuador knows we are watching the situation extremely closely, but for the moment i feel we should let the judicial process take its course and then react afterwards. we should certainly keep in touch on this.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − i was with president abbas on 26 january and before that i was with prime minister netanyahu. i feel very passionately that the work that the king of jordan has initiated to bring the two chief negotiators together should be supported as long as – and this is your point – there is real progress. the quartet statement talked about three months from 26 october but – as i have made clear to both parties and have been very open about – if they wish to carry on talking longer, that is fine. the question is that, within the overall timeframe that was set out, we expect serious resolution to be reached. currently there is work going on. the jordanian foreign minister is very engaged. i spoke with him yesterday. there is a lot of work going on to try to find ways in which president abbas can feel comfortable for these conversations to be ongoing, but we watch and wait now in these next few crucial days to see if we can see the progress that you quite rightly point to.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − as always you are right. there is a lot at stake. i met with hanan ashrawi and also with prime minister fayyad while i was in the region to talk to them. they are both passionate advocates of seeing the elections happen. they believe it is important to be out campaigning and trying to get a strong resolution. but we are, as always in this region with this issue, at a critical moment. i hope the government of israel will show and demonstrate its commitment in some way. can i just say that it is very nice to see you because i know you have had an accident. it is lovely to have you here.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − first of all, in the democratic republic of congo president kabila has a real responsibility to learn from what has happened in these elections as we move forward to the local elections that are due to take place. you will know that i have put out a statement saying that we needed not just calm, but real reflection on what has happened. i am very worried about the potential for a setback in the drc. it is extremely worrying. it is a country for which we have provided a great deal of support – i think it is just over eur 1 billion over the five-year period – and that is extremely important. we have two missions there which are being reviewed, but i hope reviewed with a purpose, to see what more we can do. it is very worrying to see that. in terms of what is happening for the senegalese people, we have been very clear on their rights to be able to demonstrate peacefully, to see that there is no violence of any kind, and that we have everyone adhering to the legal procedures that need to take place. so we will want to follow that electoral process very closely. as the honourable member has such clear contacts, i think this is a good example where the work of parliamentarians is going to be vital. i know that many members of this house have been engaged with the drc and with senegal. we need to keep that up.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − i agree with you about the need to move more swiftly on pooling and sharing. i was at the european defence agency yesterday, where the theme of what i was saying – which has been widely reported – was the need to see that in this economic climate pooling and sharing becomes even more important. you are right to refer to what is happening in the united states because the defense secretary there, mr panetta, has been very clear too. he has high expectations of us. that also means that it needs to be reflected in our structures, and i agree with you. we have just finished what we call the screening exercise to try to pull together exactly how the structure should work. the crisis platform is meant to be the practical manifestation of how everybody works together: testing our systems for the kind of disaster or crisis that we might face – as well as being ready to develop its work – and exporting our ideas on this across the world. as you know, we have been engaged with the arab league in supporting the setting-up of a situation room for them. we have just had a team down in indonesia helping to support their approach to dealing with crisis. we will make sure that we develop this even further. conflict prevention and crisis management are critical parts of how we move forward.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − i really want it to be integrated into the full budget for two reasons. one is, because of the nature of the way pilot projects run, i cannot use the money in quite the way that we might want to. i want to build up our capacity to deal with these issues and to look at mediation and support in-house as well as externally. i think we really could build on some of the work that we are doing – and i agree with you about the quality of the people we have got – so i am very pleased at the support you offer me on that.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − let us begin with the reality of the story, which is that we have been allocated a number of staff and a number of delegations across the world, where most of the staff – i should add, and particularly in fiji – are actually working on development across the region. there are certain places in the world where we have a hub and they go out from that hub to work in different parts of the region. there are several places that i could point to where that is the case. the second issue is that, in inheriting the staff which i was given, i also inherited the terms and conditions which are part of the regulations and which require me to do certain things. that requires me to have additional expenditure, and i have been very clear and very open about that. the staff regulations demand that i pay these salaries and that i make these salary increases and i make these increments at these times. the third issue is that member states and members of this house have been very keen to see the european union active in places where we have not been active before. i will give you the example of libya, where members here were very pleased when i opened an office in benghazi and have now opened a delegation in tripoli, but to do so requires resources that are not in the budget that i inherited. equally, i have to make places secure across the world. in iraq our european union delegation is housed with the british, who are leaving iraq. i have to find a secure home for them in this time of great difficulty. so everything that i am asking for is in that context, but i would also say that i have done a ten-percent cost efficiency on missions, i have done a five-percent cost efficiency on representation and i continue to look, for exactly the reasons that you point out, to save money and not to have excessive expenditure. but there is a challenge for me with a new service, with the expectations of this house and the council and the requirements that are legally on me, and i am trying to meet those in the most cost-efficient way i can.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − i wondered if mr tannock was suggesting we should be on the security council? (laughter)the first thing to say is that we work very closely with our member states who are on the security council. in the discussions i have had with sergey lavrov and with the chinese state councillor, whom i meet with regularly, we always talk about these important issues, of which syria is number one. it is absolutely alarming what is going on in syria and you are absolutely right to point to it, but our delegation in new york – coordinating with all member states, but working very closely with those security council members from the european union – are pushing every day, every hour with russia and with china. last night i spoke with the russian ambassador about this very subject – my political director is currently on a plane back from moscow, where she has spent two days on this – and i spoke with president medvedev at our summit. it is really important that we try to find something through the security council that can really support what nabil elaraby and the arab league have been moving to do. the discussion i had with the gcc was exactly on this so you make an incredibly important point. i accept that.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, mrs ashton, we have a credibility problem when we try to prevent certain states from acquiring the technology to have nuclear weapons. it is the nuclear-capable states that do not want other states to acquire this technology, and i therefore believe that the time has come, mrs ashton, for the european union to push for an international treaty to prohibit and ecologically destroy the entire world nuclear arsenal. i believe that this would be the best credible political proposal, at international level, to put an end to this hypocrisy, which is why the nuclear-armed states do not want other states to have this capability. i am correct: not all of them; some of them do, as in the case of the state of israel, which has never received any sanctions, and we all know that it has nuclear weapons.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − the first thing to say is that you specifically raised the middle east and, as you know, we play a very active role in looking for a middle east that is free of weapons of mass destruction. i think that what the international community is engaged in is trying to find the right way to move states which are thinking about nuclear capacity, nuclear weapons capability, and which could potentially pose great danger, and of course to continue the work that has been going on for some time – and which we saw with president obama in his dialogue over the last few years – to reduce the arsenals of nuclear weapons and to try and move forward in that direction. it is very important that we take our responsibilities seriously. that of course will bring me to mention iran where, as you know, i played the role of chief negotiator, on behalf of the e3+3, and where we are consistently trying to deal with this through dialogue while recognising our obligations to put pressure on and to make sure that iran understands its obligations.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. the problem, mrs ashton, is that the same yardstick has not been used in the same area with another state, which is israel. it has never been embargoed, it has never received any warning, any warning, and the state of israel has nuclear weapons. so i think that's the speech that needs to be redressed. and my last question on this issue is that i hope that no road map of embargoes or sanctions against any state in the region can end in military intervention, and that no such solution is being considered. i hope and wish that no military intervention is being planned.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − i can assure the honourable member that the member states of the european union, in discussing the issues of iran, were very clear that the twin-track approach that we are describing is the way that we wish to proceed. that approach involves applying pressure, through our economic ability and political ability, to show iran what it should do, while showing, through our approachability, our desire to hold discussions, dialogue and talks. i think that was very clear. in terms of the region as a whole, as i have already indicated, we are very engaged in looking to find ways to have a region free of weapons of mass destruction, which of course includes nuclear weapons.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − it is a very important issue and you are absolutely right, mr provera, to raise this. it is an issue that we have been discussing with the egyptians and with israel, because of the issues of the sinai desert, and of course with the libyan authorities which have engaged with us on looking at how we deal with border management and how we might support them in trying to tackle the huge number of weapons that are in libya and leaving libya. we have also, as you know, developed our sahel strategy. i met with the foreign ministers of the four countries – niger, mauritania, mali and algeria – to talk about how we could support them as well, as they try and develop their security strategies for the region: firstly, by a combination of collaboration with those governments to try and find ways in which we can offer our expertise, knowledge and support; and secondly, to try and help them deal with their borders, which is a big issue. turning to gaza, i was there last week. we have a constant theme of trying to keep the crossings open and the tunnels closed, so there can be proper trade. i visited places in israel which have been on the receiving end of the rockets and missiles that have come from gaza. all of these things are very high on the agenda of the work we are trying to do in supporting this region in transition.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − with help, i think, with help. they need international support to do it. they have got people but they need the help from europeans, from the americans and others who have got the expertise in how to actually track where weapons are and to destroy weapon stockpiles when they are found.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − i have to say that this is an interesting interpretation of the international atomic energy agency’s report because i would not necessarily – if you will forgive me – agree with you on what they say they have found. i think you should be reassured that, long before any decisions were taken, there were many discussions, between member states but also through experts, on looking at the implications, domestically as well as internationally. the purpose of sanctions is to create a strong economic action in order, as i have indicated, to succeed in bringing iran to the negotiation table. but, in any sanctions that we introduce, we are very mindful of the domestic impact because the effect is not designed to hurt us. therefore you will see within the sanctions built-in review periods and periods to check the impact. just to reassure you further, we also talked with a number of oil-producing countries. i personally did that – i was in the region to do that – as did others, so we could try to guarantee and be certain of that. but all sanctions are kept under review and one of the reasons is to ensure that we understand and we minimise any impact.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − (microphone off at start of speech) ... an offer of help and i would be extremely pleased for us to have the opportunity to talk more about madagascar. we are very clear that this is a country where article 96 applies, where you have this unconstitutional change of government. as i understood it from the sadc road map, this was an important african leadership move where, in a sense, we were able to give our conditional backing to the transition process, but i appreciate that this is now a country with immense challenges. our new ambassador has just arrived and presented credentials and i am hoping that we will get further information on how best we can engage with it, apart from the obvious support that we are offering. it is difficult and we are in touch with sadc to see what more we can do to support them. you are right to point to their road map as being an important element of this, but we should talk further with the group.
madam president, mrs ashton, the approach being followed by the european union in its relations with the iranian regime is a combination of diplomacy and sanctions. but let us not be deceived: we are talking about a brutal, dictatorial and inhuman regime, and we all know that it is impossible to reason with those who are unreasonable. the attack on the british embassy in tehran is enough to warn us of the iranian regime's concept of diplomatic relations. in this context, my specific question is the following: given that the iranian regime is clearly violating the non-proliferation treaty, would it not be appropriate to set a deadline, fixed and non-extendable, for it to comply with its obligations and, if it does not do so within that deadline, to impose additional sanctions which are really effective?
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, as we already touched upon in question hour, the issue of the iranian nuclear programme is of great concern for all of the european union and for the international community as a whole. colleagues have already mentioned that, at the foreign affairs council on 23 january, we discussed the issue in the context of agreeing new sanctions. as i indicate on all occasions, we are committed to maintaining this pressure on the iranian authorities to comply with their international obligations, and it is a key element of the twin-track approach along with the e3+3 process which, as you are aware, i lead. we have several un security council resolutions but in spite of them iran continues to violate its obligations. it does not cooperate fully with the iaea and it accelerates the expansion of its nuclear programme. in early january it started operations to enrich uranium to a level of near 20% at the underground facility at qom, a site controlled by the military. honourable members know that for a number of years serious concerns have been expressed concerning the lack of cooperation from iran in resolving these outstanding issues, including those that point to the military dimension of its nuclear programme. the iaea report of november 2011 presented findings on its activities relating to developments of military nuclear technology. on that basis, the board of governors adopted by overwhelming majority a resolution that expressed increasing concern on the iranian nuclear programme. i hope that the work that we do demonstrates our commitment to efforts aimed at achieving a diplomatic solution to the iranian nuclear issue, the second part of the twin track. i have written to dr jalili, my counterpart, setting out proposals which would allow iran to gain benefits in the nuclear, political and economic field but, despite reminders, i have so far received no response to proposals to enter into a confidence-building process based on reciprocity and a step-by-step approach. we have always expressed our readiness to address, in the framework of confidence-building, other issues of concern which may be of interest for iran, for example cooperation in the area of counter-narcotics. i take every opportunity to reiterate this message to the iranian side, most recently in my discussions with foreign minister salehi and in parallel by using my contacts with third countries, particularly turkey, to pass the message to iran that the door remains open for negotiations through this confidence-building process which could be launched as soon as iran demonstrates its readiness to do so. so it is against the background of that approach that the council adopted further measures. it was an important step. it showed eu unity and eu leadership. these measures are designed to specifically and significantly affect iran’s financial capacity to pursue that nuclear programme by curtailing its revenue from crude oil exports. the sanctions on oil are of particular significance because of their effect on the revenue of the iranian government. oil exports count for about 80% percent of iran’s exports and 70% of government revenues. the eu imports amount to 20% of iran’s oil exports. so by specifically targeting this important source of revenue we are strongly increasing the pressure on the iranian government, whilst avoiding as far as we possibly can negative effects on the iranian population. we do not stand alone in this. un sanctions continue to be in force. on 31 december 2011 the united states decided to strengthen further its sanctions against iran, targeting in particular the iranian financial system and revenues from different sources including from oil exports. we now need to convince as many like-minded countries as we can, in particular those who import iranian oil, to take similar steps and consider reducing their import of that oil. this will maximise the effect of the sanctions. the prohibition is taking place in a phased manner, allowing us to adjust to the new situation, and a review has been built in to take stock of the effect of the measure in the course of the coming months and address any problems that may arise. by doing so we have ensured that the eu and member states will be able to have the time and means to adjust and ensure the continuity of their energy supplies. finally, i just want to mention that we also continue to have grave concerns about the human rights situation in iran. this relates in particular to ongoing oppression of the political opposition, but also to the increasing use and excessive application of the death penalty. in reaction to the repression and the dramatic increase in executions there has been since april 2011 an eu sanctions regime against iran addressing the human rights situation. it targets specifically those people complicit in or responsible for these grave human rights violations and, since it was strengthened in october, it now includes 61 people. a prohibition on the supply of equipment that could be used for oppression is also part of our sanctions. so i believe that our approach is the right one – continuing our pressure on iran, continuing to push for negotiations – and i look forward very much to hearing from honourable members on this issue.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union, ladies and gentlemen, the council of 23 has taken a difficult but coherent decision. i congratulate you on that, mrs ashton, and this parliament will support the council's conclusions in the resolution we will vote on tomorrow. it has been difficult, as you have just explained, because it has meant sacrifices for several member states, and it is consistent, because it is in line with the positions we have been defending. the president of the french republic, the prime ministers of france and the united kingdom have all said that they will not allow iran to acquire nuclear weapons. but apart from being coherent, these measures must be effective in order to give priority to the path of dialogue, to get iran back to the negotiating table, to get it to cooperate fully with the inspectors of the international atomic energy agency and also, mrs ashton, to put out the war drums that are already beating: israel has said that all options are open and some republican preselect in the united states has said that we must act quickly. on the other hand, some iranian ministers have said that these sanctions will be ineffective, because the european union needs more of iranian crude oil than iran needs of the resources of the european union, and the threat of closing the strait of hormuz and of an escalation of tension in the area can have a serious impact on oil prices and further complicate the difficult economic situation we are experiencing. i would therefore like to say to mrs ashton that, in addition to the internal dimension and the consistency we have shown with the decisions of the council of 23rd, it is also important to act now in terms of external projection and influence with our allies. you have just told us that you have visited india; the position of india, japan and other countries is fundamental if the measures that have been taken are to have the effects that many of us desire.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mrs ashton, indeed, iran is going to remain a critical issue in the year 2012 that has just begun. it will continue to play its role as a global destabiliser and a regional destabiliser from its position of lack of transparency in relation to its nuclear programme and from its status as the world's third largest exporter of crude oil. but this situation of being the world's third largest exporter of crude oil means that the oil industry accounts for 80 per cent of iran's income, as you have said, and this may give our sanctions a semblance of effectiveness. mrs ashton, although israel, although the republicans in the united states are at a level of escalation that is unacceptable to us, my group absolutely, categorically, excludes the military option. we support the european approach of the two-track approach you have mentioned, we support proportionate and targeted sanctions on companies, political leaders and economic actors, minimising their effect on the population as a whole. but, mrs ashton, the european union must reactivate the second channel of this two-way channel, namely diplomacy. and what we must insist on is the rigorous inspections by the international atomic energy agency, on iran's acceptance of all the safeguard measures imposed by this agency in exchange for the production of enriched uranium for civilian use, as permitted by the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. it is not a question - as you did in your letter to the iranian negotiator in october - of simply demanding that iran give up its capacity to enrich uranium as a precondition for dialogue. the production of uranium by iran must be controlled by all the measures of the international atomic energy agency and we must create the conditions and confidence-building measures with a broader and more ambitious agenda in our relations with iran.
mr president, russia is an important neighbour of the european union, both geographically and historically, and also a very important economic and energy partner. he is also a permanent member of the security council. russia is one of the necessary actors for an efficient global governance that can address global problems, and we also need greater cooperation from russia on issues such as the situation in syria, on the brink of civil war, or the nuclear challenge from iran. but i believe that the european union wants a relationship with russia that goes beyond these global or regional interests. russia is a european neighbour, a member of the council of europe and the osce. i believe that we want a relationship of genuine trust and friendship with russia, based on common values and principles. that is why we want a new association agreement and why we want for russia what we want for ourselves: a pluralist democratic regime that respects civil and political freedoms and a rule of law in which corruption and arbitrariness are the exception. but the developments in the december parliamentary elections did not serve to strengthen that confidence. the irregularities in the process and the serious allegations made are well known. i would like the next presidential elections not to repeat these shortcomings and for russia to finally be able to move along the path of clear democratic progress and modernity, which is what we, its european neighbours, want.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. today the sports world is mourning the deaths at a soccer match in egypt. i express my strongest condemnation, but also my thoughts to the victims and their families. in drawing up the report i have been in constant contact with the world of sport, listening to their concerns and trying to reflect on the issues on which the european union is asking for a statement. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has brought about a revolution in the world of sport, since it creates for the first time a legal basis of its own, in article 165. the first response of the treaty was the commission's communication entitled 'developing the european dimension of sport', which follows the guidelines of the 2007 white paper. parliament has responded by means of an own-initiative report with the same title. the report was approved in the committee on culture and education by 28 votes to 2. i would like to highlight two concepts or frontiers relating to sport which i took very much into account when drafting the report: the principle of subsidiarity, which recognises the competence of the member states, and the concept of the specific nature of sport, as set out in article 165. but this is not a universal principle, but must be studied and approved on a case-by-case basis. the autonomy of sport's governance structures must also be respected as the main foundation for its organisation. let me now briefly highlight some points in the report. firstly, volunteering, the selfless participation of thousands of citizens, guarantees the holding of countless sporting events, so our support must be unconditional. secondly, the doping. doping is a scourge for sport and society. we must educate on prevention, condemn traffickers, prosecute cheaters and harmonize sanctions between sports law and civil law, always with the greatest possible respect for sportsmen. the report calls for the prosecution of trafficking in illegal substances to be treated in the same way as drug trafficking and for national legislation to be adopted in this respect. it is essential to support the practice of sport in schools, and that is why we ask that sport be included in their curricula. the life of the sportsman ends sooner or later, and it is necessary that during his career the sportsman can have access to a quality academic training for his later integration into the world of work. unfortunately, racism, xenophobia and homophobia are present in sport, so new measures are needed to remove any hint of these threats from sporting events. i would like to stress the undeniable benefits that sport brings to people's health and that it means a considerable reduction in public health expenditure. i would like to emphasise the importance of sport as a means of integration for the most vulnerable groups, such as immigrants or socially excluded groups, and also for people with disabilities. sports betting must be protected from unauthorised activities and from suspicion of match fixing, in particular by recognising the property rights of organisers over the competitions they organise. the report also calls on states to criminalise sports fraud. it is essential that the commercial exploitation of television rights in sporting competitions is carried out in a centralised and territorial manner to ensure that revenues are distributed fairly between elite and mainstream sport. i would like to highlight the proposal to establish a european day of sport and also the creation of a european sports erasmus, as well as the protection of indigenous sports as part of our cultural heritage. these are just some of the issues that the report deals with and i hope that you will support it.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me once again pay tribute to mr fisas for the excellent report, which is very much in line with the commission’s thinking and the challenges facing sport in europe. i am happy to say that the commission is already implementing some of the main ideas expressed in the report. i will not deal with the question of the logos on the flag. as a matter of fact i see that the members who raised this objection were in a hurry to leave the chamber, but honestly we have many more important challenges in sport to deal with than this. one that comes to mind is the question of violence because, as a result of violence, we have lost 70 people tonight, with one thousand injured. violence, match fixing, sports agents and many issues are challenges with which we have to deal very urgently. as we look to the future, let us take encouragement from the commission’s proposal for a new programme, which gives us the tools and resources to develop a european dimension in sport. therefore i look forward to cooperating with all of you who are great believers in sport and working together in order to achieve what we aspire for in sport.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i also thank all the members who have spoken in this debate. i'm not going to waste a second debunking some of the lies that have been told here. anyone who can read, read the report. i would like to end by pointing out the importance of sport in such diverse and crucial issues for society as the integration of the most disadvantaged groups, the health of people, education, employment and the economy. let us remember that sport in europe directly or indirectly represents some 15 million jobs - 5.4% of the working population - and an annual value added of eur 407 billion - 3.65% of european gdp. i am therefore pleased that the commission has taken the initiative and supported it, given the importance of sport, and i would also like to ask the commissioner to make it possible for the structural funds to be specifically applied to sport. and above all, i would like to thank the support of the main groups in this house. i hope that, thanks to the support of these groups, we will be able to adopt this report in the vote tomorrow.
mr president, between the 1960s and the 1980s, thousands of babies were stolen in spain. the motive was cheap. many mothers then received the tragic and false news that their newborn son or daughter had died. they certified death and faked burial, but in fact, they were kidnapping and selling these creatures. in the basque country alone there may be 600 cases that have given rise to 200 judicial investigations. so far, three graves have been opened: all were empty. only an organized official plot could commit these crimes. until a few months ago, there was only silence. all the complaints were filed. the sos stolen babies association is spreading the word about this problem. it is made up of victims who are looking for their sons and daughters and demanding justice and reparation. those responsible for these events have committed crimes, and have created thousands of personal tragedies that are difficult to repair, because they affect parents, children and foster families. that is why i ask for your involvement, support and sensitivity. a vigilant look by the european institutions at this dark matter will help to bring it to full light.
mr president, the management of the multinational teka has announced a job-loss dossier which will affect 198 workers at its factory in cajo, santander (cantabria), a region already badly affected by the increasing unemployment in recent months. the measure will also affect 400 jobs created by subsidiaries also located in the region. teka does not have sufficient economic reasons to make this decision. the reason is simply that the company is relocating outside the european union. i would therefore ask the european commission to demand that the governments of cantabria and spain commit themselves more fully to the workers of our region by seeking a final solution to this social conflict and to examine all possibilities at european level, such as the european globalisation adjustment fund. europe cannot afford to stand still any longer and i would especially like to say to the president of cantabria, who in his electoral programme promised to take care of the companies already established in the community, that he should do so, that he should turn words into deeds. teka workers are the priority for the industrial fabric of our region.
mr president, spainair has gone bankrupt in recent days, leaving overnight 2 000 workers in despair and abandoned and 22 000 passengers completely affected, unreimbursed, without any information; all of them victims of mismanagement and irresponsible management by a staff accustomed to living off public money and not managing it well; victims, too, of fights between airlines and of an aid scheme criticised as inefficient; the european commission has even been blamed. but we say that as early as 2009 we asked the commission for legislative measures to mitigate precisely the consequences of the bankruptcy of airlines and to address the absolute inadequacy of the protection of travellers and consumers, as well as of the procedures to protect workers in this situation. we need a legislative proposal, commissioner, not purely voluntary procedures, and we need it now, to protect travellers and workers.
mr president, i would like to draw attention to the implications of the policy of cutting public spending in some member states of the european union, particularly in my own country, spain. in spain, both the central government and some autonomous communities are drastically cutting public spending on health and education, and this is creating a very serious deterioration in both the public health and education systems, initiating the privatization of these services. that is unacceptable. as a sample button, in a small town hall - not so small -, hospitalet de llobregat, in catalonia, is currently trying to close its primary care center, which has led the inhabitants of this city to mobilize; they have been locked up for 97 days already, to prevent the closure of the bellvitge primary care center. it's a symbol: people are mobilizing to defend something that is theirs, quality public services in health and education.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's right to petition is respected. mr president, it is almost a year since the committee on petitions decided to draw up a report on waste management in the european union. the decision was taken after it was found that there were many and repeated petitions against the poor management of waste by the authorities, the location of certain landfills, the destruction of certain natural areas, etc. the committee on petitions, aware of these demands, sent several fact-finding missions to the places concerned to verify on the spot the reality of these complaints lodged by the petitioners. all this has brought us here today, to the european parliament, to show that there is one area which we must pay particular attention to and remain vigilant about, namely the correct application by the member states of existing legislation. as i said at the beginning of my speech, most european citizens expect public authorities to provide efficient and effective public services in the areas of health, education, transport and safety. however, the issue that is raising a growing number of requests is the apparent inability of public authorities in many countries to address the problem of waste management satisfactorily. the european union has adopted a large number of legislative measures, applicable in all member states, in order to ensure that the necessary legal framework exists to deal with the inevitable consequence of our modern lifestyle in terms of all the things we throw away as waste from our homes, our workplaces, our hospitals, our industries, etc. it is clear to everyone that failing to address these issues and to prioritise efforts in this direction has negative effects, not only on the health and well-being of people, but also on the viability of the planet and its environment. judging by the petitions received, this concern is growing in many local communities, which indicates that waste management is becoming a serious political and social problem and that citizens expect the european union to solve it in some way. analysis of waste management policies in the member states of the european union has revealed wide discrepancies and serious breaches of european union legislation. the commission reported in january 2011 that 177 infringement procedures had been initiated in relation to landfills since the deadline for the implementation of the landfill directive expired in 2001. in addition, it was estimated that at least 619 illegal landfills were still in operation. in its strategic report on waste prevention and recycling, the commission clearly demonstrates that it is doing everything possible to tackle the problem of waste management and also outlines its medium-term proposals. it should be remembered in this context, mr president, that the large number of infringement procedures mentioned are intended to ensure compliance with the law, but from the point of view of the petitioners, there is still much to be done in properly monitoring the effective application of the law. closely related to the waste management process, although at the highest level of the process, are the european union directives regulating environmental impact assessment and citizens' access to environmental information.
mr iturgaiz, congratulations on your report. unfortunately, your party has not always defended it, even when it was in power. an example is my own country, galicia, where waste management does not give priority to prevention, reuse and recycling, as mentioned in paragraph 12 of your report. galicia already incinerates 42% of its waste and the galician government is planning a new incinerator in o irixo, which consolidates this system as a hegemonic bet for waste treatment. moreover, although it is a project to incinerate half of the waste reaching 3 million people, it does not comply with the environmental impact assessment referred to in points 18 to 25, opting for a shortened procedure. the project also fails to comply with points 16 to 18 as regards the necessary dialogue and information to the affected population, which rejects the incinerator. i therefore call for the european waste legislation to be respected and i ask you to send your report to the galician government.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to give my most sincere gratitude to the honourable members for this substantive debate, which reflected the attitudes of our citizens. let me make the following points. first, for the commission the number one priority is to put in place the right sequencing of action, namely first reuse, recycle, recover and, only if that is not possible, go for landfills based on stringent environmental impact assessments. during this process we naturally look very seriously at the transportation of waste. so how do we help the member states? through guidance and best practice, but also by scrutinising national management plans to make sure that they are adequate in helping with the problems. for the ten countries with more serious problems, we intend to carry out individual meetings to accelerate action. obviously, when action falls short, we do not hesitate to start infringement procedures – out of 19 which have been started, nine are still ongoing – and also, as a last resort, to take member states to the european court of justice for breaches of eu waste legislation. may i just stress that one third of the environmental cases concern failure to deal properly with waste management. i completely agree that not only should we do the right thing at home but we should also set the right example for developing countries, because a mountain of waste somewhere else would actually have implications for the status of our planet. i could not agree more with the point that has been made by members that in these tough economic times, waste reuse, recycling and recovery is an economic opportunity and we should not miss out on a good crisis to grab it. there was a specific question on mining waste. after the baia mare accident and an international commission report, we have come up – to the best of my knowledge – with the most stringent directive in the world. we are working very closely with countries, including romania, to make sure that the directive is respected and implemented. finally, a point on public awareness. we certainly need to work on that. may i just add that i spent most of my professional career working on the environment. i started because a member of my family got sick – irrevocable damage was caused to his health – because of groundwater pollution. therefore i fully share the emotional attitude of our citizens and our members of parliament.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to say to some of them that there have been comments on whether or not this debate should have been held in the committee on petitions and on having it moved here from that committee. i would like to make a point, mr president, and defend the committee on petitions as the appropriate place to discuss these matters. i say this because the petitioners, the citizens of the european union, have turned to the committee on petitions. apart from the fact that they are addressed to other committees, such as the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and that opinions or reports on these issues can also be drawn up in other committees, i believe that in the committee on petitions, when citizens come to us, they want us to answer them, they want us to give them a solution to their problems and, without a doubt, we cannot look the other way, divert attention, because if we did, the committee on petitions itself would lack the reasons for its existence, its work and its behaviour within the european parliament. that said, i would also like to say to some colleagues that in the petitions we have always been told about the existence of deficiencies in waste management and the frequent inability, it is true, of the member states to comply with their legal obligations. but this report also addresses these issues and calls on the member states to transpose the waste directive without further delay and to ensure full compliance with all its requirements, in particular by drawing up and implementing comprehensive waste management plans. so, mr president, i think that this report, in mrs georgieva's own words, has already set out a very direct path to try to solve all the problems that the groups have pointed out, many problems relating to this matter, but i think it also emphasizes that we cannot wait or look the other way when it comes to solving so many and so many questions and requests that are being received from all the countries of the european union.
mr president, the crisis cannot be an excuse for not investing in solving one of the main problems facing the european union as a whole today. moreover, it is becoming increasingly clear that the crisis is even an excuse, in many areas, to increase certain aspects that lead to even more violence against women. and this is precisely, in my view, one of the central debates we have to face in this house, not only from the point of view of the economic cost. it has been said, and it is true, that violence also generates a significant economic cost, but beyond this economic cost generated by this violence and the consequences it obviously has, we will also deal with the substantive debate, as has been suggested. this debate cannot be used for ideological issues, which may even lead to a stigmatisation of women, which obviously also leads to their being relegated to a vulnerable position and thus to their being more susceptible, if necessary, to violence. i insist that this is a good opportunity to continue to speak in the terms in which we must speak, but let us not forget the substance of the matter, which is the fundamental discrimination suffered by women in many parts of our society.
mr president, i think this is a crucial issue, not only because the role of women in war is important as victims and as targeted objectives in that situation, but also because of the role that women can play in peace-building. rebuilding societies and changing some of the patterns that have brought some societies to war: this to me is one of the crucial issues that we have to underline – not only in the resolution, but also as the united nations is doing in their resolutions 1325 and 1820. that is also why it is so important that the european union has a specific special representative for this issue. as has been said – and i fully support this – there is a huge opportunity for the european union to put that issue at the forefront of the external dimension of these activities. this is, as has been said, not a minor issue, and it is a huge opportunity that we should not miss.
mr president, i am pleased that this parliament has endorsed, in this annual report on taxation, the principle of fiscal federalism in the basque-navarro economic agreement. competition on revenue and not just on expenditure encourages responsibility, prevents deficits and encourages the development of effective policies to support the productive economy. support for national legislation in this area is also essential for regions that already have fiscal powers and for those that claim them. our support for the principle of fiscal federalism is complemented by our agreement to the principles of financial stability, our support for the economic governance package and our support for fiscal harmonisation. but we want the same treatment for regional tax systems as for state systems, because we are facing the paradox of facing a european sanction for applying identical tax incentives to employees in the basque country at the same time by some member states for which no sanctioning procedure has been opened. harmonization, yes, but for all.
madam president, i wish to express my support for the values embodied in the report adopted today. after the events in egypt in recent days, it is particularly appropriate to place the principle of fair play, both on and off the sports field, as the cornerstone of the european philosophy on sport. i also share a more open model of image rights management for major sporting events. that is why i find it tragic what is happening to radio stations and professional football in spain. i regret that this report has missed the opportunity to de-dramatise the debate on national selections in the european context. i belong to a stateless nation, like scotland or wales. these british kingdoms compete with their own national teams in international competitions; the basques would like to have our own basque national teams and we would have no problem sharing on our shirts the ikurriña our national colours with the european flag. that's not possible today. you missed an opportunity today.
in writing. − abstention. the brics and current emerging economies do not constitute or comprise a formal grouping of countries designed to play a specific role in international affairs, and the eu should therefore develop a relationship with each one of those countries, taking note of their singularity and specific foreign policy objectives and aims. the eu should invest in strategic partnerships with each brics country and other emerging economies, as they increasingly play a role in the international arena, particularly in international organisations, such as the un, as a means of advancing common goals, namely peace and global security, the rule of law domestically or internationally, the promotion of human rights, democracy, sustainable development and global financial regulation. however, the resolution was a bit unclear on how to proceed in that regard.
in writing. − in favour. some examples of authoritarian leaders, and their circles, with assets within the eu: (1) it is estimated that within the last 2 decades, usd 150 billion has left the countries in north africa (algeria, morocco and tunisia); (2) in egypt, hosni mubarak and his family were estimated to have a personal fortune of between usd 50 billion and usd 70 billion, invested mainly in the eu and the us; (3) the director of the london school of economics resigned over revelations that the lse had been involved in a deal worth gbp 2.2 million to train libyan civil servants; (4) and that a further gbp 20 000 was paid to the lse for tuition for the prime minister of libya, mr al-mahmudi, who was named in unsc resolution 1970 for, amongst other things, gross and systematic violation of human rights, including the repression of peaceful demonstrators; (5) the kaddafi regime is estimated to hold billions in assets across the eu, especially in the uk (private property); (6) kim il jong keeps approximately usd 4 billion in european banks; (7) omar al-bashir, the sudanese president, is suspected of siphoning off usd 9 billion from his country’s oil boom and depositing much of it in british banks.
in writing. − in favour. this calls on the commission to submit, on the basis of article 50(1) and (2) (g) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, a proposal for a directive on the cross-border transfer of company seats, following the recommendation set out in the annex.
in writing. − in favour. the eu (the commission together with the member states) is the world’s largest donor of humanitarian aid. the eu’s total contribution of humanitarian aid, including the member states, in 2010 was eur 2 957 million, whereas the share of the eu member states was 64% and the funds channelled through the commission amounted to 36%. echo is the directorate general (dg) of the european commission responsible for the implementation of eu humanitarian aid (regulation (ce) 1257/96). dg echo’s mandate encompasses humanitarian assistance and civil protection, the two main instruments at the eu’s disposal to ensure delivery of humanitarian assistance to the victims of disasters and protracted conflicts. echo implements its mandate by funding about 200 partners: ngos, un agencies, international organisations and specialised agencies of the member states. the commission manages its humanitarian activities from its headquarters in brussels via a network of more than 40 field offices all over the world.
in writing. − i am in favour of calls for any proposal in the field of collective redress to take the form of a binding horizontal framework while a limited number of rules relevant to consumer protection or competition law could be laid down in separate articles or chapters of the horizontal instrument itself or in separate legal instruments.
in writing. − in favour. whereas, as stated in article 3 of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006, the use of nutrition and health claims must not be false, ambiguous or misleading, the european parliament 1. opposes adoption of the draft commission regulation amending regulation (ec) 1924/2006 with regard to the list of nutrition claims; 2. considers that the draft commission regulation is not compatible with the purpose and content of the basic instrument; 3. calls on the commission to submit an amended draft of the measure to the committee.
in writing. - i'm against it. this is a useless resolution for a useless agreement. the european parliament had already called for action within the community method and for a democratic approach to be taken to decide how to strengthen economic governance. the member states refused to heed this demand and signed the so-called 'fiscal pact', which not only weakens our democratic institutions, but also crystallizes procyclical economic measures that will not get us out of the crisis. the resolution adopted by parliament today is irrelevant, even though it recognises the importance of incorporating the financial transaction and project bonds levy, because it does not propose any new and more concrete response to the crisis. the european parliament should stand up and demand a democratic process to get out of the crisis.
in writing. − in favour. although paragraph 4, which ‘supports the new sanctions’, was adopted, overall the tendency of the resolution has developed very much in the direction of favouring a peaceful and negotiated solution. three of our six amendments were equally adopted: amendment 3 replacing ‘eventual military intervention’ by ‘further escalation’ (with 350 to 266 votes); amendment 4 reiterating the ep position that the conflict has to be solved peacefully; amendment 5 welcoming the recent iaea delegation to iran. those that were rejected are: our amendments 1, 2, 6 on the dangers of nuclear energy; reduction of oil and gas consumption in europe; condemnation of all acts of aggression (against the uk embassy or against iranian scientists or infrastructure).
in writing. - i abstained on amendment no 4 because the last line should have been worded as follows: 'unless a military solution is imposed in accordance with the united nations and the rules of international law'.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this report on the european dimension of sport. i would like to stress that sport contributes to the eu's strategic objectives, in particular those relating to the fundamental values of education and culture. it is also an important vector of integration. i think that the report's reference to doping is a positive one, a scourge which violates the values of sport and puts athletes' lives at risk. this is a subject which i have denounced on many occasions. i have already said in this house that the fight against doping is about working not only for clean competition but also for the health of the public. i would like to take this opportunity to reiterate that scientific research against doping requires a european dimension. a joint effort is needed to identify and combat more effectively the increasingly dangerous substances and processes used for doping. it is remarkable that this report calls for the eu to accede to the council of europe's anti-doping convention and i would remind you that it is important to have european legislation against this dangerous activity.
in writing. − in favour. article 165 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) gives the eu a new competence for sport, calls on the eu to contribute to the promotion of sporting issues and provides that eu action should be aimed at developing the european dimension in sport. the communication from the commission entitled ‘developing the european dimension in sport’ is the first policy document issued in the field of sport after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, which gives the eu a mandate to support, coordinate and supplement sport policy measures taken by member states. it sets out the commission’s ideas for eu-level action in the field of sport. it proposes concrete actions for the commission and/or the member states: the societal role of sport, the economic dimension of sport and the organisation of sport.
in writing. − in favour. a main objective for us was to point out that rational and efficient waste management strategies and practices which follow the waste management hierarchy are not only necessary for the protection of human health and the environment, but also the most beneficial from the point of view of economics, raw-material resource and employment policy. in this we consider that we succeeded reasonably well. a second objective was to ensure that the report is explicit about the serious problems related to criminal activities and corruption in the field of waste management, in particular when toxic and hazardous waste is involved, and the need to improve monitoring by the member states in order to combat this. taking an amendment by the rapporteur for plenary into account, the report can be considered satisfactory also in this respect.
in writing. - abstentions from voting. although the report raises substantive issues in relation to the funding of programmes against gender violence, some aspects relating to issues which are subject to important debate in our groups, such as opposition to sexual and reproductive rights, or the controversial question of how to deal with prostitution, have not been sufficiently defined in my view.
in writing. - i'm with you. this report is positive for three main reasons. first, because it recognises and enhances the role of women as peacemakers, seeking to see them not only from the perspective of the victim but also from the perspective of the important role they play as peacemakers. secondly, because it calls once again for the commission to create the post of eu special representative for women, peace and security, who will be particularly concerned with women's rights during conflicts and who will defend and support women in the peace negotiation and dialogue processes. and thirdly, because it is claimed that it is important to create a code of conduct for civilian and military personnel acting in european union missions in conflict zones, mainly to make it clear that sexual violence is a crime in all its forms.
in writing. − access to energy is a fundamental requirement for reducing poverty and enabling human development. that is what this report reflects and that is why i am voting in favour. the united nations launched the goal of 'universal access to energy by 2030' in 2010. according to the international energy agency, 1.5 billion people do not have access to electricity. it is estimated that the energy required to provide energy to everyone would not entail any significant increase in global consumption or emissions. traditionally, eu support for cooperation has focused on economic growth and environmental objectives. access to energy for people living in poverty has not received the attention it deserves. it is therefore welcome that the report we have adopted today calls for universal access to energy to be one of the objectives of the eu's development and cooperation policies. the aim is to consolidate the eu's political will and financial commitment to play a major role in achieving universal access to energy by 2030.
in writing. − in favour. access to modern energy services is a fundamental prerequisite for poverty reduction and sustainable human development. energy services impact upon all aspects of people’s lives and livelihoods – without access whole communities are constrained to a life of poverty. the importance of energy access demands greater attention from the international community. to begin to address this, in september 2010 the united nations secretary general, ban ki moon, launched the target of ‘universal energy access by 2030’. he underlined the importance of energy access in poverty reduction and the role of energy services in meeting the millennium development goals (mdgs).
in writing. - i abstained on paragraph 37 because it is assumed that all developing countries have problems of safety and sustainability.
in writing. − in favour. on the positive side: clear statement (paragraph 1) based on a green amendment that the core functions of the tax systems are to finance public services, such as education, healthcare, public transport and infrastructures; protect public goods, by incentivising for example the production and consumption of environmentally-friendly products; bring down social inequalities, by ensuring a more equal distribution of income and wealth; we support the message that double taxation of businesses and individuals needs to be overcome. as for tax evasion, our very demanding amendments were condensed into a few paragraphs: generalisation and extension of automatic information exchange; notify and make public tax rulings (which would help to make company tax dodging public); and last but not least a call to the commission to establish an eu definition and list of tax havens (secrecy jurisdiction), in the absence of a meaningful international list. (a meaningful list would contain a few eu member states ...) on the negative, however: relatively weak language on the need for tax harmonisation, and a few anti-tax bits and pieces slipped into the final report (need for low taxes, contrasted with ascertainment of need for tax increases a few paragraphs further down ...).
in writing. − in favour. the report adopted in econ focuses this year on two main issues: the temporary state aid framework for the financial sector and antitrust policy. the report also contains a chapter on specific sectors as well as some specific procedural demands addressed to the commission related to its annual report on competition policy. all in all the rapporteur made an excellent good job. in contrast with other years he managed to limit the scope of the report and focused on specific and well targeted assessments and demands addressed to the commission instead of a broad and non-structured collection of general statements. most econ green amendments were integrated in compromises or voted as such.
in writing. - this morning we voted on the schwab report on the 40th annual report on the european commission's competition policy. in the debate on 15 december, i praised most of its content, but warned that it risked being seriously mutilated if it did not incorporate the aspects of collective private action so that victims of competition infringements could obtain compensation for damages. the text adopted, with an amendment co-signed by the members of the working party on competition policy, reflects the consensus in the committee on economic affairs on the guidelines to be followed by the legislative proposal on collective actions for damages for breach of community antitrust rules announced in the commission's 2012 work programme. these are, as my amendment no 29 stated, those expressed by this parliament on 29 march 2009 with regard to the white paper. the community articulation of the right to collective private action will be vital to facilitate the redress of harm caused to consumers and businesses and to ensure the effectiveness of community competition law.
member of the commission. - mr president, mr rinaldi and mrs delli have just recalled the deaths of 600 people in the last few days, a few weeks, in our various european countries, and it is good that we pay tribute to them, mr rinaldi, which shows both the scale of this tragedy and its european character. that is why i repeat on behalf of the european commission that it is right, normal and necessary for your assembly and the commission, which is in dialogue with you, to take stock of this situation and to provide a number of answers. i also want to say - and this is not necessarily the right answer, mrs guillaume - that, as you know, the first competence is that of the member states. the first requirement of a debate like this, the role of parliament and the commission, is that we should work with the member states to ensure that they assume this responsibility, each for themselves and each for all. we have seen president daul refer to the debate in which we and my colleague, dacian cioloş, participated first, on the food aid programme. why have we been stuck on this programme which is precisely about supporting the most vulnerable through so many associations to which mr daul has just paid tribute, which are not all very large associations but are local associations that do a great job? what have we come up against, ladies and gentlemen of the house? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thanks to your determination and the work of my colleague mr cioloş, we have succeeded in convincing the council of ministers. once again, i admit, madam guillaume, that it is an imperfect answer to refer to national competence. we have the ability... mr karim, mr daul and mrs zimmer have just mentioned a subject which interests me and on which i feel committed, which is what i might call universal services, basic services for people, whether it be housing, food or energy. the european union can act in this area indirectly by promoting, through its laws and regulations, the action of those closest to the ground and of the men and women who suffer. i want to take one example, or even two, in which i have been personally involved: when i presented to you, and it is now being debated in your committees, the flattening of the rules on public procurement; when my colleague almunia and i revised the state aid rules, you will find, if you look closely at these texts, which have been under discussion in parliament and the council for the last few weeks, very specific measures to promote social inclusion or basic social services through public procurement or through state aid, facilitation of social services. this is where the european union can be so useful and play its part. mrs guillaume and mrs delli both referred to the homelessness strategy which you had called for through this conference and the resolution of september 2011. i also said in reply to mr rinaldi that the commission - and this is the message i am instructed to convey to you on behalf of mr andor - has taken a number of measures and has taken into account a number of recommendations you have made: a study on mobility, migration, expropriation, a transnational project on housing strategies, which will be supported in the framework of the work on social innovation, and then also the splitting, which i mentioned, on european funds, in particular for housing with the regional development fund or other funds on the social side. the figures i have in front of me are only figures, but they are quite explicit: from 2007 to 2013, the member states have spent 10 billion from the european social fund on actions to combat social exclusion, for the benefit and service of the most disadvantaged and vulnerable. i would also like to say to mrs delli that we share her feeling about what is happening with the unbearable criminalisation of the homeless in some member states. we have seen attacks on homeless people in other countries and we call on the member states to take their full responsibility to put an end to such situations. i would also like to say to president daul that i have noted his appeal for european civil protection. it is a subject - he knows it - to which i am very attached. my colleague, mrs georgieva, is very active on this subject. we have made concrete proposals to achieve what i hope will one day be a european civil protection force to respond to catastrophic situations outside the union, but also, mr daul, to act, as needed, when all european countries are concerned by problems that affect the most vulnerable and that endanger the safety or health of a number of our fellow citizens. i think it is right, even briefly, that the european parliament, on its own initiative, together with the commission, has raised this situation with the legal, financial and political tools that we have. i think that in the serious crisis situation we are in - and this is one of the reasons why there are so many homeless people on the streets at the moment, with unemployment, as mrs guillaume has just said - there is a european dimension to this issue even if the skills are not always european. that is why, in its proper place and with the means at its disposal, the power of legislative impulse and the organization of appropriations, parliament, and with it the european commission, will continue to give a legitimate and justified european dimension to the question of the homeless.
the debate is closed.
the following is the report by antonio masip hidalgo, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council entrusting the office for harmonization in the internal market (trade marks and designs) with certain tasks relating to the protection of intellectual property rights, including the task of bringing together representatives of the public and private sectors in a european observatory on counterfeiting and piracy (com (2011) 0288 c7-0136/2011 2011/0135 cod)) (a7-0003/2012).
the rapporteur. - mr president, intellectual property infringements look like a game, but they kill the game. they remove equality in the free play of competition so that the cheaper player wins, that is, the one who does not respect the rules, the one who does not pay taxes, the one who does not respect the rights of neither workers nor customers. in this report we have overcome the term 'piracy' once and for all. we believe that the term "piracy" is misleading, because we do not understand well what its relationship is with boarding ships at sea or with the mythical corsair legends. even the offenders themselves have sometimes made a banner of this term to present themselves as champions of freedom, but their struggle is in vain because they end up serving the interests of large multinationals who want to have content without paying. we call infractions what they are: infractions. to bread, bread and wine, wine, we say in spanish. the observatory in alicante, which is already successfully managing the trade mark registry, will reveal with figures truths that do not seem so obvious to everyone. the centre will propose and, in particular, report on the situation in the sector and on compliance with the rules. the text also includes a supplementary guarantee for data protection. as the observatory will be a platform for public and private sector meetings, its composition is key. i have therefore insisted on the inclusion of the creative industries, to take account of the employment dimension in particular, and on an annual review in the management report to assess whether there is a balanced representation of the actors involved. the observatory will undoubtedly play a very important role in the indispensable monitoring of respect for intellectual property.
member of the commission. - mr president, thank you to each and every one of you for your speeches and support, even if there are legitimate questions or reservations about this observatory project. i would first like to confirm to mrs regner and mr engström that following an amendment by mr masip hidalgo, amendment no 31, civil society will have a role to play in the operation of this observatory and that this role is well recognised in the final text. this is one of the advances - i say it as i think it - which parliament has made in relation to the commission's original text. mrs mcclarkin called back, and the text has been improved, and i wanted to thank you for that. i would also like to tell mrs geringer and mrs lichtenberger that the observatory is starting to work. i'm telling you, i was in alicante all day friday; i met the small team that starts this work with a lot of competence, a lot of independence, a lot of professionalism and that will go up. i think i can say, mr wikström, thanking you for your objective expectation of the work of this observatory, that the methodology will be reliable and the work will be objective and transparent. i would also like to say to mrs mcclarkin that following amendment no 13 which has been tabled, we are avoiding duplication. this office, which is in alicante and is already working with the national regulators - i was there on friday, at the very time when there was a meeting with all the representatives of the national regulators who work with the alicante office - will make it possible to facilitate this work, to avoid this duplication with the national supervisors, and thus to do a good, intelligent job between the european office - with the european observatory - and the national supervisors. i thank mr mészáros for his support. i would like to say to mrs gallo and mr engström that this is very important work. we are approaching it with the concern to be objective and credible, and we are approaching it - and i have spoken about this with mr campinos, the very dynamic president of the trademark office of alicante - in a positive way. it's about making an objective, concrete, reliable demonstration of what intellectual property means for the economy, for growth, for jobs, and doing it in a positive way and doing it in a way that is absolutely credible. a number of economic studies will therefore be conducted, precisely on what the valuation of intellectual property represents on the economy. mr schwab, you have said it very well and, with mr masip hidalgo, you have given an example of this with this prize for young people or young entrepreneurs, it is not a question of criminalising. mr engström, you will remember that in a public debate in committee i told you that it was not my intention to criminalise or point the finger at young people but first to explain. i believe deeply in contract first rather than coercion. and so we will, starting from this economic demonstration - and this is not just about the economy, mrs flašíková or mr matula have mentioned the safety and public health problems that counterfeit products, including counterfeit medicines, can pose - proceed with this positive explanation to show the damage that piracy and counterfeiting can sometimes cause to the economy, security or health. we will therefore develop campaigns to explain the objective work of this observatory. we are also going to - mr schwab, i told you - develop joint work with the countries from which these counterfeit products come. i was in china a few days ago to talk about it. we will increase the means of technological research into detection equipment and we will also, in liaison with mr šemeta, strengthen the training of men and women working at the various external borders of europe - customs services, police - to participate in joint training on the fight against counterfeiting. this is what this observatory will do, and i believe in it, and i thank you for your support. mrs ţicău, mr baldassarre and mr karim spoke about the importance of innovation for the economy. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i attach equal importance to another subject of intellectual property protection, namely patents. we are on the verge, in a few weeks, of finally achieving, after twenty-five years of waiting, the creation, for at least twenty-five countries and i hope for twenty-seven, of a patent, a single title of protection for industrial inventions. this is part of the same support for innovation, creation and hence employment. i shall not answer mr nuttall at length, who has left the chamber, except to confirm what mrs thein has said, for which i thank her. there will be no call for public contributions because we are setting up this observatory with the support of alicante and, as you have very well said, mrs thein, the alicante office operates without public contributions, with taxes and royalties on trademarks. a million brands are protected in alicante. mr rübig was asking about small and mediumsized enterprises, as mrs băsescu did earlier. of these millions of brands, several hundred thousand, and i have seen it, are brands or designs protected by small, sometimes very small, and medium-sized companies. that is also the point, mr rübig, of being located in alicante, because there, with all the technology that is in place - open, i have been able to see - so that we can search, find and verify trademarks, we have the ability to rely on this network of small and medium-sized enterprises which are precisely the clients of the alicante trademark office. i would like to conclude, mr president, by referring to a point which mrs regner and mrs gáll-pelcz have raised, which is outside this subject but which is important: the controversy which seems to be arising and which is sometimes raised about acta. i would like to ask all members and all parties concerned to be objective and to refrain from drawing hasty or definitive conclusions on these complex subjects, because a spirit of responsibility is needed on the part of all those who are called upon to participate in the decision-making process by virtue of their respective institutional powers. i would also like to see you hold the hearing you have scheduled on acta at the beginning of march. this will be a good opportunity to get to the bottom of this matter in an objective, unemotional way - it is an important issue - so that you can make an informed decision yourself, in full responsibility. my colleague, mr karel de gucht, who is responsible for trade, will explain this in full detail in the debates scheduled for the end of february and the beginning of march in your house. i would simply like to confirm on acta, or acac in french, that the commission considers that acta would be a useful legal tool to ensure better respect and more effective protection of intellectual property rights at international level. it is an instrument designed to encourage third countries to ensure a high and balanced level of protection of intellectual property rights, equivalent to that which exists in europe. the commission has always considered that acta will not change the community acquis. the instrument will therefore not entail any obligation to amend the community acquis, either on the e-commerce directive or the directive on the enforcement of intellectual property rights. we also consider, ladies and gentlemen, that acta is consistent with the treaties establishing the european union, including - and this is a point which mrs regner raised - the european charter of fundamental rights. that is what i wanted to say on this point, thanking you for your attention and your questions, and thanking mr masip hidalgo very sincerely for the support, the support and the improvement he has brought to this text with each of you. perhaps i was thinking about this when i was listening to mr schwab. perhaps it would be useful, after the vote on this report and once the observatory is set up with the small team i met, if a number of you from all the groups could come to alicante and see how this office works. it will be noted that it is not the sun that hinders good work. i therefore suggest that a delegation of members from all the groups - and perhaps i will go with you again - should go and see how the office for trade marks and designs works and how this observatory which you are thus setting up by your decision is beginning to function.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the legal basis for the directive is established. i have tried to approach them in all their suggestions, not only in the text but also in the rhythm and the timetable which they themselves have proposed. i want to tell them that, just as they have been loyal and good collaborators, i hope to be so, humbly, in my contributions to the reports in which they will have primacy in the near future, especially mr karim, with whom i hope to collaborate very deeply. but i would also like to suggest, since we are in a context of parliamentary courtesy, to mrs lichtenberger and mr engström, who have worked so hard on this matter and to whom i have come so close, that they consider, between now and the march part-session, when this report will be voted on, their vote of abstention, decided on by prejudice and by the doubt that theory does not coincide with practice. no, let's have confidence that theory is theory and good practice. if they vote in favour, with us, and this report is adopted - i do not know if by the unanimity of all members but by the unanimity of the parliamentary groups, the heads of the parliamentary groups - we can have greater legitimacy to demand that, as mrs lichtenberger says, practice and theory are not dualism, but are one; that this can be achieved and that all of you can follow it, as i believe you deserve in your work. i would like to say, finally, that there has been no shortage of the daily outburst of euroscepticism in this parliament, which is quite embarrassing indeed, since it is not even here to hear our reply. alicante, a city and a region, cannot be criticised for being by the sea, or for being a paradise, or for being a place, as mr barnier has rightly said, of excellent work by mr campinos and his whole team. we have already visited them there: i was in charge of a delegation from the european union on that visit, and i was impressed by the work they are doing in alicante. so those who still have doubts about this matter should join the new delegation that mr barnier has encouraged us to create to visit alicante again. and i want to tell this eurosceptic that, when he was talking about something he didn't know, as mr karim very well said, i was thinking about something i know, in the english writer aldous huxley, when at the end of his great novel counterpoint, through burlap, one of his great characters, he says the biblical quote: "lord, lord, of such people is the kingdom of heaven". the fact is that people like these, who do not know what they are talking about, are also the kingdom of heaven, the kingdom of this parliament, but they will be, i hope, a qualified minority.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we know that without young people there is no future and we are also certain that, with high rates of youth unemployment, europe can be unsustainable. it is a priority to provide solutions, solutions that will not come with labor reforms like the one approved last friday in my country, which will lead our young people to more job precariousness and the demolition of rights. the reality is that europe has a youth unemployment rate of close to 23%. in my country, spain, 49% of young people are affected, many of them educated, prepared and talented, who have been expressing their tiredness and exhaustion due to the lack of solutions. we share the urgency of adopting measures to boost youth employment and to help smes, especially those created by young people. i therefore consider it a priority to adapt training to the labour market, in the understanding that a training system with more equity in the quality of education and which puts an end to the differences between public and private education will serve to stimulate creativity and innovation, thus increasing the entrepreneurial spirit, specialization and mobility of students. could the commission explain how the 10.7 billion euros which the commission has estimated will be allocated to spain will be distributed between the different funds? as for the european social fund, what percentage of the 82 billion euros still to be allocated will go to this fund? what is the actual percentage for spain? finally, how does the commission intend to involve regional and local authorities and the social partners in the action plans? i hope, commissioner, that the commission will act swiftly, decisively and effectively, because there is not a single day to lose.
the commissioner, europe has at this moment the best-educated generation of young europeans, the best-prepared generation of all time. but it's also the generation with the least employment and the worst quality of employment. we are doing something very wrong as european public authorities. at a time when a reform of cohesion policy is being discussed, the unemployment indicator, in particular the youth unemployment rate, could be one of the future indicators in addition to income. the future cohesion policy must be about creating jobs. nothing is more urgent, particularly in countries where half the young people under 25 are compulsorily unemployed. they want quality contracts, stable contracts, with fair wages, contrary to the direction proposed by some member states, such as the spanish state, with an anti-social labour reform in progress. they are the best educated generation for years, but they are offered mini-jobs, bad jobs, unemployment or even emigration. they expect more from us and the crisis cannot be the alibi, the excuse, to implement labour reforms that propose practical austerity. and as for small and mediumsized enterprises, many of them have had to close down precisely because of this crisis.
madam president, we must say it again: the food programme must be extended until 2020. the programme provides food aid to 13 million poor people in 19 member states. there are 30 million undernourished people in the union, 43 million at risk of food poverty and 80 million living below the poverty line. what we ask for - and i ask - is not charity, it's compassion and it's justice. the financial amount of eur 500 million must be maintained. the poor suffer most from the crisis, and in winter much more: homeless, extremely cold, without energy and without food, affecting the most vulnerable, children, the elderly and the sick. solidarity in the union cannot now be a dialectical resource, because then it is a negligible resource.
madam president, as you will know, the spanish financial sector has been restructured since 2009. many savings banks have been nationalised or transformed into commercial banks and some of them have received public money. the new spanish government has now opened another round of consolidation in the banking sector. i am very concerned to see a major spanish bank that has received more than eur 4 000 million of public aid going to bid for another savings bank. i am especially concerned because the new spanish government has very recently changed the rules of its bailout fund in order to let banks receiving public aid be able to absorb other savings banks that are in trouble. this policy change represents a breach of european rules on state aid and competition in the banking sector. no bank that is receiving public money should be given the chance to bid for another.
(the speaker speaks in galician and utters sentences in catalan and basque)
madam president, i welcome the election yesterday in the primaries of governor capriles as the candidate of the united democratic opposition of venezuela and i hope that the alternation can take place, if the majority of venezuelans so wish, in that beloved country, with the electoral guarantees that are acceptable in democracy. good luck to you, venezuela!
the following joint debate item is the following: - the oral question to the council on the current state of play of the proposed multiannual plan for the western hake population and fisheries for that stock, by carmen fraga estévez and pat the cope gallagher, on behalf of the committee on fisheries (o-000308/2011 - b7-0023/2012), - the oral question to the commission on the current state of play of the proposed multiannual plan for the western hake population and fisheries for that stock, by carmen fraga estévez and pat the cope gallagher, on behalf of the committee on fisheries (o-000309/2011 - b7-0024/2012), - the oral question to the council on the measures in the 2012 tac and quota regulation to exceed the scope of article 43 (3) tfeu, by gabriel mato adrover, on behalf of the committee on fisheries (o-0016/2012 - b7-0032/2012), by joão fraga estévez and pat the cope gallagher, on behalf of the committee on fisheries (o-0037/2012 - b7-0032/2012), - the oral question to the commission on the current state of play of the proposed multiannual plan for the western hake population and fisheries for that population and fisheries for that population, by carmen fraga population, by carmen fraga estévez and pat the cope population and fisheries, by the western hake population, by the western hake population, by the west of the western hake population, by carmen fraga population and fishery, by the commission (o-o-o-00308309/2011 - b7-00309 - b7-00309/2011 - b7-00309 - b7-00309 - b7-00309 - b7-0032 - b7-00308 - b
the author. - mr president, commissioner, mr minister, believe me when i say that this is my first speech as chairman of the committee on fisheries in this house and i would have liked not to have to do so, because we are not going to be talking strictly about fishing, tacs or quotas - which is very important - but about jurisdictional issues. the question i am raising on behalf of the committee on fisheries concerns the treaty of lisbon and its proper application in the field of fisheries policy and, as i said, goes far beyond a point of discrepancy. it is the commitment of the three institutions - parliament, the council and the commission - to accept the rules of the game which we have all agreed on the basis of the treaty: to take the appropriate decisions, each within its responsibilities, in the interests of the european citizens. the changes brought about by the new treaty in the decision-making process in relation to fisheries policy have undoubtedly been considerable and we can understand that some time is needed to make the necessary adjustments for the new procedures to function fully and correctly. but unfortunately, experience after more than two years since the treaty entered into force shows that there are many obstacles which - i mean deliberately - are still being put up by the council and, in some cases, also by the commission, in an attempt to prevent parliament from exercising its new prerogatives. and this is unacceptable. we in parliament cannot, under any circumstances, accept that the council should continue to act as if nothing had changed, as if parliament were a mere figurehead and the lisbon treaty and the new system of competences had never existed. mr president, commissioner, whether you like it or not, parliament cannot be excluded from decision-making in the field of fisheries policy, whether internal or external. and i'm not saying that, the treaty says that. on this occasion, once again, the council, on a proposal from the commission, has tried to use article 43 (3) of the treaty, giving it a scope which, in our view, is unacceptable, with the intention of avoiding parliament's participation in decision-making. the procedure laid down in this article clearly concerns the establishment and allocation of fishing opportunities, i.e. decisions on tacs and quotas, and only and exclusively these two aspects and not a whole series of other measures necessary for the achievement of the objectives of the common fisheries policy, which would fall within the framework of article 43 (2). as stated in the preamble to the question, technical measures such as prohibition or restricted periods and areas, restricted fishing depths and specific gear requirements cannot, under any circumstances, be covered by article 43 (3). parliament's position is very clear. we have said this for a long time: an extensive interpretation is not possible, which is clearly in contradiction with the exceptional status. our reaction, in various dossiers, has always been to seek proportional measures. we had a clash in the venezuela-guyana dossier when the council decided to go ahead without parliament's consent. we had no choice but to go to the court of justice. we also disagree with the council's blocking of the longterm plans for mackerel and anchovy and have chosen the first reading to try to seriously negotiate a second reading with the council. we have been even more tolerant, if possible, in relation to the tac and quota regulations. it has not escaped our reaction that the measure adopted in 2010 and 2011, in both cases on the basis of article 43 (3), was not appropriate. we have been insisting that a reasonable period should be allowed to elapse so that the council and the commission could work together and that they could work together in the most correct way. but of course we now realise that in this case they are still introducing a recital on certain conditions, functionally linked to the establishment and allocation of fishing opportunities, when clearly the concept of associated conditions, previously contained in article 20 of the regulation, has been explicitly omitted in the new treaty. our members have considered that time should be allowed to pass. however, we are - and i say this clearly - deeply disappointed that in 2012, the third year since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, there are still major discrepancies between what the commission proposes and the council approves, on the one hand, and what the regulation says, on the other. in my view, none of these institutions has shown any sign of being prepared to abandon, once and for all, this broad interpretation of article 43 (3) in favour of another type of procedure which is more respectful of parliament's prerogatives. in conclusion, there is unanimity in the groups, among the coordinators and among all members. we have made our position very clear in the oral questions and i would like the commission and the council to give us an equally clear answer to the questions we put to them today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, commissioner, i shall not refer to the question of competition, since it has been made clear in the speeches of my predecessors that, as from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the codecision procedure applies. it is therefore your responsibility to bring to this house a multiannual plan setting out the measures needed to make the hake fishery environmentally, socially and economically sustainable. there was already a commitment from the swedish presidency in 2009 to put forward an immediate plan by the council in 2010. we are in january 2012 and we still have only one report in which, by the way, although it has been said - and i agree - that it largely reflects the commission's views, spain does not see one of its main concerns reflected, which is to define in that multiannual plan the areas, the fisheries. because in spain, the jurel is eaten, not used for flour. it is a fresh fish that is consumed during the day and that, in addition to environmental sustainability for the ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, fishing is more than a source of high-quality protein: it is a way of life. the reform of the common fisheries policy is therefore an indicator of the european union's commitment to sustainability. it must be a reform with an overall dimension from the economic, social, territorial and environmental points of view. two out of every thousand jobs in the european union are in the fisheries sector. in communities like galicia, that percentage is multiplied by 15. it is therefore essential to achieve better jobs, an efficient and quality sector. the sector's involvement in the development of sustainable fisheries and the promotion of local development and fishing communities is also needed. the environment requires the conservation of resources, ecosystems and biodiversity. good environmental practices must be encouraged, differentiating not only small-scale fishing but also aquaculture, with extensive and traditional activities, and it is necessary to frame all this in an integrated maritime policy. there are many aspects - and the key is to recognise that fishing is a multi-sectoral and multi-functional activity - and all of these must be recognised in the reform of fisheries policy so that it brings value to the sector in the european union.
mr president, the council must accept that european policy must be based on openness, transparency and participation. these were the principles we applied in the anchovy plan which was approved by this parliament. however, the council has preferred to continue an old policy by maintaining its status quo without recognising the role that the lisbon treaty gives to parliament, with obscurantism, deciding on criteria that do not always respond to the interests of the fisheries sector and society. the commission is silent. they're forced to change their ways. otherwise, they will continue to deepen the political crisis that is the fruit of their attitudes. in the 21st century, you lead, not command, and you veto. they negotiate between you and authority and legitimacy is acquired by recognition. unlock this and other plans. recognising the role of parliament, as the challenge is to build together the future of fisheries. i am sorry to say to the council and the commission that, although they have spoken well today, they have disappointed me.
mr president, i come from a fisheries nation, galicia, where we have important fisheries communities and our economy and culture is very linked to the sea. we are very worried about the social and economic aspects of the reform of the fisheries policy, especially the implications for small-scale fisheries. how can the commission realise concrete measures to help small-scale fisheries, and especially the women and men working in fisheries communities? small-scale fisheries are an example of social, territorial and economic cohesion and are also more ecological, but the sector is very concerned about the conservation of fish on account of the pollution of waters. we had the prestige in galicia and ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, we are experiencing a profound economic crisis affecting the fisheries sector. the commissioner was just telling us that fishing is now quite sustainable. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fisheries sector. we need to be able to study the allocation of quotas more closely and to ensure that it does not have a negative impact on many european regions, including my own region, cantabria. to do that, we need all these multiannual plans. there are thousands of fishermen waiting for these institutional disputes to be resolved. fisheries is a key sector, fundamental and competitive, which has always sought to achieve a balanced solution, combining the needs of fishermen and the safeguards for the protection of species.
member of the commission. − mr president, i share all the concerns of members of parliament with reference to the fisheries sector, coastal communities and the need to be sure about growth and jobs. i was in vigo, galicia yesterday and i saw there what is happening, so i can understand everything you are saying. what can we really do? i agree with those members of this house who stressed that, in order to achieve social sustainability, we need healthy stocks. i would like to remind some members of this house of what has been happening up until now. in the past decade 30 % of jobs in the catching sector have been lost. so asking me to keep the status quo is not an option. we are going to lose more jobs. we have to change things. we have a proposal. you may disagree, but at least this is a proposal to move forward. we have to have discussions and find ways to sustain the stocks because, for example, if we reach maximum sustainable yield by 2015, many jobs will be added to the sector. i would also like to emphasise that our proposal agrees with what we have already said, namely that fisheries is not only about stocks. it is a multi-sector and we need a multi-sectoral approach. we have ancillary sectors, as many of you stressed – processing, cooking, aquaculture, we have maritime tourism, we have a lot of issues in connection with this – so we have to try to find a balance between all these activities. this is what we are trying to do through our proposal. i hope that we will have the time to discuss it in this house in the proper way. many members referred to the issue of regionalisation. i agree with you that this is of great importance. for example, mr gallagher referred to gillnets and the haddock stock. this is an issue we have to handle under codecision for the moment. we need regionalisation because, if we are going to approve the commission’s proposal – and i know that you are not happy and not satisfied with this proposal, but let me give you this example – if this proposal, our proposal, for reform were in place then the member states concerned could have these decisions as quickly as possible and the problem of gillnets would be solved. now we have to go through co-decision. there are also other issues, such as technical measures – there were a lot of references to these – which we can solve through the proposal as it stands. of course, if we can improve it we will be happy to have your ideas. regarding other points, many references were made to the need for investment in the sector. i agree with you. we have to invest but we have to invest in gear selectivity and in real modernisation of the fleet, not in increasing over-capacity. this will not give us solutions. i would agree with mr bufton, who emphasised the importance of the court of auditors’ report. yes, this is a european institution, the court of auditors, and i am very happy that you are highlighting the importance of this report. we will respect this report. that is why our proposal referring to subsidies in the sector in the future is aligned to this report. regarding the issue of morocco, which was mentioned, we have taken a decision on morocco referring to the previous protocol which was stopped by a decision of this house. this is not a spanish decision but a european decision, so it refers to everybody who has something to do with the clear ideas of this decision. my last point concerns institutional issues. i have a plea to make to the presidency. we expect the danish presidency to move ahead on this subject. parliament and the commission are both expecting the danish presidency to move on. it is not enough to refer to the previous achievements of the previous presidencies. the previous presidencies of the council did not move on this, as almost all the members of this house pointed out. we need a step forward. at the very least we need an urgent decision in order to go for a second reading and a compromise.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal. - i'm not going to lie to you. thank you very much for this important discussion. i should like to begin by thanking mr gallagher, mrs lövin, mr davies, mr stevenson and mr dodds, among others, for the invitation to resolve this important but also difficult matter concerning the multiannual plan for western horsemeckle. the council has been slow to take a position on this matter. however, as i said, progress has been made in the council on this matter recently and i expect the council to have its position very soon. the council working party will begin this work this week. the next step is the approval of a negotiating mandate in coreper. the council is then ready to work with the european parliament to find a solution to the horsemeal problem. i hope that a solution will be found which is acceptable to the european parliament, the commission and the council. we all agree that multiannual management plans must remain a fundamental instrument of fisheries management, ensuring that the important long-term conservation objectives of fish stocks are the focus. the council will therefore work with the european parliament to find a solution for both the horsemeckle plan and other multiannual plans. i therefore fully agree with mr davies and mr cadec, among others, on the need to ensure the sustainability of fish stocks. as mr davies said: 'if there are no fish, there is no fishing.' the council is fully aware of the role of the european parliament in the adoption of the objectives of the common fisheries policy, including the objectives of multiannual management plans and technical conservation measures. these objectives must be adopted jointly by the council and the european parliament, and the council attaches great importance to cooperation with the european parliament in this respect. as regards the question of fixing tacs and quotas, i would like to stress the council's strong commitment to only adopt measures which are fully in line with the relevant treaty provisions, in full respect of the role of each institution. the council will of course ensure that the reformed common fisheries policy is in conformity with the treaty and respects the prerogatives of the european parliament. this will of course also apply whatever form the procedure takes in the future. this also applies to a regionalised approach, which is currently being considered in the context of the reform. i therefore look forward, on behalf of the council, to working closely with the commission and parliament to find solutions to the important issues we have discussed today.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at noon.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, access to credit is one of the key issues for growth which we are discussing a lot and which commissioner barnier also mentioned. it must be framed in vigorous action. i am personally working on a number of points to be presented to the college on the subject of growth; one of these will be access to credit. to go into the details of your question, we have already had replies from the member states. on 3 february this year, a meeting was held in brussels with representatives of the 27 member states, at which we received answers in some cases encouraging, in others less so. for example, austria decided to transpose the directive before summer 2012; belgium before the end of 2012; bulgaria by the end of summer 2012; cyprus in the summer of 2012; the czech republic in march 2013, deadline. the same is true for denmark. estonia will adopt the directive in march 2013; finland by the end of 2012; france has given an assurance that it will implement the transposition by march 2013; germany by the first four months of 2012 (adopted by parliament); greece will wait until march 2013, as will hungary and ireland; italy on 14 november 2012; latvia in september 2012; lithuania in the autumn of 2012; luxembourg by the end of 2012; malta has not yet set a date but will certainly respect the deadlines; the netherlands in summer 2012; poland by the end of 2012; portugal by the end of march 2013; romania by march 2013; slovakia by the end of 2012; slovenia did not participate in the meeting; the spanish parliament will examine the legislative text in autumn 2012 and therefore the adoption will take place in march 2013. sweden will adopt it by the end of 2012 and the united kingdom has confirmed that the directive will be transposed in march 2013. this is all the data for the member states. i will continue to ensure that the deadlines are met, as i believe it is essential for small and mediumsized enterprises to speed up the timing, especially in times of crisis, so that they can be paid not only by the public sector but also by larger suppliers.
mr president, the philosophy of the services directive and the agreement we reached was that the labour and social law of the host country and not that of the country of origin should always apply to workers. that principle has been undermined by the current directive and the case law which has followed it, which has put at risk fundamental workers' rights and even primary rights. i have heard your replies to mrs turunen and mrs steinruck and i congratulate you because finally in march, after we have overcome the difficulties, we will have a directive and a regulation. but now, mr andor, it is not just any directive or regulation that is needed, but a directive and a regulation of quality that will solve the problems. i would like to ask you, mr andor, whether this directive and this regulation will finally reflect a reality: that the social law of the host country is always applied and never that of the country of origin, and above all that the rights of workers are not postponed to the freedom of establishment of companies?
member of the commission. − as i have already mentioned, the intention of the commission was not to reopen the original directive but to sustain it and support the implementation with a lot of clarifications. this also applies to the question of how core rights and social provisions are dealt with in the directive, because we have to distinguish between posted workers and those workers who have become integrated into the labour market of the host country. this is the fundamental distinction we have to make. it is nevertheless extremely important to ensure that what is guaranteed in the original directive is provided, and then also monitored in a transparent manner. we do indeed have to protect the rights and working conditions of posted workers as well. there also has to be closer and more reliable monitoring of those working conditions, but without undermining the practices themselves, without interventions that would threaten the free movement of services between european countries.
mr president, commissioner, i agree with what you say, but we cannot put at risk the principle that a worker must be subject to the legislation of the country where he works, a principle which must never be violated if we do not want to destroy the european social model and the hopes of the people. we will continue to help you, but the battle will not end with a regulation and a directive, but with the regulation and the directive that the european citizens are asking for.
in writing. − abstention. our three main amendments were carried: 1) on the need for the observatory to establish a transparent methodology for the collection, analysis and reporting of independent, objective, comparable and reliable data related to infringements of intellectual property rights; 2) on the involvement of relevant representatives of civil society; and 3) calling for new competitive business models that enlarge the legal offer of cultural and creative content. nevertheless, doubts remain about the aim and outcome of the observatory’s activities.
in writing. − in favour. the aim of the directive is a purely technical interconnection between the existing national registers to foster integration of the economic area. there is no harmonisation of their consequences.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it offers fishing opportunities for the eu fleet segments of areas dependent on fishing. the agreement has also had positive results in reducing iuu fishing and has brought the guinea-bissau sector closer to meeting the conditions required by the eu to market fishery products. i would like to conclude by mentioning the rapporteur's concern about the european commission's lack of consideration for parliament in delaying the possibility of parliament's approval, leaving it only to decide on approval after half the duration of the protocol. i hope that in future the commission will allow parliament to decide from the start of the procedure.
in writing. − in favour. the protocol allows vessels to fish for tuna (spain, france, portugal), shrimp (spain, italy, greece, portugal) and fish and octopus (spain, italy, greece), in exchange for payments of eur 7 million per year, of which 35 % has been earmarked for helping guinea-bissau develop sustainable and responsible fisheries. a further eur 500 000 is to improve sanitary conditions for fisheries products (currently, guinea-bissau does not meet the eu’s sanitary requirements and so cannot export fish to the eu). these are the same conditions as in the previous protocol. the renewal, however, added two elements. one is a clause that allows the eu to suspend the aid for sanitary improvements should the money not be well spent. an additional clause allows the eu to suspend all payments if ‘there has been a violation of the essential and fundamental elements of human rights and democratic principles’. the evaluation of the previous protocol, conducted by external experts, notes that several species exploited under the protocol are fished sustainably (most tuna, shrimp).
in writing. − against. until i see a credible move on the part of morocco to solve definitively the problem of western sahara, i cannot give my support to the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the kingdom of morocco, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the kingdom of morocco on the general principles for the participation of kingdom of morocco in union programmes [12712/2010 - c7-0430/2010 - 2010/0125(nle)].
in writing. − in favour. this proposal applies only to ‘inactivated vaccines’, not to live vaccines – which have been known to mutate causing undesired vaccine virus circulation. in recent years, as a result of new technology, inactivated vaccines against bluetongue have become available which do not pose a risk to unvaccinated animals. it is important that this proposal goes through as quickly as possible to enable vaccination to begin before the active midge season, when disease will spread more rapidly.
in writing. − in favour. this regulation serves the purpose of completing the single euro payments area (sepa), i.e. the creation of a payments area (including efta) in which all payments are considered domestic, meaning that the fees and complexity for sepa transactions may not exceed national standards. public attention in some member states has revolved around the issues of the rather long, new iban codes (22 digits) and country-specific issues such as elv in germany and mifs in france.
the following point is inserted after point (b) of article 2 (1) of the annex to the eea agreement: 'the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation, including the rules on the application of the provisions of this regulation to the supply of foodstuffs to the most deprived persons in the union, in accordance with the procedure referred to in article 2 of this regulation.'
mr agnew, perhaps the word ‘stupid’ does not exactly match with parliamentary courtesy.
mr president, in addition to the 80 million poor people we are talking about, there are 43 million people who have difficulty eating animal protein twice a week. in addition, this situation could be aggravated because those 'who have difficulty getting protein twice a week' could fall into the group of the desperate, as the economic crisis continues to worsen, and this is not exactly the best time for the european union to make budgetary savings in food aid for the next financial perspective period. the agreement, which the european parliament endorses, extends food aid under the conditions requested by this house itself, but this also means a certain resignation in the face of the blockade which has been maintained for several months by some member states in the council. i would like to urge all honourable members to take the necessary initiatives to revive food aid from 2014. the european parliament should not stand idly by when faced with such an important issue from a humanitarian point of view. we should not allow things to remain as they are, and we should take advantage of the negotiations on the next financial perspective period to express our views on this and to force an agreement between the council of ministers and this parliament to allow aid to the poorest to be preserved beyond that date. thanks to european aid, food banks have done a remarkable social work which should not be paralysed by the selfishness of some governments. that work has benefited 13 million people and, thanks to it, we have managed with a minimum of effort to make the common agricultural policy a little more important.
mr president, i repeat: the food programme must be extended indefinitely. our credibility is linked to solidarity issues and, in times of crisis, more. no one can or will reasonably explain a refusal. we know the disappointing, bitter figures. what poor person cares about the legal basis, or the judgment, or the cap, or the social? shall we explain it to them? i don't want to, and i can't. we do not justify not giving, ladies and gentlemen, but we want to justify taking away what we have given you, and this is truly inexplicable. i ask for justice and i ask for compassion. we cannot limit the 500 million because it is necessary. for the poor, the situation is not a crisis, it is critical and affects the most vulnerable among them: the elderly, children, the sick, the homeless, the powerless, the medically ill and the foodless. the council must react, gentlemen of the council, react. i don't see any poor people sitting on the council, mr president.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the report by james nicholson, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 as regards contractual relations in the milk and milk products sector (com ((2010) 0728 c7-0408/2010 2010/0362 ((cod)) (a7-0262/2011).
mr president, the regulation we are discussing today is not perfect, it cannot by itself solve the difficulties of a sector with structural problems and also, because of the economic context we are living in, with short-term problems. but this regulation, while not perfect, is a step forward, a decisive step in the right direction. because, although in recent times we have all realised that there is no perfect market, it was very necessary to introduce into this table, where we are also playing with people's food safety, all the elements we could of regulation and protection for our producers. it was very necessary that we should allow contracts with a minimum duration and a maximum volume to be binding, at least as a means of defence, because, of course, our producers do not have the same bargaining power vis-à-vis the distributors, the intermediaries or the harvesters. there's a lot of things to do. we must improve safety nets and make them more agile and more effective. we must focus on further integrating the sector into the value chain, ensuring that quotas are not shared, especially in certain areas, and promoting quality policy. but, without a doubt, with our vote in favour and with all that remains to be done, many farmers will be able to see today that this parliament has defended their most basic labour right: that of being able to live with dignity on the income of their work.
mr president, commissioner, this agreement contains some really interesting elements, such as the possibility for the member states to establish mandatory contracts governing volumes and minimum duration, as well as a price. but this new figure will also make it possible to fix a price between the producer and the undertakings and will be valid for at least six months. this brings more stability - it is true - and more profit to the producer. but this is only a step, commissioner. the truth is, commissioner, that the industry in the sector continues to abuse its bargaining position, driving down producer prices - leading to the ruin of the sector - and subjecting producers to uncertainty and mortgaging their future. i have just spoken to producers in my region, cantabria, and the situation - you know it very well - is very complicated, very difficult, and i hope that more measures will be taken in the future to really help this sector.
mr president, the reform proposed by the commission will not solve the tragic situation of many european farmers, as in my own country, galicia, because production continues to be concentrated in large industrial farms, which cause a huge social, environmental and territorial disaster. in some cases, even past agrarian reforms, particularly in the milk sector, have led to modernization in the sector, which is now unable to cope with the fall in milk prices. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quota is not exceeded. the public authorities must support these concentrated dairy groups, which are of course much larger than the image of a simple contract between large companies.
on behalf of the green group, i should have spoken earlier as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on fisheries. i was responsible for that opinion; i suggested in the opinion that we follow mr bové's recommendation and therefore reject the agreement, but when we voted the fisheries committee did not follow my recommendation by two votes: it approved the agreement, which is why i had to withdraw my name from that opinion. i think that some of the colleagues who voted against then - and i look at my colleague mr mato - will do something different tomorrow - i hope. and in any case, i would be very grateful if i could 'insist' on many of the reasons mr bové has given, which i would also like to summarize and make my own. the first and most important point is that we have insisted, both politically and legally, that this agreement should explicitly exclude the territories of western sahara. it is something that other agreements, for example with the united states, already do. so we wouldn't be inventing anything; it's possible. so in this sense, just because of this, we already have a substantive problem in supporting this agreement. but beyond that - and i repeat, it is not the only reason - we believe that this agreement must be renegotiated to adapt it to the needs of sustainable economic and social development and to promote regional integration. we also ask the commission to adopt a strategy which takes account of the challenges of the 'arab spring'; we believe that this is also essential. but the agreement should also promote regional integration and the strengthening of the democratic political space. i'm not sure that's the case. the protection of the environment, of resources, of the right pay for producers and of sustainable jobs should be considered; i am not sure that this is the case either. finally, i believe that the consequences of increased export production should not lead to an increase in child labour in the agricultural sector, as is unfortunately happening at the moment.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, my group will follow the rapporteur's suggestions, mr bové, because you, ladies and gentlemen of the commission and the council, know perfectly well that this agreement will benefit european multinationals and the very few people who concentrate their property in morocco, including the royal house of morocco. this agreement is going to be a real tsunami for small and mediumsized farming here and there. and you continue to ignore, despite the arab spring, what should be considered as fundamental in relation to trade, which is the democratic and social quality of products. and they don't take it into account. morocco is cited as an example. what a great example! in the last elections, 22% of voters participated, and demonstrations continue in the streets. they are still on the streets, but you do not see or hear them, because the only ones they want to privilege are the european food multinationals, which are ruining small and medium-sized mediterranean production - in general in europe - and the small and medium-sized property of morocco, which is very small, by the way, and of course western sahara. once again, ladies and gentlemen of the commission and council, are you going to violate international law? doesn't that bother you? doesn't it bother you that they include territory that isn't morocco? they don't care. gentlemen, a little more dignity and a little more respect for international law.
mr president, our colleague mr bové's report has well pointed out the disastrous consequences of approving this agreement. because the present agreement, which extends the quotas for certain fruit and vegetables, is completely meaningless if its figures are not respected. it should be remembered that the spanish federation of fruit and vegetable producers and exporters denounced to the committee on petitions, precisely of this parliament, the massive entry of tomatoes through perpignan, at a price lower than that set out in the agreement. illegal situations such as the one described place the european farmer in a position of competitive disadvantage. it should also be added that our farmers have to respect strict quality, environmental and social standards which are not always respected by our moroccan partners. i would like to end by mentioning the sahara. the sahara is an autonomous territory under the united nations charter and the exploitation of its resources must have an impact on the local population. moreover, the united nations does not recognise the sovereignty of the kingdom of morocco over that area. the european union must ensure that international law is respected. i am in favour of an agreement with morocco, in favour of an agreement which establishes rigorous control mechanisms from the european union in relation to quotas and prices, an agreement which fights against dumping, which does not exploit the moroccan farmer and, above all, which gives dignity to our european farmers. that is certainly not the case with this agreement.
mr president, we are in a debate in which the european parliament must give a clear political signal. and this signal must be twofold: first, to promote agreements that promote socially, economically and ecologically sustainable agricultural models; second, that international law and respect for the human and collective rights of the saharawi people are respected. the agreement favours an export model which is detrimental to both small farmers in southern europe and those in morocco. it benefits only large companies and investment funds, which evade european social and environmental standards. the agreement contains no social, labour or environmental clauses, speculates on food and encourages unfair competition. the small farmers in europe and morocco are being forgotten and are not guaranteed their right to produce, so they will end up being cheap labour for the multinationals, the real beneficiaries of this agreement. and finally, under international law, we are faced with an unresolved political problem of decolonization. of course we are in favour of the democratization of morocco, of course we support the demands of the 'arab spring', but that cannot be the alibi to pressure us to vote in favour of an agreement which does not even include the fact that western sahara should be excluded from its application. the territory of western sahara, its natural resources, its raw materials, belong to the saharawi people. neither morocco nor the european union has the legitimacy to negotiate on them. while in their occupied territories fresh tomatoes are planted and exported and in their sea fresh fish is caught and exported, sahrawi children eat canned fish and concentrated tomatoes. we must not therefore vote in favour of an agreement which consolidates this unfair situation. a strong political response is needed from the commission, the council and parliament in favour of the self-determination of the saharawi people, to put an end to the marginalization of saharawi women and men and their collective rights as a people. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue card question. i have a report on tomatoes in various areas which i can pass on to you on your way out.
mr president, the feeling of hundreds of thousands of farmers in many regions of spain is summed up in a simple but powerful word: 'no'. we say 'no' to an agreement which is not balanced; 'no' to an agreement which does not provide a single guarantee that customs duties will be paid and which does not prevent fraud; 'no' to an agreement which allows unfair competition with our producers, forcing them to abandon their crops. in short, a 'no' to the disappearance of fruit and vegetable producers in regions such as andalusia, murcia and the canary islands, among others. but our 'no' should not surprise us, it is a coherent 'no' as was the 'yes' to the fisheries agreement. we have not changed course, we are defending today the same thing we defended in the committee on agriculture last july. so we voted against it, and we will vote against it again next thursday because nothing has changed. now, let no one understand that this is a 'no' against the kingdom of morocco, which is the preferred partner and must remain so in the future. morocco is not responsible, although it is the beneficiary, for the european commission's inability to cope with the amendment of the entry price regulation. finally, today's 'no' is also a 'yes'; a resounding 'yes' to our farmers; a 'yes' to reciprocity and strict respect for agreements; a 'yes' to good relations between the european union and third countries; a 'yes' to being able to continue to grow; and, finally, a 'yes' to the fact that the differences are marked by quality and not fraud.
mr president, last year the committee on petitions of the european parliament asked the european commission to amend the system of prices for fruit and vegetables entering the union, a system which is facilitating the fraudulent entry of products from third countries, as the european anti-fraud office, olaf, itself states. they're mostly moroccan tomatoes. the same request was made in a declaration signed last year by the governments of spain, france and italy. we can fight this fraud by amending the regulation implementing the common customs tariff for agricultural products, because the alignment of the customs code does not solve the problem, mr commissioner. for several years now, i have been advocating within the people's party the need to suspend further concessions to morocco until the european union has the necessary instruments to ensure compliance with the agreement in force. the european commission argues that it is the member states who should ensure control of imports. what the commission does not say, however, is that the entry price system prevents the national customs authorities from properly tracing the prices declared by importers to check for the absence of irregularities. amend the regulation implementing the common organization of the market in agricultural products and we shall have part of the problem solved, because otherwise the legal loophole in european legislation prevents the national authorities from doing their job properly.
mr president, the spanish socialist delegation is concerned about farmers, especially fruit and vegetable growers. the spanish socialist delegation presented the commission with five essential proposals which it considered essential for the agreement to be approved. one was the regulation of entry prices 14 years ago. the commission itself has now replied to us by saying that it can be done within the framework of the cap, but the market collapse can now take place at the entrance. the kilo of oranges is being produced at 26 euro cents. another proposal was the control of quotas - and not just the control of quotas, but also the volume of exports not subject to quotas - which often plunges the market in those more restrictive months. the third proposal was an impact study on how it affects the income of farmers in the european union. do you know that the average income of a farming family in spain is equal to the inter-professional minimum wage? that is a very important question. fourthly, the reciprocity of plant protection: reciprocity. and finally, compensation if farmers are affected. we shall also be voting on a resolution tabled by the socialist group which contains all these demands. in an amendment tabled by mrs de keyser and myself, we ask for compensation for damage to farmers if it occurs, but we do not want compensation for damage as a charity, we want the dignity of farmers, including europeans. we have therefore submitted these five proposals to the commission, which we hope will accept them now or in the future. we shall therefore not vote in favour of the agricultural agreement with morocco at this stage, because we consider these five elements to be essential.
mr president, i would like to say briefly that i share the view expressed by my fellow delegates, mrs herranz garcía and mr mato adrover, that this agreement with morocco is clearly harmful, clearly harmful to european agriculture in general and, in particular, to spanish agriculture and its producers. it is an agreement whose quotas and entry prices have been the subject of constant violation by morocco. that is why we shall vote against it. however, as a full member of the committee on international trade, i would like to say that my vote does not mean that i am against opening trade negotiations with morocco, but that my committee will continue to work to promote trade relations with third countries, promoting trade and investment as engines of growth.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i am delighted that parliament and the council have reached agreement on the radio spectrum policy programme. as you know, the council confirmed this last december and i am confident that parliament will do so tomorrow. i want in particular to praise the efforts made by the rapporteur. for me it is ‘spectrum gunnar’ – not ‘speedy gonzalez’, but ‘spectrum gunnar’. mr hökmark and the shadow rapporteurs were of great help, and the chair was also of great help in achieving this result. adopting this programme is a significant step forward. we know the importance of spectrum for the digital world. for instance, mobile data usage in europe is almost doubling every year – driven by a rocketing smartphone market and increasing demand for online audiovisual content. in that world, constraints on spectrum availability are constraints on economic growth, as has rightly been said, and would make it harder to reach our target of broadband for all. this programme opens the door for significant achievements in the coming years. first, by 2013, we will open the key 800 mhz band for next generation wireless communications. second, we will create a european inventory to support efficient spectrum use, using it to identify by 2015 at least 1 200 mhz of harmonised spectrum for wireless broadband. third, we will guarantee competition in the use of spectrum. fourth, we will meet the need for spectrum in sectors like transport, energy, the environment, earth observation, civil protection and the internet of things. fifth, we will support member states and enhance eu coordination in international spectrum negotiations. the 2012 world radiocommunications conference (wrc) in geneva, which is going on as i speak, is a good example. i would remind you that, without affecting the compromise, the commission has attached three statements to the council minutes. let me now briefly update you on the ongoing negotiations in geneva. clearly i cannot give you a full assessment until after proceedings are complete, later this week. that full assessment will be covered in a staff working paper to be presented to you very soon. however, at this stage it seems probable that the eu’s objectives, as highlighted in particular in parliament’s resolution of last september, should broadly be achieved, particularly those on the need for more broadband spectrum, on protecting galileo, and on short-range devices. a new issue also arose during the wrc negotiations relating to the possible use of the 700 mhz band for wireless broadband, based on a proposal by african and arab countries which did not want to wait until 2015 to have a discussion on this subject. this is obviously a sensitive issue, but the programme discussed today gives us the policy line and tools to deal with it. remember, tomorrow’s economy will be digital. a coherent spectrum programme provides the rails on which that economy will run. to ensure significant success, i invite the honourable members of this parliament to approve the council’s position, in line with the compromise reached on 24 october 2011.
i would like to congratulate mr hökmark and the other rapporteurs, and especially mrs trautmann, on their work and contribution to what we could call the first common european vision on spectrum distribution. i know that this has not been an easy task, since this distribution was traditionally reserved for the member states, and i can imagine how difficult it has been to get the council to sit down at the negotiating table. there is currently a growing demand for wireless services that require spectrum and this is limited. we must therefore ensure that it is allocated efficiently and guarantees access to the most innovative services. my group welcomes the main points of the agreement, some of which have just been mentioned by commissioner kroes: the allocation of the 800 band for broadband internet services to all member states by 2013; the obligation to devote at least 1 200 megahertz to mobile data traffic by 2015; and the taking of an inventory of current spectrum use to look for new opportunities for harmonisation and more efficient use of spectrum. these measures will allow for new uses of spectrum while contributing to the bridging of the digital divide. this is a step towards the goal of ensuring access to a high-speed internet connection for the entire population, as defined in the digital agenda. finally, i would just like to recall that my group has stressed the need to strike a balance between the demands of telecommunications operators and the need for broadcasters to retain their frequencies. our purpose has always been to ensure cultural diversity. in short, this agreement is our commitment to reducing the digital divide and to providing telecommunications operators with guarantees for investments in a sector with great potential to contribute to europe's economic recovery.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again the debate on a summit. many have been held, all announced with great fanfare, trying to create an expectation that is getting smaller every day. they are losing credibility because they are not helping to solve the crisis. summits where, over and over, the same agreements are repeated. it must be understood that, as long as there is no progress in political union and in strengthening this parliament and the executive power of the european commission, the summits will be repeated, but the economic crisis will be aggravated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these amounts can easily be used to combat the unemployment figures of young european citizens.
mr president, mr commissioner, after the last council meetings, mr adenauer's statement that 'we all live under the same sky but none of us has the same horizon' seems to be losing weight in favour of building this common space which is the european union. the most important thing, however, is that we must actively implement the measures agreed at the last council. so far, the measures which seem to be being implemented most rapidly are those of authorship. but i will insist a thousand times and as many times as necessary in this house: austerity alone will get us nowhere, we need growth. these tough but fundamental adjustment programmes must be accompanied by the reforms needed to generate growth and jobs. so far spain is leading the way in this comprehensive plan of austerity and reform. the three major reforms adopted - budgetary stability, financial system reform and labour reform - bear witness to this. these reforms have earned him the recognition of various governments and the media, despite the obstacles that are being put from other parts by launching unfounded rumors. these started with sport and yesterday threatened to spread to our economy and our politics. let's keep working for the same horizon.
mr president, the council and the commission have told us what is on the agenda for the next meeting: growth, international summits, serbia, the arab spring - all very important topics. but i think it is time for the council to address, perhaps in a monographic way, the serious risk situation to which the european political project as such is heading: the growth of euro-phobic parties in northern and central europe; the temptations to close the area of free movement - we thank the new danish government for having avoided exclusion from schengen -; the temptations to exclude citizens of the union from the east, as in the case of the dutch party website; the values of the union are put at risk in countries such as hungary or romania. the commission has told us that, so far, we have acted as fire extinguishers in the economy. it is not a question of putting out fires in the union from a political point of view, but of trying to prevent them.
blue card question. what is it? i would like to ask mr lamberts whether his group would be prepared to join our group in calling for young people to be given help in finding work, but a decent job, because if they turn from unemployed young people to poor workers, we are not going to give them a future with the hope that they will be able to socialize properly.
mr president, madam minister, mr commissioner, our objective in the field of employment and social affairs must remain the europe 2020 strategy, but unfortunately, and partly because of the wrong policies of previous governments, some countries, including my own, no longer have room for manoeuvre and have no choice but to implement very rigorous budgetary adjustment programmes to deal with the sovereign debt crisis. unemployment is reaching unacceptable levels - especially among young people - and in some countries it is getting worse. the situation of poverty and the risk of social exclusion have increased considerably. it is more necessary than ever to reorient spending towards growth and job creation and to avoid cuts in social security contributions which further aggravate the situation of the weakest. fiscal consolidation is a necessary but not sufficient condition for exiting the crisis. fiscal consolidation, growth and job creation must go hand in hand. integrated active inclusion strategies, measures to support sustainable job creation, especially for young people, and finally, undertaking the reforms that our labour markets need, as is being done in spain at the moment, should be priority elements in national programmes and in the social policy of the european union.
mr president, commissioner andor, yesterday commissioner olli rehn welcomed a reform in spain which enshrines free and uncompensated dismissal for the hundreds of thousands of young people who will be affected. does he not think, commissioner, that the time has come to say that the european social charter protects workers against arbitrary dismissals, that it is not good for young people to go from being unemployed to being poor workers, that the time has come to say that we want jobs but we want jobs with dignity and rights for our young people?
member of the commission. − mr president, i am grateful for the opportunity to have heard members’ views on the commission’s 2012 annual growth survey. first, i believe there is a broad convergence of views on the key policy priorities for 2012, on the higher priority for growth and the urgency of reform implementation, and on the fact that we should take action on employment and not just talk. i think there is an agreement that we have to work for improved consistency between the long-term objectives for economic and social development as explained in the europe 2020 strategy, and short-term measures to create stability in europe and particularly in the euro area. this convergence of views is comforting for the commission. i believe that political support from the elected representatives of european citizens for these policy priorities will enhance the credibility of the relevant reforms and thus have a positive impact on confidence. however, based on different political views and approaches, there are differing approaches and emphasis on particular instruments – how exactly we should approach our goals for economic growth and job creation. let me give you the commission’s view on what exactly we think needs to be done for growth and particularly for more jobs in this period. in the discussion i think there was sufficient attention and appreciation for the youth opportunities initiatives, and i am grateful for the positive remarks on this commission document, in which we relaunched the campaign for a youth guarantee in europe. i would like to thank those such as mr őry, ms bastos and ms gurmai who mentioned this youth guarantee in a positive light, because i believe this is a very important measure. the commission can provide technical support for the member states which are ready to go down this road. i also believe it is very important, as many participants in the discussion stressed, to improve education and training according to the needs of the labour market in order to create a better match between the supply of and the demand for labour. these aspects will be covered in the country-specific recommendations at the end of this semester. however, as we needed to update and upgrade the youth on the move flagship initiative in the form of the youth opportunities initiative, we are also working on an upgrade and an update of our employment policy in the form of an employment package to be presented in april. this will respond to and connect with many issues which you stressed in the discussion, such as how flexicurity policies are helping to develop the european labour market following denmark’s inspirational example, but also how we want to work more effectively in order to create green jobs, because this is one of the areas where employment will increase in the coming period. we have to ensure that green jobs also appear in europe and not only in other continents, where this is also a priority. in addition to green jobs, we also have to look at white coat jobs in the health and care sector and the ict sectors, which will be a bigger employer in the future. this employment package will also deliver the quality framework on traineeships which many of you called for. i share the view that we have to do a lot more – and do it more effectively – to ensure quality jobs and opportunities for young people, and this quality framework will be a key instrument in addressing this. there is a need to do more for enterprise, including for smes. i think this is again an important point – but let us see what the real bottleneck is in the context of enterprise and smes. perhaps we can do more for smarter regulation – efforts are also being made to streamline regulation inside the commission – but i believe the real bottleneck is finance. we have to ensure that the banking sector gives more support to enterprise and smes, and we can also promote a microfinance facility. this has already been introduced in about one third of the member states, and my services are working with other member states to introduce the progress microfinance facility in a more rapid manner and support smes across member states. let me also say that in my view the greatest challenge at this time in terms of economic governance is to deal with the increasing polarisation within the european union. it is not simply about diversity. we have already learned and applied the principle that there is no one size that fits all: we have to take differences into account. but we are now experiencing something which is more serious than that: an increasing asymmetry – a polarisation – between member states that are relatively strong financially and economically, in terms of employment performance and social stability, and other member states – largely those on the periphery – where all this is more difficult and where, instead of recovery, many member states experienced a recession this year and the risk of losing a generation. for many of these member states, like ireland, portugal and greece, there is significant out-migration, which also means out-migration from europe, because young people do not see the opportunities and they do not see them returning in the coming years. i am also grateful for the comment from latvia, because this also demonstrates that, although some stability has been restored, this example should not be used as a model for other countries, especially the southern countries looking for an exit from recession and financial instability. i would like to stress that the european semester is a learning process for all parties involved. with the help of the european parliament, important lessons have been drawn from the first european semester, and presenting the annual growth survey earlier has left much more room for debate this time round. the commission has done this because it recognises the importance of open debate and democratic accountability for the success of the european semester. the commission is keen to contribute to strengthening the strategy’s governance – notably through improved monitoring of employment and social targets – and to bolster the political ownership that is vital for its success. this is very much about sustaining the europe 2020 strategy and its content and its objectives – together with numerical targets – instead of abandoning them. in addition to being involved, we also need you to help us strengthen our links with the national parliaments in order to anchor our 2020 objectives in national political agendas as well.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, if i am asked by the press when i leave this assembly what was the focus of the debates there will be one answer: youth unemployment. that has been the key word from every speaker in this debate on growth and unemployment that has lasted over an hour. this is a key issue and we have to find ways to address it. it is important to grasp all the nuances here because there is no necessary contradiction between consolidation and growth. it is all a question of priorities: very hard, very difficult priorities in our budgets. we can no longer just discuss this and ask: ‘who is going to spend the next million or the next billion’? we have to discuss how we are spending in general and make sure that we get our priories right; that is important in any parliament, that is important in the european parliament. do we have our priorities right? i think that is a key question and answering it entails a great deal of conflict, because if we want to change our priorities we will have to have debates that actually change things and concern the people who are the beneficiaries of the present budget and the present way of spending. another issue is the fact that greening our economy is part of the answer. i know that some people think that we will have to wait, but greening our economy is part of the answer: being more efficient in the way that we use our resources and, in so doing, creating more space for the most important resource we have: human beings. it is very important to take note of the commission’s five priorities because they are important steps in actually reaching the goals of europe 2020. we must make sure that we pursue differentiated, growth-friendly fiscal consolidation. second: we must restore normal lending to the economy because smes cannot create jobs if they cannot borrow, if their credit line is cut. so normal lending is very important. third: we must promote growth and competitiveness for tomorrow. a lot of the proposals already tabled are heading in exactly that direction. fourth, as we have been discussing today, we must tackle unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis. and fifth – perhaps an undervalued point – public administration must be modernised to make sure that we actually help enterprise to create jobs. these are the important issues and i think that labour market reforms should also be understood as a way of facilitating young people’s entry to work, making sure that they are actually taken on by enterprises and giving them a chance to show that they can actually participate, and that their work is also beneficial to their enterprise. last but not least, this is an important debate because it forms part of a long series of debates that parliament has held in the past and which we will continue to have in the future. solving the crisis is a very long and very demanding task for everybody. it takes cooperation and when we discuss solutions – be it some of the things that i have mentioned, some of the things mentioned by the commissioner or a number of the things mentioned in the three reports that we have been discussing today – a major challenge is to make sure that we cooperate. i am very much looking forward to continuing cooperation with parliament on the proposals already tabled, and making sure that we can make it obvious that there is no necessary contradiction between wise consolidation and growth within the european union.
ms regner, yes, you are right. gentlemen should always wait for questions from ladies. joking apart, you are quite right that members should wait if there is a blue-card request, so we take good note of your remark and we will act accordingly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, ms berès, i am sure you know that the multiannual financial framework adopted on 29 june 2011 provides for future food aid for the most deprived people to be funded under heading 1, where it fits most appropriately with the poverty reduction target of the eu2020 strategy. the commission will in due time exercise its right of initiative to translate the outcome of the mff discussions into action, because the right of initiative belongs to the commission.
the voting is closed.
ms gáll-pelcz, next time remember that you must register for an explanation of vote before the explanations of vote start. you registered when we had already started and according to the rules you must do it before, so remember next time.
mr president, the political signal that parliament has sent with this report on the distribution of food to the most deprived people is very important at this time of economic crisis which is affecting people who did not cause the crisis but are suffering from its consequences. that is why i voted for this report, which concerns the poorest people but also the local and regional authorities, who in many cases are the main distributors of food aid.
i come from a milk-producing country, galicia. nowadays, the galician agro is specialized in the production of milk, which is mostly collected and processed by foreign companies. here, as in other european countries, the agricultural sector survives today thanks to a strong investment in innovation in order to be able to compete in the single market. when the spanish state joined the european union, 20% of employment in galicia was in the primary sector. today, that percentage has been reduced by more than half. my country is suffering traumatic sacrifices in favour of other more powerful states because the allocation of milk quotas has been far below production capacity. i am voting against this report because the award of contracts in this report is only directed at the large dairy industry, as it does not require price increases in production costs and payments to producers to pay fairly for their work to be included in the contracts. without public control of production to ensure a match between supply and demand, producers will face price volatility and the ruin of thousands of farms. it is unacceptable that the commission does not have an up-to-date study on the impact of quotas.
in writing. − in favour. the association agreements with iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland set up a mixed committee consisting of representatives of the governments of the associated states as well as of the council of the european union and the commission of the european communities. consequently, the representatives of the associated states attend mixed committees, which meet in the form of council working groups enlarged by the representatives of the associated states. participation in the mixed committee gives the associated states the opportunity to voice, in good time, any concerns they might have regarding developments of the schengen acquis, which must be adopted by all the associated states, and the implementation of this acquis. after discussion in the mixed committee, the measures taken to develop the schengen acquis are adopted by the council and by the european parliament through the appropriate decision-taking procedure laid down in the treaties. thus, the associated states participate in decision-shaping but not in decision-taking.
in writing. - i voted against this report because i do not share the spirit of the annual survey on growth and employment for 2012 presented by the european commission. the proposed solutions will not help to tackle the crisis, nor will they prevent a widespread recession across the eu, but will worsen the effects of the crisis, increasing social inequalities, poverty, unemployment and the impoverishment of eu citizens. this study, as well as the eu's initiatives, are in line with the neoliberal policies that have brought us to the crisis. in the name of restoring confidence in markets, competitiveness and growth, wages are being cut, the european social model is being destroyed and citizens' basic rights are being violated.
in writing. − this report sends a positive political signal to the most disadvantaged people who are suffering firsthand from the crisis. the number of people living in poverty has increased exponentially in europe as a result of the crisis, and that is why i voted in favour of this report, because i believe it can be a temporary help for those people. the solution is not charity, but structural change, abandoning the neoliberal policies that have brought these people into poverty, and promoting a social europe, a europe that puts its citizens at the centre of its concerns, and puts european resources at the service of the well-being of its citizens, and not of big business and the financial sector.
in writing. − in favour. the current vote offers a solution for the coming two years, so that the 18 million people who are dependent on the programme are not suddenly left without food. the two years are meant to be used as a transition period, in which the foodbanks can prepare themselves for a future without direct food aid from the eu. however, the debate is polarised between those who want to see it continue indefinitely and those who would like it to stop as soon as possible. the danger is that foodbanks will do nothing and we will be faced with the same problem in two years’ time. the greens advocate a constructive alternative. for the longer term, we want structural solutions to food security and alleviating food poverty. ultimately the aim is that foodbanks are redundant, because poverty would have been eradicated.
in writing. − in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multi-annual radio spectrum policy programme (2010/0252(cod)).
in writing. - i voted against this report because the proposed reform does not provide solutions to the problems that caused the crisis in 2009. without public regulation of production, the bargaining power of producers will not be strengthened. production will continue to be concentrated on farms that are bigger and bigger, more and more industrialized, to the detriment of sustainable family production and maintaining production in all the dairy regions of europe. with this reform, the dumping of our surplus milk to third countries will continue. it is time for regulation, not for contractual service to industry in a deregulated market. another milk policy is indispensable, one which gives priority to the regulation of production - a necessary condition for a stable and fair milk price - and to sustainable milk production based on forage production in the different regions and linked to the land.
in writing. − against. the idea of increasing the bargaining power of farmers in the food chain vis-à-vis ever more concentrated market power of processors was good in principle. also the proposal to increase transparency of costs of production in the various sectors and regions was positive. however, the negotiations within the committee on agriculture for a first reading agreement step by step dropped the more concrete ideas of making a fair contracting framework obligatory in the member states and limiting the market power and unfair price policy throughout the eu. we made a number of proposals to strengthen the position of milk farmers and to introduce measures against the market power of the milk processors and supermarkets like the price monitoring agency and specific support for local and sme processing, but without success. the measures and contracts as suggested in this report will not solve the imminent new milk crisis.
in writing. − the 2009 crisis, together with the price volatility and distortions in the functioning of the milk market detected in recent years, led me to raise the need for deep reforms in the functioning of the sector's value chain and the responsibility of the european parliament to promote them, given its status as co-legislator on agriculture after the lisbon treaty. the adoption today of the regulation on contractual relations in the milk sector is an important step in the right direction and advances the reform of the cap. it gives producers, through their organisations, the possibility of negotiating collectively and favours inter-branch organisations. the new contracts will provide more stability and fairness in competition. the new framework will enable the most efficient farms to grow in the future and will also boost product diversification and quality improvement. in the spanish case, it allows the full effectiveness of the dairy decree of last april which anticipates this orientation. the beneficial effects of the new model are felt in galicia, where 45% of milk production is already marketed under approved contracts, which have helped to bring prices closer together.
in writing. - despite the improvements that the new regulatory framework brings to remedy the shortcomings of the european dairy sector, i voted against it because there are still many gaps that will not allow the imbalance of negotiating powers in the supply chain between farmers and dairies to be resolved. the legislative reform is part of the expiry of the quota system in 2015, which is not our preference, since there are other models in countries with a situation similar to the european market where the quota system and supply management work satisfactorily and benefit producers, industry and consumers in a more balanced way, avoiding concentrations of power in one sector of the chain.
in writing. - own-initiative reports are an important instrument for the european parliament to give its opinion to the other european institutions in cases where codecision is not applied. in this case, i voted against the ilchev report because the rapporteur proposes changes which limit the possibility for members to participate on an equal footing in these reports. i am referring in particular to the limitation of separate votes and rollcall votes in such reports and to the necessary condition that the report imposes for amendments to be tabled, namely that they must be signed by at least one tenth of the members.
in writing. − in favour. own-initiative reports that are not subject of a key debate are currently not considered strategic or to have been drawn up pursuant to ep’s right of initiative and may only be amended in plenary by the rapporteur to take account of new, objective information or by one tenth of the members of the ep (74). groups may only table alternative resolutions. whether groups may or may not table split, separate and roll-call votes has been a contentious issue and is the reason why this question has been referred to the committee on constitutional affairs. our group has taken the line that it believes that the tabling of split, separate and roll-call votes should remain possible for groups. we wanted to maintain the possibility for split, separate and roll-call votes for all own-initiative reports, and we got this.
in writing. − i share the european commission's concern at the continuing tensions in the euro area sovereign bond markets, reflected in rising spreads, high volatility and vulnerability to speculative attacks over the past two years. and i might even share that it might be interesting to issue eurobonds for the eurozone. but i cannot accept that the issuing of these notes should be subject, as the resolution advocates, to a budgetary framework geared to economic governance, to a binding programme similar to the maastricht criteria, to budgetary discipline and to increased competitiveness. nor do i see eurobonds as an additional means of encouraging compliance with the stability pact. that is why i voted against.
in writing. - this report is complementary to the gauzès and berès reports. and i voted against it in the same way. the report details the effects and consequences of the crises and lists well-intentioned demands such as: decent wages and work, reconciliation of personal and professional life, redistribution of wealth through progressive taxation, fight against tax evasion, gender equality. now, to do this, it extends the recipe of "more of the same", of insisting on the neoliberal policies that have brought us to the current situation: deepening the liberalization and structural reforms of the labor market, with the flexibilization of work and working hours, to improve a conducive environment for business, all this through national reforms in the sense of the objectives set in the strategy 2020 and in the process of economic governance. in short, a disaster: changing everything so that everything stays the same. i am not going to endorse these policies and the neoliberal orientation of the eu in any way with my vote.
in writing. − in favour. on 23 november 2011, the commission presented its 2012 annual growth survey (ags) (com(2011) 815), which marked the opening of the second european semester of economic governance. the ags sets out what the commission believes must be the eu’s priorities for the coming 12 months in terms of budgetary, economic, employment and social policies and reforms. in this framework, the ags calls for national and eu efforts to be concentrated on five priorities in the areas of fiscal policy, financial sector stabilisation, growth and competitiveness, employment and social consequences of the crisis, and public administration. the ags’s analysis and main messages are underpinned by four annexes: (1) a progress report on europe 2020, (2) a macro-economic report, (3) an employment report and (4) a report on tax policies.
in writing. − the annual foresight study for 2012 sets out the commission's priorities for the next 12 months in economic and budgetary terms. his presentation marks the opening of the second european semester of economic governance. i voted against the berès report because the solutions proposed, instead of turning the eu's neoliberal policies around and changing their direction, insist on them, without realizing that it is these kinds of policies that have brought us into the crisis. the european commission is thereby mortgaging the future of eu citizens and condemning them to more unemployment, poverty, inequality and social exclusion, while the perpetrators of this crisis emerge unscathed, if not reinforced, from it.
in writing. − in favour. the outcome of the draft report was acceptable. the initial draft report contained some controversial elements which were mostly watered down and transformed into more consensual points. in addition, most key green amendments survived the negotiation process, including the good following elements where the ep: - takes note of the new legislative proposals on economic governance; believes that such proposals should offer the opportunity to enhance the role of the european parliament regarding the definition and implementation of economic policy surveillance procedures within the european semester framework in conformity with the provisions of articles 121 and 136 of the treaty; recalls that, in the current context, where several member states are confronted with stringent and difficult choices in terms of allocation of public resources it is urgent to ensure the consistency of different economic policy instruments and in particular policies conducive to respect for eu 2020 objectives and headline targets on an equal basis; and recalls in that perspective the need to explicitly identify, assess and address spill-over effects of member states’ economic policies as well as to carry out social impact assessments of economic policy instruments included in the eu semester framework.
the explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 2.10 p.m. and resumed at 3.05 p.m.)
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, i am grateful for the opportunity to present the eu position and latest activities on syria on behalf of the high representative, baroness ashton. the eu condemns the totally unacceptable escalation of violence in syria. the time has come to speak with one voice and demand an end to the bloodshed and a democratic future for syria. the eu has been leading international calls for strong un action. we are very disappointed, as you all are, by the recent failure of the united nations security council to adopt a resolution due to russia and china’s renewed veto. last saturday, following the vote, the high representative once again stressed that the eu will continue to support all efforts by the league of arab states and called once more on all members of the un security council to assume their responsibilities. the syrian crisis is, and will remain, very high on the eu agenda. eu foreign ministers will discuss it again on 27 february. the eu has throughout the conflict stood by the syrian people and the high representative continues to increase pressure on the syrian authorities through multiple levels. the urgent priority for now is to stop the regime’s repression and the escalating violence. in accordance with the arab league’s plan, it is also essential that the regime frees political detainees, removes troops, tanks and weapons from the cities and allows independent observers and the media to freely travel and report in syria. to this end, the eu is intensively engaged with the league of arab states and other players to find a peaceful solution. the high representative has stressed the key role of regional involvement and arab league leadership. on the diplomatic front, catherine ashton has been speaking to secretary-general el-arabi to discuss next steps and express our political support for the efforts that the arab league is undertaking to solve the syrian crisis. she has also spoken to the secretary-general of the un ban ki-moon, turkey’s foreign minister davutoğlu and several other leaders with the same objective. the eu welcomes the league of arab states’ efforts to increase international pressure on the syrian regime. leadership of the arab league is key. due to the escalation of violence against the syrian population, the league decided on 12 february to end its observation mission. it asked the un security council to issue a resolution to form a joint arab-un peacekeeping force to supervise the implementation of a ceasefire. the arab league has also decided to enforce the economic sanctions of previous resolutions of the arab league and agreed on a meeting of friends of syria to take place in tunisia on 24 february. we welcome this development. the tunis meeting will provide a timely opportunity to build an international consensus on syria and put forward urgent proposals to stop the killings and to seek a peaceful outcome to the current crisis. there is no doubt that the eu and the high representative will take an active part in this endeavour. the high representative has also offered eu expertise in the area of sanctions and has stressed the need to coordinate closely in the dialogue with opposition groups. the work on the un front must go on. we continue to seek the support of partners so that the security council can come back to this issue in due course and agree on a strong resolution on syria. the high representative is making the case rapidly with members of the security council and regional partners to achieve this goal. the eu message to russia and china is clear: they should not be on the wrong side of history. the international community has a responsibility to stop the regime’s killing machine. last monday, during a debate at the united nations general assembly on the situation in syria, a vast majority of un member states condemned the widespread violation of human rights by the regime. the un high commissioner for human rights in her assessment said that the assad regime had ‘manifestly failed’ to fulfil its obligation to protect its population and had engaged in crimes against humanity. the human rights council at its upcoming session should also take appropriate action on syria. the eu is ready to mobilise assistance to relieve the hardship of the syrian population. the commission is preparing a contingency plan in the area of humanitarian assistance. while bilateral cooperation with the syrian regime is entirely suspended, the commission and the external action service continue to support projects to the benefit of ngos, syrian civil society organisations and human rights defenders, as well as palestinian refuges. the situation in syria requires that the eu must maintain a presence through its member state missions and the eu delegation as the syrian opposition is asking us to do. not only to observe and report on the situation, but also to signal clearly that the regime cannot repress its population in total impunity and the syrian people will not be left alone. close coordination among the eu missions in damascus is taking place also with respect to contingency planning. similarly, actions are being undertaken with respect to the neighbouring countries. last but not least, the eu continues to engage with syrian opposition groups. it is essential to encourage them to strengthen their coordination and develop a common vision on the way forward in order to convince the syrian population of the value of their cause and to promote an orderly and peaceful transition in syria. the high representative has offered the eu’s support to the arab league in its efforts towards bringing together the syrian opposition groups and their common vision for the transition. i would also like to thank you, honourable members, for your support in the past months. the valued statements made in the european parliament and the resolutions adopted by this house have helped the eu to shape its policy towards syria. it is important that we maintain pressure on the syrian regime. the european parliament has a key role in ensuring that the syrian people are not left alone in their struggle. the high representative is committed to continuing to work with you on joint efforts to support the arab league and to stop the ongoing violence. syria will be at the core of her meeting in washington at the end of this week.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the syrian crisis is the result of three interdependent and evolving factors. firstly, a kind of cold war between saudi arabia and, at the moment, iran, which is manifesting itself in various scenarios and now, very specifically, in syria; a kind of clear domino effect with regard to the 'arab spring' and, lastly, a greater desire for the presence of china and russia and other actors in the middle east conflict to fill the vacuum left by the european union and the united states. we have followed with great interest the measures taken by the high representative: suspension of cooperation, humanitarian aid, contingency plan, strengthening of sanctions at the next council of ministers on 27 june and support for the arab league initiative. however, we have missed a more coordinated and effective diplomatic response from the member states of the european union. unfortunately, none of these decisions has served to reduce in the short term the intolerable violence of which the syrian people are victims, hence the frustration that we all share. the french foreign minister made this statement today in a hearing before the foreign affairs committee, because of the failure of the initiative and the russian and chinese vetoes in the united nations security council. the general assembly is currently discussing an initiative by qatar and saudi arabia aimed at ratifying this agreement, although we know that it has no binding effect. what can we do about this? of course, increase the pressure on russia and china. and there have been two very appropriate occasions: the visit of the chinese vice-premier to the united states, where he was received with all the honors, and, of course, the european union-china summit which has just taken place. it is also clear that we must strengthen our relations with the syrian opposition and we must see to what extent this humanitarian corridor, which the opposition has asked us to develop, can be implemented. it is also clear that the questions put the other day by the foreign ministers of the arab league also concern all of us. how long can we remain passive in the face of the violence that the syrian people are suffering right now? and what is our limit of tolerance when it happens term after term, initiative after initiative and, in the meantime, the regime continues to massacre the syrian people? i believe, madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, mr secretary-general of the european external action service, that this is the fundamental question we have to ask ourselves in this debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the council, mr commissioner, my group will be against, radically against, any foreign military intervention to resolve this crisis. we were also in the case of libya and we know how the dictator gaddafi ended up: a crime covered by a foreign military operation, which was also a crime. the drums of war, at this moment and in that area, cannot be answered with drums of war. i'm not sure. we will therefore be in radical disagreement with any military intervention, and the minister has given a report which is correct as to the need to stop president el assad's repression. we must stop this repression. but we find it surprising that there is no mention of the jihadist landing. that is, let alone the libyans, iraqis, saudis, lebanese, the call of ayman al zawahiri "the head of al-qaeda" helping and asking the lions of syria to respond, the iraqi interior minister recognizing that weapons pass through the border and the encouragement of saudi arabia. shouldn't these jihadists be stopped too?
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, just yesterday there was a summit between the european union and china. on 15 december a summit between the european union and russia was held. on 15 december the assad regime was already fully engaged in the orgy of bloody repression of its people, and yet there is no news that at either of those two summits - with the two countries which have prevented the un security council from adopting a resolution condemning the syrian regime - the european union raised the issue of the position of these two countries in the security council in relation to syria. and the european union has to demonstrate its international relevance through its ability to influence its partners. otherwise, we are doomed to irrelevance. russia and china must commit themselves to an international order which places the limit of sovereignty on human rights; international law cannot be understood as a guarantor of the impunity of states. we exclude military intervention, but we demand the creation of a humanitarian corridor, the referral of the case of repression in syria to the international criminal court, the end of the sale of arms and the creation of a blacklist and the recognition and political support of the opposition.
mr president, the fight for respect for human rights and against all forms of discrimination must be an objective of the european union at the next meeting in geneva. i therefore welcome the european union's step forward and participation in the specialised debate on the situation of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, as it will be the first debate on the report on lgbt people by the united nations high commissioner for human rights. the european union must be involved in this very serious issue and the crisis must not be used as an excuse to suppress fundamental rights and to hide the discrimination suffered by many of these people in europe and the world. it is also important to address religious freedom and to remember that the european union must maintain a proper balance in relation to any kind of belief, and not to forget the right to change one's religion or not to have one's religion, addressing the situation of some member states with special tax and concordate relations with certain religions.
mr president, the budget is a cycle over time and every budget draftsman in parliament and other institutions seeks a balance between the legitimate interests of members, the sensitivity of the electorate and the needs of the administration. speaking specifically of the european parliament's budget, i would like to begin by saying that the budget is working well and that in many of its chapters it is working very well. increasing powers, more and more member states, the difficult problem of multilingualism, the need to provide technical support for more than 700 members: there are many explanations for the institution's large budget. however, we often wonder whether, apart from being necessary, the budget of this house is sustainable in the medium term and in this economic crisis. we have just come from a meeting of the committee on budgets with the vice-presidents of this house and the secretary-general. i think that there has never been, in all my time dealing with budgetary matters, such a coincidence between the desire of the committee on budgets to save, even with negative real growth - as the rapporteur, mr vaughan, proposes - and the will of the administration to implement real savings measures without compromising security and the service to members. let us not forget that what we produce in this house is legislation and that this, the legislation, must be the ultimate objective: to make the legislation - the body of laws we produce - of quality and to be perceived as such by european citizens. the committee on budgets, like the european commission, is seeking growth of less than 2% in 2013. the bureau of this house is starting from a proposal for growth of about 3%. we are only separated by a percentage point at the beginning of the budgetary procedure, and i believe that we will find a common objective throughout this budgetary procedure. all my colleagues will remember that it is said that virtue is in the middle and that in the middle of these two proposals we shall find the perfect balance.
mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr vaughan, on his excellent work. it has presented guidelines for the budget of the european parliament which follow the line of work started by this house a few years ago and which have the support of a large majority. let me remind you that the budget of the european parliament represents just over 1% of the total budget of the european union, and although we are talking about a very small budget, this does not prevent us from continuing to take measures to reduce the expenditure of this house. we are at the beginning of the 2013 budget debate and the aim of this motion for a resolution is to give a series of budgetary guidelines on which we will be working in the coming months. our priorities for 2013 will be budgetary responsibility, reducing expenditure without impeding the smooth functioning of this institution. we therefore believe that all the european institutions must make the necessary efforts to freeze their budgets. in particular, we in the european parliament propose that all necessary measures be taken to reduce travel costs. as for the items for members, we ask that they be frozen until the end of the legislature. as a parliament we believe that we must and can achieve significant savings in the medium and long term, and to this end we are also proposing three lines of action: on the one hand, the possibility of carrying out an independent evaluation of our budget; on the other hand, the creation of a specific working group within parliament to study possible measures; and, finally, we have also asked the secretary-general to carry out a thorough analysis to detect possible duplications and underused budget lines. i hope that the measures already taken and the future reforms we are going to put in place will help us to achieve better financial management of this house.
mr president, commissioner, many blind and visually impaired people are listening to you today. the european disability strategy 2010-2020 aims to remove barriers in people's lives, but currently only 5% of books are accessible. these people are prevented from being educated, informed and reading like everyone else, and today we have no tools to eliminate their hunger for reading. so they were hoping to hear from you that you were going to work on a binding treaty so that they could access culture without being reminded every day that they are disabled. think of your hunger, commissioner, and work for that binding treaty, but don't forget one thing: we are all potentially disabled.
mr president, i wanted to speak because, frankly, i am stunned. thirty million people in europe are visually impaired or have reading difficulties, but only 5% of books are in a format they can read, and that in rich countries, in poor countries, is less than 1%. and what does the champion of fundamental rights do? what is the european union doing? he hides behind economic arguments. instead of defending a basic, fundamental principle, what he is doing is finding problems when he should be leading, on a global scale, this fight for an international treaty that would allow precisely those with difficulty to access reading: these people are hungry for reading. what surprises me is that it is the european parliament which has to urge the commission, which is here today - and would do so with the council, too, if it were here - to lead this debate in the international forums. but if it has to be done, it will be done, and we hope, of course, that this debate will serve to mobilize some of the attitudes which have hitherto been obstructive.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i agree entirely with the members who have said that the high standards which we give to our citizens – rightly so – must also be transferred when there is an exchange of data with third countries. we in the commission take this question very seriously, because the commission believes and supports the principle that, in international public law, a legal act which is enacted by a third country cannot be directly and automatically applied in the territory of the eu unless – exceptionally – union law or member state law explicitly recognises the facts of such an act in their respective jurisdiction. no legal acts of a third country as such can legally overrule the relevant eu legislation or member state legislation, and this includes data protection rules. any processing of personal data in the eu has to respect the applicable eu data protection law. if – and this was mrs in ‘t veld’s basic question – a us law enforcement authority requires information from companies operating in the european union, whatever the nationality of those companies, they have to use existing channels of cooperation and mutual legal assistance agreements. this issue also applies when personal data are transferred by an eu company to a company in the us and when the data are subsequently processed for law enforcement purposes. this sounds good – except that this issue is not explicitly addressed in the current eu legal framework. that is exactly the reason why (as the rapporteur knows perfectly well) we have the data protection regulation, which the commission put on the table on 25 january to try to provide additional legal clarity in these matters. the regulation makes it clear that transmissions can only take place when the conditions of the regulation for such transfers are met, notably when there is a justification on an important ground of public interest – and the public interest has to be recognised in union law or in member state law. this could involve, for instance, data transfer between competition authorities, tax and customs administrations, and it could also be for the prevention and investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences. as you rightly said, this issue has been raised in the umbrella agreement on the protection of personal data. as parliament has been informed, this negotiation is still continuing. for the moment we have not yet reached a conclusion with this negotiation. as parliament also underlined, this is an element which, for my colleague who is responsible for taxation, has to be seen in the framework of the fatca regulations. here i would like to make it very clear (this may be new information for parliament) that the commission has raised this issue with the united states regularly and intensively in the framework of the financial markets regulatory dialogue and, as a result of the discussion, on 6 february the us announced that the foreign account tax compliance act (fatca) should be complied with by the transfer of data between tax administrations rather than by the imposition of direct obligations on eu financial intermediaries. so that is good news, which now has to be put into a clear text. but this is the direction we want to go in, and the commission will continue to work with the us and with the member states in order to identify the best way to address this issue and achieve legal certainty and compliance with the eu charter of fundamental rights. when i speak here about the united states, this means that it also applies to other third countries. the relations between the eu and the united states are those which are most discussed, but in future we will certainly also have many discussions about other continents with which we have a specific relationship.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i understand that data protection legislation can be based on internal security strategies. but we must not forget that its extraterritorial impact may infringe the rights of european citizens. more than doubts have arisen in the medicare act, fisa, patriot act or fatca cases. in many of them we find the obligation imposed on european financial institutions, understood in its broadest sense, to provide information of all kinds such as the ownership and nature of their accounts or the withholding of payments, among others. there is no prior resolution to justify the collection of all this data, nor do users know where it is going or for how long it will be stored. it is therefore necessary to take measures and to design a body of rules and legislation to avoid the violation of the principle of territoriality. we must be able to maintain the union's external relations and the security of our territory intact, but all this in full respect for the rights of all european citizens. the european commission must do this with much greater commitment and interest.
the author. mr president, i regret that i was unable to be present from the first minute in this debate on the oral question which i had raised because of a problem of communication and coordination of parliamentary activities. but i have been able to attend most of the debate, which has enabled me to see that the question is relevant, that the question is timely. because we are indeed faced with the mandate established by the family reunification directive itself in 2003: that the commission periodically inform the european parliament about the state of application of the directive and the problems raised, including, in this mandate, the presentation of a green paper, which has been subject to debate. but since 2003, the coordinates for implementing the family reunification directive have changed dramatically, precisely because of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which affirms the area of freedom, security and justice and, consequently, transfers to the community pillar, to union law, the free movement of persons in a group of states which have disarmed their internal borders, but which also establishes a charter of fundamental rights of the european union, articles 7 to 9 of which enshrine the right to marriage, the right to found a family and the right to private and family life. and in this context, there is a debate in a number of member states about alleged abuses in the implementation of the family reunification directive; a debate which is, of course, particularly intense in some countries where the immigration rate is much lower and the problem is therefore less dramatic than in other countries where, on the other hand, the issue is not raised with the same intensity. it is therefore time to analyse in a rational, documented and certified manner, in detail and without prejudice or smoke-screen, what the real problems are with the implementation of the family reunification directive. are there really objective and factual assumptions which justify a debate on the amendment of the terms of this directive? is there really any abuse which would justify a more restrictive amendment of the directive? is there really a problem with the uniform application in all the member states of a maximum period for the granting of a uniform residence permit to the spouses, common-law partners or minor children of persons who already have a residence permit in the territory of the union and who therefore have the right to free movement? what are the problems that have actually been raised in connection with this directive? the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it.
member of the commission. - mr president, mr lópez aguilar has just said that this is a relevant question and it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, from the number, quality and liveliness of your speeches, which express quite different points of view, that this is indeed a useful and relevant question. i thank you, mr lópez aguilar, on behalf of my colleague, cecilia malmström, for asking this question, which gives the commission the opportunity to take stock of the state of this consultation. i would like to recall, in the words of véronique mathieu, mrs sargentini, mrs lambert and mrs flašíková beňová, that each of them and others have in fact pointed out the differences between the member states in the application of the current texts. it is precisely in order to understand, analyse and deal with the problem of this divergent application, which is different between the member states, that the commission has launched this consultation, which will end on 1 march, and in which all those who have something to say must take part. understand well, do as mr iacolino said, work with clarity; i think of what mr moraes said earlier, referring to his own personal testimony, since he himself came from a family grouping. i would also like to say, echoing what mrs guillaume or mr triantaphyllides, mr pirker and mrs zuber have said, which i have listened to, that for the commission it is clear that family reunification is indeed a tool for integration. the implementation of this policy naturally requires taking into account the capacity of the states. that is what mr busuttil said very wisely. mr busuttil also mentioned the particular situation in greece at the moment, the exceptionally difficult situation, and i would like to confirm that the commission, mr busuttil, will continue to support a number of projects to improve greece's reception capacity. mrs wikström, i would like to echo what you have said here too, and point out that it is in response to the calls of the immigration pact but also in the stockholm programme and also to the very long list of problems identified in your 2008 report that the commission has launched this consultation. we want, and i am calling on behalf of mrs malmström, for this matter to be studied, examined thoroughly, objectively, with reason. that is the word of mrs hohlmeier who has just called for reason, with open eyes, without prejudice. we hope that this consultation will allow for a reasoned and objective examination of all the elements. i would also say to several of you who have mentioned the case of a member state - mrs sargentini, mrs in 't veld, mr de jong, mr zijlstra or mrs bozkurt - that pre-admission measures, which may be taken in one country or another, are not in themselves contrary to the directive. the commission, however, considers them admissible only if they serve to facilitate integration and if they respect the principle of proportionality. in this context, ms guillaume and ms wikström asked whether the commission is involved in infringement proceedings. at this stage, the commission has not initiated infringement proceedings. the directive gives member states a wide margin of manoeuvre - i have just mentioned that they could use it - but in certain proportions - it has not identified any breaches of specific provisions of the directive. however, this is not precise enough. that is why we have launched this public consultation. the commission is constantly monitoring the implementation of this directive by the member states and is prepared - as i said - to use infringement procedures if necessary. mr claeys, if you see any abuses - you yourself have mentioned this - this consultation is precisely the way in which the member states can tell us the facts and statistics so that we can understand the problems or abuses and know whether, after this consultation, we should propose a change. i would like to conclude by reminding mrs mathieu and mr mulder that the commission has embarked on an open, unprejudiced and ideologically unbiased process and that, depending on the results of this consultation, we will decide what action to take. there are several possibilities, i recall, as i said in the first part of my speech, in particular interpretative guidelines, which can be an effective instrument if they are accompanied by groups of experts with a thorough dialogue with each member state. other arrangements or measures may be taken if necessary, but let us take the time to assess the results of this consultation, which ends on 1 march, and the commission will act, encouraged by your own debate and your own recommendations. once again, whatever follow-up measures the commission takes, we will ensure the correct implementation of the current eu rules on family reunification and - i repeat this for a second time - infringement proceedings are not excluded if necessary. in any case, i thank you very much and i thank your rapporteur, mr lópez aguilar, for raising this issue and i think, and i will say it again to mrs malmström, that the liveliness and the number of speeches show that this is a very topical issue.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the joint debate on - the recommendation of emilio menéndez del valle, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin (11343/2010 - c7-0207/2011 - 2010/0093 ((nle)) (a7-0026/2012), and - the oral question to the commission on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin, by emilio menéndez del valle and vital moreira, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000024/2012 - b7-0036/2012).
the european union must make it a priority to consolidate a single shore of peace, development, justice and freedom in the mediterranean. in the framework of the barcelona process, the association agreements with our mediterranean partners were the first step towards creating a euro-mediterranean free trade area. one of the main reasons why this target could not be reached in 2010 was the lack of social, economic and commercial integration between our neighbours to the south. the arab spring, as you know, represents the most momentous change since the fall of the berlin wall. in this context, the high representative and the commissioner for enlargement and european neighbourhood policy should be congratulated for giving priority to the convention, on which we are taking a decision today, as one of the commitments that make up the european response to this situation. this convention on pan-euro-mediterranean rules of origin is an important step towards the creation of the free trade area. its adoption will ratify a single, simplified instrument replacing the more than 100 existing bilateral protocols and extend its geographical scope to include the western balkans and efta, in addition to the mediterranean countries. the convention thus provides an incentive for south-south trade, which can contribute to economic growth and diversification, poverty reduction, democratisation and integration in the region. i hope that the commission will be able to answer in this debate the questions and concerns which parliament has almost unanimously put to us in the form of an oral question and a resolution. on the other hand, in addition to the absence of a dispute settlement mechanism, a review clause and an impact assessment, it is important to address the import and potential accumulation of origin of products originating, albeit redundantly, from illegal israeli settlements. i regret to add that although the current technical agreement between israel and the european union requires that israeli customs authorities and exporters examine whether or not products exported to the union originate in the colonies, the procedure does not provide for this distinction to be notified to european customs. this prevents our customs, which cannot check every consignment from israel in the absence of an extraordinary budget for this purpose, from being able to comply easily and effectively with international law and with their obligation to refuse the application of the preferential treatment of the eu-israel agreement to products originating in the territories occupied by israel. i therefore think that a commitment by the commission to a more appropriate, simple and effective approach to the determination of the real origin of products exported by israel which takes up the proposals in the resolution would be welcome and would ensure broad support for the convention, avoiding that this issue could hinder its adoption and the social and economic integration of the mediterranean region, which is so important, especially in the circumstances we are currently experiencing, for the european union as a whole.
member of the commission. - mr president, i thank each of you for your contribution to this debate and i would now like to give you some answers on behalf of my colleague, mr šemeta, and first of all to thank mrs saïfi and mrs gomes, mr susta and mr cutaş for having pointed out that we are convinced that this convention sends a strong message from the european union to all its partners. mr ferreira, this is not rhetoric as you said earlier. this goes far beyond rhetoric. despite the economic crisis we are facing, we are determined to bring our economies closer together through this controlled trade with our mediterranean and other partners. we, and all the pan-mediterranean partners, have a common interest in seeing democratic, stable, peaceful and prosperous societies in the southern mediterranean. mr leichtfried has just said very well how trade can be useful, since these countries need to work, they need to prosper, they need to develop, not just for themselves. it's not about self-sufficiency, it's about open economy, agricultural products, manufactured goods, tourism trade, which allows for economic progress. mr leichtfried also pointed out that this is how the european union was born almost 60 years ago, out of a desire among us europeans to live together, a desire to live together but not only, an interest, a need to be together through the economy, trade and exchanges. this is also what i was referring to earlier as the prospect of a common market between countries, particularly those of the arab maghreb, with which we could probably establish a partnership more easily from a common market to a single market. ladies and gentlemen, once this convention is adopted, i hope quickly - mr rinaldi has requested this - it should facilitate the revision of the pan-european preferential rules of origin. this review has been awaited for several years by all our partners in the area, so it is now a priority and must be completed to produce its effects. i would like to confirm to mrs ana gomes, mr rinaldi, mr murphy and mrs thein that, as far as products from the colonies are concerned - i said this very clearly in my first speech - they will be denied tariff preference precisely because of the technical arrangement and, mrs thein, the checks must be made on the basis of postal codes. this is a shared responsibility between importers and customs authorities. i also noted - and i am telling this to mrs tokia saïfi - her suggestion for an arabic translation. i understand that these are guides to third countries on rules of origin. i do not know whether it is for the european union to do this translation or for the countries concerned, but i think it is a good suggestion. mr. šemeta's services will examine it to see who can do this most efficiently. in any case, all these translations, not only between us but also with others and in their own language, are a way of facilitating cooperation and dialogue. mr leichtfried has just mentioned the problem of dispute settlement and its proper functioning. we need a procedure for settling disputes at home as well as in our relations with third countries. it is useful at the bilateral level first and foremost. in dealing with this issue of dispute settlement at bilateral level, we can rely on the rules set out in the appendix. if it is a question of settling disputes at the plurilateral level, it is therefore the convention itself, its title, that will have to be referred to. mr rinaldi spoke of simplifying the rules of origin. yes, we must move in that direction, and the convention is precisely the instrument which can make it possible to achieve this simplification. mr mölzer rightly pointed out the abuses that must be stopped. it seems to me that it is the responsibility of the member states to act to put an end to a number of abuses and our feeling, our analysis, mr mölzer, is that the member states are fulfilling that responsibility properly. that is what i was able to say, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in answer to the questions that were asked on the points that were raised. i would like to thank the author of this question and the rapporteur for their contribution and, echoing mr czarnecki's comments on the doubts, i hope that this debate and the explanations i have given on behalf of mr šemeta have helped to dispel a number of doubts and questions or reservations about the implementation of this convention which must now, with you and thanks to you, be implemented quickly.
the rapporteur. - mr president, thank you for your kindness in giving us the floor. i do not think i will need it, because the arguments are already sufficiently explicit and the issues are clearly on the table. first of all, i would like to conclude this debate by congratulating all the groups in this parliament on their excellent cooperation on this report and, in particular, on the great consensus we have achieved on this subject. commissioner, allow me to comment on the postal codes you mentioned. i think i can say that there are sources within the commission itself who doubt the reliability of the list of postcodes and in any case such a system of postcodes would not significantly reduce the burden on european customs. i think that's a detail that needs to be taken into account. but in the end i agree with you - how could i not agree with you - in your opening statement that the problem of poverty alleviation and economic and social growth lies largely in the integration of the south itself, in cooperation and collaboration between the south and the south. that would be the general framework of reference for this issue. finally, in view of the statement you have made that the commission does not intend to amend the current technical agreement between the european union and israel, i would like to say a couple of things: firstly, that at least the commission, since it does not intend to amend that technical agreement, is making every effort to ensure that compliance with that technical agreement is strict, that it conforms to the terms actually contained in the agreement in question; and secondly, that in any event the commission - and not only commissioner barnier - should take into account that the position which mr vital moreira and i have defended at this sitting and which we have been insisting on defending from the committee on international trade is the majority position of the european parliament. thank you very much for your effective and brilliant contribution to this debate, commissioner. i thank you very much, mr president, for your work in this house, for having made it clear - i now take advantage of the time you have given me - that members must indeed make an effort not to speak too quickly, because otherwise the effectiveness of this exchange of views will actually be diminished by the inability of the interpretation to do its duty.
the debate is closed by a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
in writing. − in favour. the formulation of common requirements applicable to deposit guarantee schemes will make it possible for member states to organise these schemes in as flexible a manner as possible while providing uniform protection, ensuring equal stability and avoiding distortions of competition. while maintaining the same coverage level and target level and abiding by the stipulated time limits for reimbursements and terms relating to the use of funds, member states will thus have the opportunity to adapt their deposit guarantee schemes to national features of financial markets. by means of this approach, effective protection of depositors will be achieved and the stability of the financial system ensured.
in writing. − in favour. i am especially happy that amendment number 2, stating that a single seat could lead to important savings in the ep budget, has been adopted by a big majority.
in writing. − in favour. the ep underlines that the plan’s objective is to maintain the biomass of western horse mackerel at a level that ensures its sustainable exploitation, and to provide the highest long-term yield; it believes that the harvest control rule should be based in equal parts on precautionary advice and on recent total allowable catches, adjusted by a factor that reflects the recent trend in the stock abundance as measured through egg production; it stresses that the harvest control rules are core elements of the multiannual plans that must be decided under the ordinary legislative procedure.
in writing. − in favour. fishing is an important ancient activity in human communities that has always provided them with high protein and healthy nourishment, representing today an economic and social added value also contributing to food security and independence for the european union. i take the view, therefore, that the reformed cfp needs to guarantee the maintenance of the fisheries, in its main activities – extracting, processing and marketing – in its traditional zones, and within the framework of a sustainable balance between environmental protection, social development and economic profitability.
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament has today taken a stand to uphold fundamental eu values and to combat the dismantling of basic democratic rights in an eu member state. in doing so, it is filling the void left by the other eu institutions, which are unwilling to act. the epp-dominated council has remained scandalously silent throughout, while the european commission has focused its criticism on narrow areas, ignoring the broader thrust of the democratic scale-back in hungary, which is completely at odds with the core values on which the eu is founded. against this background, it is the duty of the european parliament to take action to defend democracy in the eu.
in writing. − in favour. the ep notes the osce/odihr and pace reports on the duma elections, which state that the elections did not meet election standards as defined by the osce and were marked by the convergence of the state and the governing party, by procedural violations, apparent manipulation and a lack of independence of the election administration; is concerned that the outcome of the elections (the composition of the duma) will not bring improvements as regards the role and influence of the duma within russia’s political system; calls on its delegation to the eu-russia parliamentary cooperation committee to consistently raise the issue of democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law with the russian counterparts; and calls, furthermore, for an assessment of the activities of the eu-russia parliamentary cooperation committee, and the intensification of the dialogue with the non-parliamentary opposition and civil society.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution, as did the bové report, because the approval of this agreement will have devastating effects on small and mediumsized farms. it will also only benefit the large european food multinationals and the large moroccan landowners, including, and above all, the king of morocco, who remains the largest owner of fertile agricultural land. this agreement, like the pesca agreement, is made in defiance of international law, because it continues to include natural resources belonging to the saharawi people and therefore supports and perpetuates the plunder carried out by morocco in western sahara. and this agreement still fails to take account of something fundamental in the approach to trade: the democratic and social quality of the products, the conditions of exploitation suffered by moroccan farmers and the social dumping involved in liberalizing to make european agricultural products compete with moroccan products through price. morocco is still not required to comply with and guarantee minimum social, labour and plant health conditions.
in writing. - i voted against it. some of us have insisted, politically and legally, that the agreement should explicitly exclude the territories of western sahara. this is already being done in other agreements, for example with the united states. we have here the first fundamental problem which leads us to reject this treaty. but beyond that, we believe that this treaty must be renegotiated to adapt it to the needs of sustainable economic and social development. the treaty should also promote regional integration. this agreement should also include the challenges of the 'arab spring' and therefore also strengthen the democratic political space, and i do not think this is the case. this treaty also has little regard for the protection of the natural environment, the exploitation of resources, the proper allocation of farmers' wages and the creation of sustainable jobs. i also criticise the lack of reference to child labour, as the increase in agricultural exports could bring with it an increase in child labour, which is already present in the sector.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the approval of this agreement will have devastating effects on small and mediumsized farms. it will also only benefit the large european food multinationals and the large moroccan landowners, including, and above all, the king of morocco, who remains the largest owner of fertile agricultural land. this agreement, like the pesca agreement, is made in defiance of international law, because it continues to include natural resources belonging to the saharawi people and therefore supports and perpetuates the plunder carried out by morocco in western sahara. and this agreement still fails to take account of something fundamental in the approach to trade: the democratic and social quality of the products, the conditions of exploitation suffered by moroccan farmers and the social dumping involved in liberalizing to make european agricultural products compete with moroccan products through price. morocco is still not required to comply with and guarantee minimum social, labour and plant health conditions.
in writing. - on behalf of the spanish socialist delegation: the spanish socialist delegation voted against the eu-morocco trade agreement on reciprocal measures to liberalize trade in agricultural and fishery products because the commission has not given guarantees that the following five conditions will be met: - study of the impact of morocco's productive potential on the incomes of european farmers. - proposal for a reform of the entry price system regulation to ensure its strict application. - quantified proposal for compensation for the european producers concerned. - proposal for measures to ensure strict application and control of quotas. - full reciprocity of plant health, environmental, hygiene and safety standards. we regret that the amendment we tabled on compensation has been rejected. that explains why we voted against the joint resolution. we also regret that the position of the epp, alde and ecr groups did not allow for this mention to be included in the text of the joint resolution and that the epp group has tried to lower our demands for compensation for european farmers by putting forward an oral amendment.
in writing. against. i agree with my colleague mr bové when he says that the members of the european parliament who ratified this agreement today should have no illusions: this agreement is against the interests of the moroccan citizens and the people of western sahara. trade liberalization will ruin thousands of farmers in morocco as well as in spain, france and other southern eu countries while endangering morocco's water resources. by not explicitly excluding the territory of western sahara from this agreement, as the united states did in 2004 when it signed a similar agreement with morocco, the european union is making it even more difficult to resolve peacefully a conflict on europe's doorstep. this lack of clarity on the part of the eu is a very bad signal to the international community as a whole. i am glad, however, that for the first time the european union's trade policy has been discussed and strongly criticised in this house. we have thus helped to bring the fundamental question of the purpose of trade under serious consideration by the eu.
in writing. − in favour. the ep cannot remain silent. we should condemn in the strongest terms the escalation of the syrian regime’s violent and brutal attacks again its own people and in particular in the city of homs, the third-biggest syrian urban centre, that is suffering from continuous and heavy shelling since the beginning of february. time has come to urge the syrian regime to end immediately the killing of civilians, to withdraw the syrian troops from besieged cities and to release all detained protesters, political prisoners, human rights defenders, bloggers and journalists.
in writing. − i consider the unhrc to be a unique platform specialising in universal human rights and to be a forum specifically dedicated to human rights within the un system; i also consider it to have the important task of strengthening the promotion, protection and respect of human rights throughout the world. but i cannot share the criticism of russia and china for their veto at the united nations, since i understand that they have applied this veto precisely to avoid a war like the one in libya. i also disagree with the concept of the responsibility to protect, because under this argument military interventions like the one in libya can be justified. that is why i have decided to abstain.
in writing. − in favour. we welcome the increased mainstreaming of human rights in the work of the un, as evidenced by, for example, the considerable increase in appearances before the security council of the office of the high commissioner for human rights – including by its very ably led representation at assistant secretary-general level in new york – or by the organisation of a yearly panel discussion by the unhrc to interact with the heads of governing bodies and secretariats of the un agencies and funds, as mandated by the outcome of the review process. we also strongly encourage the unsc member states to request on a more regular basis briefings by the hrc, with a view to effectively addressing human rights violations that are at the root of numerous conflicts addressed by the unsc.
in writing. - i voted yes. thirty million people in the european union are blind or have visual or reading difficulties, but only 5% of books are in a format they can read (this is in rich countries, as in poor countries this percentage is 1%). the european parliament has spoken out clearly today in the context of the oral question in which we ask the european commission and the council of the eu to stop obstructing the adoption of a binding international treaty in favour of access to books for blind people or people with visual and reading difficulties.
in writing. − in favour. the ep believes that international trade can be a vehicle for economic growth, economic diversification and the reduction of poverty, all of which are necessary components of the democratisation of the mediterranean region. it supports the commission’s endeavours to give preferential access to the eu internal market to goods produced and cumulated in the mediterranean region and hopes that the new democracies that will emerge in the region following the arab spring will promote human and social rights and deepen the political dialogue, which should create an environment more friendly to intra-regional trade, as one reason for the lack of trade was the policies implemented by the previous dictatorial leaderships. it encourages these new democracies to work closely together in the agadir group and to make full use of the convention. finally, it asks the commission to provide these new democracies with technical assistance to enable them to make full use of the commercial instruments available to them, including the convention.
in writing. − in favour. the ep regrets the fact that on 30 november 2011 the commission published only a communication and did not come forward with a legislative proposal on gmes, given that the current regulation (eu) no 911/2010 covers only initial operations and will expire by the end of 2013; it also disagrees with the direction that the commission indicated in its communication as regards the future financing and government of gmes, the aim being intergovernmental funding of the project; and it is concerned that this direction will be hugely detrimental to the future development of the programme, causing it to lose its european dimension, contradict the principles of transparency and full, open and equal access for all, and be seen as a sign of disengagement by the eu from this flagship initiative.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, like others before me, i also strongly condemn the ongoing crackdown on international and national human rights and pro-democracy organisations in egypt. let us be clear: this is a way to silence voices that are critical of the ongoing human rights violations. these attacks constitute a severe violation of the right of freedom of association, as set out in article 22 of the international covenant on civil and political rights. the army and the egyptian government should immediately put an end to all forms of harassment or intimidation to which civil society organisations are subjected – whether directly or indirectly – and in particular should drop all criminal charges and stop the current media campaign against ngos. this is why we have to urge the high representative to be vocal on the necessity for the egyptian authorities to adopt a new association law based on international human rights standards and in close consultation with ngos and human rights and pro-democracy groups. we must also call for an independent, transparent and thorough investigation into the events of the port said stadium clashes which took place on 1 february 2012, as well as into the reports of sexual assault of female protestors, including the so-called virginity tests and death threats against female protestors.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the deterioration of the political situation in belarus, the problem of political prisoners and the crisis with the european union ambassadors, which was discussed by the council of foreign ministers last saturday, require that this parliament hold a debate on this issue, and that is why, mr president, we are asking for a statement from the high representative - if she cannot be present, the presidency in office - and, of course, the commissioner responsible for neighbourhood policy, and for a debate to take place. we therefore ask that this matter, mr president, be placed on the agenda on the basis of this statement, together with a debate and a resolution.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i would like to congratulate mrs pietikäinen on the successful completion of a text. let us hope that it will continue to be so tomorrow, because if its main contents are adopted, europe will lead the fight for equality in decision-making processes in the political sphere. seven years ago, i was elected president of the basque parliament. i received a call from the european parliament at the time: they wanted to know how we had managed to get a house which was 70% male and 30% female to have 53% female members. the origin of the change was the basque law for the equality of women and men approved in 2005. i am glad that many of its contents have been reflected in this report. the basque law obliges political parties to draw up candidates in a closed way, with women and men in a balanced proportion in the posts where there is a possibility of being elected. it also projects this application of equality towards the executive, as is done here with the european commission, the advisory bodies that deal with it, its external service and the negotiating teams in conflict zones. men and women, from the regional to the european level, have much to contribute and much to gain if we are accomplices in this endeavour. inequality between men and women is undemocratic and inefficient and unjust. it prevents 50 percent of humanity's knowledge and potential from participating on an equal footing with the other 50 percent in the economy, society and politics. it also disturbs the world of emotions and affections. gender-based violence is the most dramatic consequence for women. instead, many men carry stereotypes that limit and threaten them. that is the reality that must be changed, and debates and reports such as those we are about to vote on in this house contribute to that. commissioner, do not be afraid of the states: dare to promote equality in politics too, just as you are prepared to do with the boards of directors of companies, because men and women are different, but we do not have to remain unequal.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, i too applaud, welcome and support the reports by in 't veld and pietikäinen. the reduction of the wage gap is a necessary and fundamental fact, but in order to make this possible, in order to achieve this equality, it is not enough for women to occupy the space that is theirs in the public, political and economic spheres. men too have to take their share of responsibility - our share - in the private sphere. the two sides of the same coin, and that means that we must have measures which obviously provide incentives in both directions. on the other controversial issue, the quota issue, i am in favour. call it parity, call it a list of the top ten, call it what you will, but we must encourage equal opportunities and parity, equal presence in economic and political decision-making bodies, and since this cannot be done by natural means, we must do it by means of incentives. this is what we are doing, what we are promoting and what i hope the majority of the house will support tomorrow. i think it is also necessary to remember that when we talk about discrimination, we must not only talk about men and women, but also about many options of sexual identity that are not sufficiently recognized. this is something which the report in 't veld also raises in a very serious and very reasonable way, and i think it must be defended. and finally, i think it is also good to remember that in this economic and financial crisis we are in, we need to come up with proposals that are not only green, but also have a gender vision that not only does not discriminate but helps women to occupy that social and workplace space that they do not have until now.
madam president, congratulations to the authors on their reports. almost a century after the first international women's day, effective gender equality remains a mirage for most women on the planet. we as women parliamentarians have a gender obligation to contribute to this valuable work to make voluntary measures mandatory. as long as there are women who are victims of gender-based violence, which is the most serious and urgent problem, this is where the european parliament must make the greatest efforts. as long as there is discrimination in employment and unequal opportunities, we will be responsible, either actively or passively. as long as there is a pay gap between men and women, we will be failing in our policy initiatives. until women's sexual and reproductive rights are guaranteed, such as the right to abortion, there will be no effective equality. recent statements by the spanish minister of justice show a backsliding in this area in some member states. the battle for equality, social justice and dignity will never be won as long as half of humanity continues to be discriminated against against the other half.
madam president, from the european parliament i would like to pay tribute to all women today because, although we have come a long way since that march 1911 - when women took to the streets to demand the vote and better working conditions - i believe that women's equality is still a long way off. today women can work without having to ask anyone's permission, but in many cases they are still paid less than men for similar work, which is unacceptable. we must also remember the women in the rural world, whose work is ignored. i think that another uncomfortable reality, but one that must continue to be denounced, is violence against women. this year alone there has been an excessive number of women killed, not to mention the serious threats from those who believe they have the right to use physical or psychological violence against them. it's time to say enough and say it loud and clear. i would like to reiterate my commitment to the european order for the protection of victims and to the directive on the rights of victims which the commission has presented and which will be voted on, god willing, next june. we also have to say, and i would like to remind you, that motherhood is still an obstacle to women's progress and i think that this is a trend that should be changed. i want to send a message of hope: many women, with the help of more and more men, must make progress on the path of equal opportunities, rights and also duties. we've come a long way, but there's still a lot to do. i must admit that i am not an absolute or outright believer in quotas, but i must say that something must be done and i agree with many of your colleagues and, of course, with mrs reding, to open this debate and to move forward on this path so that women can regain the place they deserve, and for that you can count on my help.
the author. - mr president, as mr zwiefka has just explained, on behalf of mr klaus-heiner lehne, who is the co-author of this question, the purpose is to give rise to a debate and a motion for a resolution which stresses the importance of judicial training, the training of jurists, in particular judges and prosecutors, who are the first to apply european law. and the european union is a legal construct. this is precisely what explains its success story, in particular the launching of an area of justice and home affairs since the treaty on european union and, with the treaties of amsterdam, nice and, of course, lisbon, of an area of freedom, justice and security which has seen developments, i would even say formidable developments in the last ten years, in the mutual recognition of judicial decisions which require a european area of justice in which judges and prosecutors can perform to the maximum, to the best of their potential. and for that, it is essential that they have adequate training in the different legal cultures, traditions and systems of the member states, and, if possible, in the use of the various community languages. that is why we must give importance to judicial training, but also to the use, within the european judicial training network, of centres providing judicial training, of institutions which are accredited in their collaboration with the european institutions and, in particular, with the commission, precisely to develop those judicial training programmes in which the european parliament is showing interest. and that is why the question arises, first of all, what does the commission intend to do, how does it intend to achieve the objective that by 2020 at least half of the judicial and prosecutorial staff have received some form of training course and european legal culture. secondly, how can we strengthen our cooperation with the centres providing judicial training, with the institutions which are involved in judicial training. and thirdly, how does the commission intend to take advantage of this availability of the european parliament to adopt a proactive position in relation to the promotion of the justice programme, which is part of the development of the stockholm programme and, in particular, of the pilot project specifically aimed at the training of judges and magistrates, without forgetting the important role played in this respect by the court of justice, which is a great catalyst of european legal culture, in cooperation with the european court of human rights.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i shall not be long at this late hour. so let me just thank you for your input on this very important matter. this is an essential issue because if we are to create this europe of justice with an area of trust, trust first requires knowledge. it is therefore essential to create the necessary conditions together with the profession, together with national officials, so that knowledge becomes a reality for as many lawyers as possible at all levels of responsibility. i would like to add another element: trust also means meeting people. it is very important that lawyers in one country get to know judges, prosecutors, lawyers in another country so that, if they have any questions, they know which professional, which colleague to turn to. the programmes we are going to set up will obviously be programmes on content but they will also be programmes on knowing the other.
mr president, in this first plenary session after international women's day, i would also like to stress that the inclusion, for the first time, in the proposal for the framework programme for research and innovation of a specific article on gender equality is an achievement for which we must congratulate ourselves. it gives us the strength to push through the horizon 2020 programme a whole series of measures to put an end to the fact that, with 45% of doctorates awarded, women make up only 30% of our research staff and occupy only 18% of university chairs. it is not just a question of justice: in our own interests as europeans we need all our human capital. furthermore, it is proven that parity in a team contributes to quality and stimulates innovation and productivity. gender-sensitive research leads to greater efficiency, greater impact, a more innovative, inclusive and safe society, and socially responsible science. in short, the full participation of women in science and technology will go a long way towards achieving the main objective of horizon 2020: to improve the excellence and efficiency of our research and innovation.
mr president, the galician shipping industry is in a desperate situation, waiting for the european commission to come up with an alternative to tax breaks for shipbuilding after the suspension of the system known as tax lease. the galician shipyards are productive, accounting for 5% of gross value added and creating some 10 000 jobs. as a result, galician shipbuilding companies have not signed any new contracts for the manufacture of boats for nine months, with the loss of 3 500 jobs in the auxiliary companies and the threat to 1 000 direct jobs. the shipbuilding industry in galicia is literally at the limit, and prolonging this waiting any longer will have catastrophic consequences for the economy and employment in our country. i therefore ask the european parliament to urge the european commission here to respond immediately and urgently to the sector with a new proposal for a fair and satisfactory tax lease.
mr president, yesterday was the eighth anniversary of the worst terrorist attack in the history of europe. it was in madrid, it took about 200 dead and 1 800 injured, and it left thousands of families shattered and a town in shock. eight years later, that event is still remembered as the first day, despite the fact that the culprits have been investigated and imprisoned or have died, and this after an exemplary trial, which has not happened, however, in the united states with 9/11, or in london with the macro-attack that took place there. but if i have asked for the word it is, above all, to symbolize in one person the dignity, the integrity, the will to overcome the victims, and this person is pilar manjón. this woman lost a twenty-year-old son and she is still with dignity the leader of the association of victims of terrorism, which deserves to be mentioned here and for which she should be honoured by the european parliament.
mr president, i would like to alert this parliament and the european commission to the harmful effects that the doctrine of budget cuts is having on public health in some member states and, in particular, in spain, where health is the responsibility of the autonomous communities. the scandalous delays in payments to providers and the problems in the field of health research and the salaries of professionals must now be added to the cut in endocrine-metabolic tests for in vitro diagnostics, that is, the heel test that is done to children in the first five days after their birth and that allows the detection of rare diseases that would otherwise make their lives impossible, making it a real hell. cutting health care to meet our creditors is simply inhumane. and the european union should consider giving some instructions or some recommendations, without prejudice to the powers of the states, so that minimum levels of assistance are guaranteed and we do not fall back as europeans in health rights. it would be enough to put the effort that has been put into saving the banks and paying our creditors without disobeying their orders so that this could be fulfilled and some would not have to die so that others could collect the debt.
mr president, just a minute to draw attention to equatorial guinea. this country, which has been a dictatorship since 1979, has been persecuting the leaders of the only democratic party, the convergence for social democracy (cpds), for more than twenty years. on 9 march, a month passed since the arrest of dr wenceslao mansogo, who was imprisoned for a crime that has not been conclusively proven. the latest news about this african country has set off all the possible alarms. the international community, and in this case unesco, cannot accept three million dollars from the dictator for a prize that bears his name or is disguised behind any other. this trap, contrary to the opinion of the international organization's legal experts, is intended to wash the dictator's image. this country, growing at 14%, has the highest infant mortality rate: 20% of children die before they are five years old. ladies and gentlemen, as we have learned, dictators are no guarantee of stability. we demand the release of the secretary of international relations of the cpds wenceslao mansogo!
mr president, congratulations to you. the conclusions of the european council meeting are 12 pages long, a little over 300 lines, and not a single line on the damage, perhaps irreparable, being done to the european political project. europe is a project of a competitive economy, of citizenship and of a social model. the competitive economy does not advance without growth policies. citizenship is being pushed back with proposals such as those made by mr sarkozy on schengen, and the social model suffers when trade unions are attacked, when social dialogue is weakened, and this is the case in many countries, including spain. the people who are destroying the european political project today are the leaders who abandon their europeanism when faced with difficult choices, difficult choices for themselves, not for their countries. the european model is now being attacked by those who confront europe with their fearful national public opinion. that is not leadership, it is opportunism, it is populism, and i think it is time that the debate also took place in the european council on these matters.
president of the commission. mr president, let us give concrete answers to the questions asked. first, a question on the letter from the twelve governments. i said at the european council meeting that i could subscribe to practically every word of that letter. these were all very important elements for growth, including the deepening of the internal market and structural reforms. but i also reminded the member states of two aspects which i thought were important. first, there is no reference in this letter to the social dimension and the need to fight poverty. i believe that we need to combine some structural reform measures with proactive measures in social terms. secondly, i expressed my surprise at the european council that there was not a single reference to the europe 2020 strategy. this means that a strategy which has been unanimously approved by the european council is not even mentioned by the heads of state or government. (applause) this is an appeal to this house, because we have a strategy now and we must apply it with determination to all these elements. this is what i was referring to when i said ownership of strategy at all levels. but i also attached an annex to my reply to the twelve heads of state or government, recalling all that is already being done at the level of the european institutions, that is to say not only by the european council, but also by the commission and the council. we see that some of the questions are blocked precisely by the governments which signed the letter. one example is the community patent. the possibility of a community patent has been discussed for thirty years. and yet we now have governments calling for more growth, but still blocking the community patent. (applause) i would like to thank that's why we have to agree. what do we talk about when we talk about europe? when we say that europe is having difficulties at the moment - which is true - we have to see who is doing their best to push european projects forward and who is sometimes blocking decisions at european level. i believe that this is a prerequisite for having a debate which is not only politically honest but also intellectually honest. the question of greece is one that requires this honesty. greece is in this situation, not because of the euro, because the truth is that there are other countries outside the euro area that have also needed the assistance programmes. there are other countries even outside the european union - the first one that comes to mind is iceland - that have had problems very close to a general crisis of the member states. the problem we are facing today is mainly the result of two causes: first, the unsustainable nature of the public debt of many of our countries and, secondly, and not necessarily in that order, the irresponsibility of financial behaviour in many areas, including outside europe. so we now have a response which is probably more difficult to articulate because of the euro, since we are a monetary union which has not yet completed the instruments of economic union and we are responding to this challenge as a matter of urgency. but it is intellectually and politically incorrect to say that the present crisis is the consequence of the euro. on the contrary, the euro can be the solution to the current crisis. (applause) i would like to thank that is why, frankly, i cannot accept that some people come here and say that they really share the suffering of greece, that they regret all the difficulties it is experiencing. but their government has not spent a single euro, a single pound to help greece. (applause) i would like to thank this is not the kind of solidarity we need. and what do they propose as a solution for greece? the default! default would be the answer. i would like to know why the default of a member state of the european union could be the solution. what could be the confidence in this country in terms of investment? how could the shutdown of the whole country, the paralysis of its public services, the inability to pay public servants, the closure of hospitals, schools, be a solution for this country? let's be honest, let's not get carried away. to present the solution for greece as the default of that country is really a political and intellectual dishonesty, such as i have rarely seen in my life. (applause) i would like to thank but there are also those who say that this programme for greece will not work, that it is an invention of the troika. frankly, let's be clear about that, too. the programme for greece is the programme unanimously approved by the euro area member states, and the so-called troika, namely the commission, the ecb and the imf, acted within the mandate given to it, in particular in relation to the aid that was available. that's the question. so now, all those who want to help greece - greece that has approved this program, not only the government, but also the parliament, with the two main parties - instead of starting to say that this will never work, i really believe that they would do better to help us help greece. it is true that it is extremely difficult, it is true that there are enormous costs, it is true that we must see how we can help to bear some of the social costs which are immense in the short term. but the truth is that there is no serious solution other than to promote structural reforms so that greece can regain the competitiveness it so badly needs. another question is the question of fairness and standards which has now been raised by my friend saryusz-wolski. we must have a clear answer. the commission will do everything in its power to ensure that all the treaties are applied in an absolutely fair and non-discriminatory manner. and the example you gave of hungary and spain, frankly, doesn't hold up, because there's a key difference: hungary is expected to meet its deficit reduction target in 2011; spain is due to do so in 2013. we have proposed certain measures to hungary. but not only in hungary. there were five countries to which we made proposals: poland, cyprus, malta, belgium and hungary. all of them have agreed, except hungary. it was not really a special treatment for hungary, it was hungary that did not want to follow the proposals made by the commission, unlike poland, cyprus, malta and belgium, that is to say countries that are in the euro zone and countries that are not. i say this very frankly because it would be a mistake now to create artificial divisions between the euro-zone countries and the non-euro-zone countries. the commission has always supported the integrity of the european union and we are not going to have two standards depending on the position of each of our countries. finally, i saw that, apart from the very interesting and very useful elements of the debate, there were still some elements of consensus, at least among the most important political forces. firstly, we must do more to combat youth unemployment, along the lines of the action teams we have set up. we must fight against tax evasion. i would remind members of this house that the commission is not just making statements, the commission has already made proposals. our initiative is called the savings directive and we have also presented a mandate for negotiations with third countries. this proposal has been before the council for months and months, but it is blocked by two member states. but you know that unanimity is required. so if you want to criticise someone, do not criticise the commission, but help us to remove this blockage from two of our member states. as regards greece, i can tell you that this was one of the subjects of my conversation with prime minister papademos and six other members of my committee. i have asked them to ensure that - even before an overall agreement between the european union and switzerland and other countries - greece concludes a bilateral agreement with switzerland, while respecting community law. i have not only mentioned this to the greek prime minister but i had already mentioned it to the previous president of the swiss confederation last time. another aspect of the consensus i have seen here is the need to complete the single market, the internal market - and i have already announced that by the autumn the commission will come with the single market act, you can count on us - and the need to supplement our action also with investments. that is why we have put it on the table of the european council. there has been a good reception, but now we really have to find the legislative text, the project bonds, the project bonds, to make some investment already anticipating what we hope to have next in the financial perspective, and because we agree on this. the question is whether we have the resources for this investment. the truth is that in most of our member states we do not have the budgetary space for a lot of public investment. that is why we need - and i think the major political families agree - to work together to secure some resources for european investment, either through earnings bonds, project bonds or future financial perspectives. i hope that this parliament will work with the commission to achieve a result that is commensurate with our ambitions. we must also use all the levers of growth, such as innovation, research and our european instruments, but this will require a lot of work and determination. i really think that for growth in europe, we don't need more growth in advertising. it is not with more announcements but with seriousness in implementation, execution and determination that we will be able to fulfil the obligations and promises made by 'us', by all the institutions and also by each of our member states.
council of europe. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank all those who have congratulated me on my re-election. i noticed that the enthusiasm was not the same in all the benches but i would say it's an old saying "to enthusiasm, no one is bound". there has been a lot of criticism of the general approach, but our general strategy, the one we have followed, both at the level of the union and at the level of the member states, is a strategy that has been supported by all the member states, by all the prime ministers and heads of state since the beginning of the crisis two and a half years ago, including in a different composition since among those who elected me two and a half years ago, there are still twelve. the current composition of the european council supports this strategy. at the last council, all 27 member states signed the tax compact. we can criticise the general approach, but i simply say that for the past two and a half years this strategy has been the unanimous strategy of the european council. of course, everyone is aware that this is a difficult, unpopular path, that it produces results only in the medium and, in some cases, even the long term. but this is the path we have chosen and we will remain consistent with it. in my introduction, i said in a very cautious way: our strategy is going to work. we have reached a turning point. normally, i am very careful, i was very careful in this case as well. and that was translated into saying that i would have declared that this was the end of the crisis, and so on. no, not at all. don't be afraid, i said this was the turning point of a very serious crisis. in the press, which is totally opposed to the european project and the euro project, there is no longer any talk of the end of the euro zone. it's pretty significant, but we don't talk about it anymore. are all the problems solved? no, of course not. but when i see that the interbank market is picking up after months of stagnation, that there is a significant drop in interest rates in a number of countries that were under pressure, we can say, indeed, that we have reached the bottom of the wave. but there is still a long way to go. the surest way to have positive economic growth like we had in 2010 and 2011, and which we lack in 2012, is of course to restore confidence in the future of the euro area. that's the very first condition for growth. what is missing in a number of countries now is that consumer and investor confidence in the future of the euro area. with the first signs of a return to growth in the euro, consumers and investors can follow. we are told that structural reforms are needed. i thought that there would be reference to structural reforms in the member states. no, we're talking about firewalls, we're talking about other initiatives in the financial sphere. but we forget that outside the firewalls - i think we will be taking decisions in the coming weeks - what is sustainable - of course, too little has been said about it - is structural reforms in the labour market and in the product market. restoring the competitiveness of both the member states and the union in general is what we need. if not, this crisis will come again. what really surprised me here was that the term 'european semester' was not mentioned even once. some have hinted at it, but hardly. the european council's aim was precisely to assess the european semester, to see where we are in terms of budget, macroeconomic and employment. member states are asked to present their reform plan and stability plan in the coming weeks. in may the commission will make recommendations. we shall discuss this again at the june council. if we do not take the european semester seriously, the crisis will one day return. i am disappointed that i have not heard much about this vital project which was approved by the european parliament and which was adopted with great enthusiasm over time. the long-term policy must be maintained - and this is the great challenge in a period of inevitable fiscal consolidation in virtually all countries. the president of the commission rightly referred to the europe 2020 strategy, and the whole point of fiscal consolidation is to set priorities, to consolidate and generally to reduce deficits and debt levels while safeguarding the future, by preserving a certain type of expenditure on research and development, education, training of young people, investments, particularly climate investments. the main challenge is to establish priorities in the midst of budgetary consolidation. of course, outside of that, there's fairness. that's why we've asked the banks for a huge contribution. they lose 70% of the present value of greek debt as contributions to the recovery of the greek situation. i agree with all those who have called for even stronger measures against tax fraud and evasion. the commission has just reiterated the measures it has taken. there is, of course, this rule of unanimity when it comes to taxation but there is a lot that can be done at national level. we do not always need the european framework. if there is a problem in greece, it is the problem of tax collection. this is the greatest injustice and the very source of the gigantic public deficit that it has. solidarity must of course be maintained in the midst of the policy of fiscal consolidation. that is why, at the level of the european union, we have provided aid to greece which is equivalent to 100% of greek gdp. if we want to have even stronger proof of the european union's solidarity with countries in difficulty, this figure is quite telling. we must keep the focus on climate objectives in the midst of fiscal consolidation. two are in the track. we still have to work on another one on energy efficiency. we again call on the member states to pursue a specific employment policy, in addition to fiscal consolidation. that is why we are looking forward to their employment plans for the month of april. we will assess them and this will be incorporated in the recommendations we will make to the member states in june. we need a specific policy for greece, we're working on it. the greek prime minister is fully committed to this. the deepening of the single market costs nothing in budgetary terms. there's the letter from the twelve. i do not agree with those who say that the letter of the twelve has not been taken into account. quite the opposite. in fact, after careful reading of the last draft conclusion, including on the single market, which i submitted to the european council, there was hardly any discussion, so much as the consensus elements of the letter from the twelve had already been taken into account. is there still room for further stimulus? i heard some words spoken. but the days of creating a policy of stimulus through public spending as in the past are over. it takes a much finer and much more sophisticated approach. we cannot avoid the policy of fiscal consolidation, but within this policy we must - as i said - keep a certain number of expenditure which is conducive to growth and employment under control. one last word on syria in bosnia. we can go much further with syria, on one condition: that we get a mandate from the united nations security council. it is not europe, it is not the european countries that are in the way, it is the two countries that are also named in the decisions of the european council that are a further step in the actions that we can take in relation to syria. it's not ours. we must also be aware that the united nations has a mandate to protect the people who are receiving humanitarian aid. we had a mandate for libya, we have used it fully - in other circumstances and for other purposes - but we have no mandate for syria. as far as bosnia is concerned, i had a very interesting interview with the new prime minister of bosnia and herzegovina. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the european institutions and the european union are prepared to play their part as soon as possible, so that the european perspective can be maintained. it is for the first time that we will see the real european presence in that country which played such a tragic role in the civil war on the borders of the european union. here are some comments after the debate. i thank all those who have spoken.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is my third speech in the house on this subject this year and i am sorry to continue with the same cantinela, but as my compatriot miguel de unamuno used to say, 'the way to hit the nail once is to hit the shoe a hundred times'. i would like to insist on the call for the active implementation of the measures agreed at the last council. as the president of the european commission has said, we need to complete the job. we need growth, ladies and gentlemen, because austerity will create stability and confidence, but we also need to get out of the crisis and create jobs and welfare again. we must commit ourselves to implementing urgently the measures to stimulate growth agreed at the last council. these measures must be accompanied by reforms. spain is clearly committed to this reformist spirit; in less than a hundred days we have passed three key reforms: budgetary stability, financial reform and labour reform. and this reformist spirit does not end there. as mariano rajoy says, the spanish government not only announces reforms, but actually does them, which is not the same thing. let's follow his example. let's not announce growth plans, let's implement them. in addition, a certain adaptability to circumstances is required since we live in a world of constant change and evolution. as the spanish government president, mariano rajoy, recently said to meps and as the minister for the economy, luis de guindos, confirmed today, spain is complying, spain is complying and spain will comply. spain is more committed to europe than ever. it is demonstrating this from the outset, showing its cards and reaffirming its desire to fulfil the agreement.
mr president, on several occasions i have intervened in the debate on the conclusions of the european council to refer to aspects which have nothing to do with the governance of the euro area or the fight against financial instability, but with the real foundations and raison d'être of the european union, which is a community of law. i say this again in connection with the conclusions on the area of freedom, security and justice, the free movement of persons and the enlargement of the schengen area. because this parliament did indeed approve in june the extension of the schengen area to romania and bulgaria, which, according to their 2005 accession treaties, had to meet certain requirements. the council considered that romania and bulgaria fulfil these requirements but, once again, postponed its decision and referred it to a decision of the jha council at a meeting to be held in september 2012. parliament can only hope that this meeting will actually lead to the fulfilment of a commitment to romania and bulgaria, which have met their criteria for accession to the schengen area, and that the union will work towards strengthening the schengen area. the statements we have heard in the french campaign, which threaten to re-establish internal borders in the union and which contribute to mistrust and negative feelings among europeans, do not contribute in this direction, the opposite of the path we must take.
mr. president, i'm sorry, but there are things i don't understand. i do not understand this double game played by the council and the commission in relation to this fund. some block its continuity in relation to the crisis, but at the same time, the same countries that block it are the ones that continue to use it the most. and others, namely the commission, which seems to be defending it before the council, at the same time submitting a proposal which completely distorts its raison d'être. we all know there are two ways to delete a program. the first is to eliminate its funding altogether, and the second, more subtle, is to gradually de-naturalise it until it loses its raison d'être. and that is the risk we are taking at this very moment in the debate. is it necessary to compensate our farmers for the trade agreements we have with third countries? i'm not sure. but to do so through this fund without increasing the amounts, without clarifying the requirements, is an attempt to deceive everyone, the companies, the workers and the farmers. because, ladies and gentlemen, 500 million euros to help companies in difficulty may not be enough, but the same money for the same companies and for hundreds of thousands of farmers is simply ridiculous. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his excellent report.
madam president, the bologna process has two fundamental objectives which we support unreservedly. it allows for compatibility between higher education systems in europe and removes barriers to mobility to study and work in any other european country. we appreciate that the report reinforces the social aspect of bologna to ensure that no student is excluded from higher education and university exchanges for economic reasons. i myself did erasmus in germany and i know what it means to work to pay for studies. the key to the success of the bologna process lies in the financing of universities, which must have more financial resources, sufficient and stable to ensure a higher education of excellence. the report itself acknowledges that some governments do not provide universities with sufficient financial support. in my country, for example, cuts in education are causing economic suffocation in galician universities, with fewer and fewer resources and fewer opportunities for innovation and research. public universities should not be constantly questioned and treated as sloppy and inefficient entities. we need to send a clear message to governments to make a strong commitment to public universities.
in writing. − in december 2002, the council authorised the council presidency, assisted by the european commission, to start negotiating a mutual legal assistance agreement with norway and iceland. on 17 december 2003, the council adopted the decision concerning the signing of the agreement between the european union and the republic of iceland and the kingdom of norway on the application of certain provisions of the convention of 29 may 2000 on mutual assistance in criminal matters between member states of the european union and the 2001 protocol thereto. the agreement was based on articles 24 and 38 of the treaty on the european union. internal national procedures for this agreement had not been formally concluded at the time of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. as a consequence, according to the new legal framework provided for by the lisbon treaty and notably by article 218 tfeu, the consent of the european parliament is now required. in view of this, with the proposal for a council decision of 17th december.2009, the european commission has recommended to the council to obtain the consent of the european parliament and adopt a decision concluding the agreement without further delay.
in writing. − our group is in favour of the report as adopted in the committee on legal affairs. it calls though for a second reading in order to give the uk the possibility of opting in.
in writing. - the situation of women in the union has stagnated in some respects and worsened in others in recent years. the economic crisis has negatively affected the position of women in the socioeconomic sphere, as cuts in social services, wages and employment have affected women more than men. it is essential that gender equality is further promoted in the eu and that member states are asked to prioritise this issue in their economic strategies. that is why i voted in favour of this report. the report is right about women's representation in all types of enterprises. it is vital that overall data on the representation of women in the union are collected in order to study the measures implemented in the business sector of the member states with a view to increasing this representation. the introduction of quotas is an effective and still necessary instrument for increasing female representation, as it allows progress towards gender equality and to some extent alleviates the consequences of the economic crisis for women.
in writing. − the european union has been an important player in fighting for gender equality anti-discrimination. however in spite of the best efforts, gender equality in the eu is far from being achieved. legislation may have changed, but traditional gender roles, gender stereotyping and taboos remain an important obstacle to fundamental change. the economic independence of men and women is key to gender equality. the current economic crisis risks putting us back years, as it may ultimately hit women hard than men. so efforts to improve labour market participation, and access to positions of power such as company boards, need to stay high on the agenda. the gap between the position and status of women and men in some countries outside europe is often dramatic. women have fewer rights or no rights at all. the eu and its member states need to do much more to improve the situation of these women, starting with their health. it is not only sufficient funds that are needed, but also a radical change in mentality and tradition.
in writing. − women's participation in political activities related to decision-making is alarmingly low. i am voting for the report because it proposes to change the current situation by promoting gender parity in decision-making processes. to achieve this objective, political parties in europe must be directly involved, for example by introducing quota systems for lists of candidates and elections, or alternating between female and male candidates at the top of the lists. it also urges national parliaments and the european parliament to take concrete measures to promote gender parity. as for the commission's actions in this case, i consider them to be a great step forward. however, to ensure successful implementation of these actions, political parties wishing to campaign for greater participation of women in decision-making should be provided with resources to do so. given that next year will be dedicated to european citizens, it is a great opportunity to encourage and finance actions to defend the rights of women in the union.
in writing. − in favour. among other things, it welcomes the parity systems/gender quotas for elections introduced by legislation in some member states; calls on the member states to consider introducing legislative measures, such as positive action measures, to make progress toward parity and ensure the efficiency of these measures, when compatible with the electoral system and when the political parties are in charge of the composition of the electoral list, through zipper systems, monitoring and effective sanctions in order to facilitate more balanced participation of women and men in political decision-making;
in writing. − in favour. our key points were maintained. these included: the importance of cooperatives and other social economy enterprises as part of the european social model with 160 000 cooperatives for around 5.4 million employees; strong criticism of the commission for lack of resources (staff, coordination, activities) and action in the field, with a call for urgent improvement; the need for eu policies in all areas to recognise/respect the specificities and added value of social economy enterprises; criticism of the shortcomings of the statute (sce) and its lack of use with a call for more action/improvements; and an insistence that all stakeholders be involved in the revision process on the future of the statute. the social economy stakeholders have followed the report attentively and fed into this. sven giegold has been seen as one of the key actors in this field. he called for an open method of coordination for the social economy, for a european year of social economy and for better business-support measures (consulting, training, funding access) especially for employee buy-outs. he stressed how parliament’s recommendations on cooperatives were being largely ignored by the commission and recalled that parliament had previously called for the specificities to be recognised, the sme observatory to include social economy enterprises in its surveys, for better dialogue and for a better legal framework.
in writing. − as the right to education is one of the eu's fundamental values, the bologna process plays a key role in its consolidation. facilitating and promoting mobility, recognition and employability between member states is key to achieving the europe 2020 targets for jobs and growth. i have supported this report because it highlights the eu's commitment to young europeans, guaranteeing them the opportunity to enjoy a multicultural education and full recognition, regardless of their origin or financial resources. the bologna process and the consolidation of the eees are also important if europe is to overcome the current economic insecurity. the member states and the eu are therefore urged to support this process by increasing public investment in higher education institutions and facilitating access to scholarships for students. the research and innovation functions of european universities also require increased investment by the member states and the eu, as they are essential for the future development of the union.
in writing. − in favour. among other things, the report mentions that one of the factors that have slowed down progress in terms of results is the top-down nature of the process. the process was first created by the political will of national governments; only in the second phase did it progressively involve leaders of academic institutions within the european university association (eua), and the process has yet to be fully integrated into european universities, students and families. a radical change and more complete involvement of all the stakeholders in the management of its goals, and in identifying new measures to support it, are therefore required. another aspect of the ‘unfinished governance’ of the process is the fragmented actions taken by individual member states. the small budget provided for achieving the objectives is one reason for part of that same criticism: the illusion that the bologna process could be achieved at no cost.
in writing. − in favour. this is a non-controversial report that highlights a certain number of highly consensual recommendations made by the european parliament in order to enhance the quality management of economic statistics including the following main elements: - gradual transition is recommended from a corrective approach to a preventive approach to the quality management of european statistics in general and public finance statistics in particular; - the commission is urged to forward proposals for legislation aimed at introducing elements of the revised european statistics code of practice into eu law, with a view to distinguishing clearly between the responsibilities and competences of national statistical agencies and those of member state governments; - eurostat is encouraged to disclose publicly whether it has doubts concerning the accuracy across all types of statistics; - eurostat is urged to look at ways to make its publications, particularly those online, more user-friendly to the average citizen and non-professionals especially with regard to the use of graphs; eurostat’s website should in particular allow easier access to complete long-term data series and include intuitive comparative graphs (green input).
member of the commission. − i believe the truth is – and there should be consensus that – a completely unsuitable financial situation developed in greece in the pre-crisis years. the greek economy has lots of capacities and potential, and the greek people are actually very hard-working – we know that from the labour statistics – but the point is that this unsustainable financial situation was also partly due to the fact that too many people were employed, in an inefficient way, in the public sector. restructuring has to take place. the efficiency and the effectiveness of public administration has to improve, partly to run the economy and the public sector as such but also to ensure that the european assistance provided through structural funds can be used in a more efficient way. we have made much progress in this area. the european social fund was not implemented very well in earlier years, but in the last year we have managed to double the esf absorption rate, which not only directly helps job creation and promotes enterprise but also helps to implement administrative reform. we also discussed this with mr papademos two weeks ago, when he was in brussels. at the end of this month i will go to athens and see how the situation is developing on the ground.
the new spanish government, which is supposed to be market oriented, does not agree with the new ten-t regulation and with the new map of european priority projects for rail freight transport. it seems that spain will push to include more and more corridors, diluting the concept of european interest and european added value in the priorities that the commission has identified. this position of the new spanish government is creating confusion and worries in catalonia, especially in many multinationals. they are now considering freezing new investments until the uncertainty regarding the mediterranean corridor is over. could the commission confirm that it will stick to the criteria of cost-benefit analyses and european technical standards when considering projects? moreover, will the commission keep it mandatory for member states to implement the core network projects identified?
member of the commission. − the last time i was in strasbourg four weeks ago i actually gave an interview outside, on this corridor, to a dutch television station when i said that the dutch government has to clarify its position about this notorious internet website which unfortunately fuels sentiments against migrant workers. this was followed by the epsco council where minister kamp gave his views about this situation to fellow ministers from other european member states. i think this case is very, very unfortunate. countries like the netherlands where there is a greater level of prosperity – although there are difficulties at this time in terms of growth and budgetary issues – in comparison to the rest of europe are in quite a good situation, with a relatively low unemployment rate, and should demonstrate a more welcoming approach and a greater level of cooperation concerning free movement in general and also cooperation on social security coordination. this is why the netherlands is one of the countries to which i am writing a letter following the notification about the continuing restrictions on free movement vis-à-vis romania and bulgaria.
member of the commission. − as i outlined last june in a stakeholder conference on the posting of workers, we are working on a package which will be forthcoming soon. it will include an enforcement directive and – as you just said – a monti ii regulation concerning the exercise of fundamental social rights in the context of cross-border services. this follows in the footsteps of a monti i regulation, which did the same in the context of cross-border trade, so in this respect this forthcoming regulation is not inventing anything particularly new. it actually applies an existing approach to a new issue area, which is cross-border services, like for example construction or temporary agency workers coming to agriculture on a temporary basis, because that is the nature of posting. this is not about restrictions and this is not about reversing the jurisprudence of the european court of justice. we clarified this a long time ago. this is the way we are developing and finalising the text of this proposal.
member of the commission. - i am sorry, mrs schroedter, but as you have also asked me, i want to supplement what lászló andor has just said in a more general way. we are working together to implement an agenda that you are well aware of, since several of your committees - including the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, but not only - have actively participated with rapporteurs. the single market act contains 12 levers for growth, one of which concerns social cohesion and services. the 12 key proposals include the text my colleague and friend mr andor has just spoken of, on the posting of workers. what i simply want to say, in general terms, is how we are working on the implementation of this single market act phase i and how we are preparing - president barroso said this morning - the second wave, for next autumn, of twelve new facilitating proposals. each of these - we made a commitment to several of the members of your assembly and to your assembly - is being studied with a measure of its social impact. each of these measures must respect the collective and individual rights of workers. finally, overall, as i have personally ensured with my colleagues, and in particular mr andor, this agenda restores the foundations of the competitive social market economy. the four words are important, not just one, two or three of them, the four words! i will therefore make sure that in the new wave of the single market act and in the implementation of the current measures, we preserve the balance that you clearly see in the 12 growth levers we have identified and are working on.
member of the commission. − the fear which comes through your question is probably related to certain leaks. unfortunately, this happens sometimes, but i would like to encourage you to ignore these leaks and their various interpretations and to wait for the final text. i think the final text will be a balanced one. we have listened to the social partners in many fora over the last two years, including the stakeholder conference which i mentioned, but there has also been more direct contact. the eventual development of the text took into account what we heard from the social partners, including the trade unions. as this proposal is in its final development phase inside our services and will shortly be submitted, i would simply request a little more patience, and the proposal can be discussed once it has been adopted.
member of the commission. - mrs jazlowiecka, it is also a very important question to find the right balance between what we are doing in each country, with great courage on the part of governments, to control public finances, to clean up budgets, to reduce the deficits or debts of today which will be taxes for our children. the collective measures we are putting in place with your support, with the six-pack and soon the new budgetary treaty, are to ensure that europe is well managed and that each country is well managed, while ensuring that these measures, which are all rigorous, do not lead to a halt in growth. i think it is time to build a european growth initiative and to put together, in a proactive plan, short-term measures, such as those that have been taken or are being taken to get the interbank sector back on track, and that has been the very important role of the european central bank and the european investment bank, such as the targeted reorientation of the structural funds and the project bonds that our colleague mr callas spoke about earlier. these are short-term measures. and then the medium term, because it takes time to vote on the texts, is the ecosystem that we are creating together with these 50 measures to facilitate the internal market. mobility, investment, innovation, venture capital, and, madam president, in the middle of all these measures is the sector you mentioned, which is very important to me. it is not by chance that it is in the twelve levers. this is social entrepreneurship, which now accounts for between 15 and 18% of european employment and gdp. all the social economy enterprises for which we have already put on your table the status of a new financial vehicle: the solidarity investment fund. more recently, the statute of the european foundation. and we will continue to help this sector which is very important to me. these are profitable companies, but they are also companies with a particular ethic, either in the composition of their staff, for example disabled or people in integration, or in the markets they are trying to conquer in social or environmental terms. so i will patiently pursue the measures to implement the financial, regulatory and legal ease of this sector of social entrepreneurship.
member of the commission. − i can answer very briefly. as you know, the annual growth survey for 2012 highlighted the importance of addressing the social consequences of the crisis, and many recent initiatives, including for example the youth opportunities initiative, underline the importance of the european social fund in addressing these issues and intervening where it can. that is why a few minutes ago, when the discussion was about greece, i also underlined the importance of, for example, the esf in supporting the continued provision of social services so as to prevent the recession from causing even greater damage. we are working with the member states, especially those most severely affected, to find new solutions. these new solutions very often have to be cost-effective and budget-neutral, because we also have to ensure that fiscal consolidation goes ahead. consequently the commission’s services and the exchange of experience between member states are very helpful for those who have to make progress in terms of social investment and in finding new ways to address social needs.
member of the commission. − the panel organised last week in the european parliament in brussels was extremely helpful as a means of promoting and developing some of these ideas. of course some of the comparisons made may not be exactly helpful; for example, the comparison with the new methods of fiscal policy coordination, which also, unfortunately, sometimes apply sanctions to member states. but i understand your message. that message is very clear. we have to strengthen the social dimension of european economic governance. we have to ensure that europe emerges from the crisis with less damage to society, so that we can return more quickly to job creation. we have many initiatives in the pipeline to deliver that. in that context, i would like to underline the importance of the forthcoming employment package in april.
mr president, a while ago we had a crisis with the icelandic volcano and the ash problem: airports were closed and many passengers suffered great losses. i would like to ask mr kallas whether he has followed up on the observance of the rights of passengers, of the thousands and thousands of people who were at the airports at that time. secondly, the connecting europe facility will develop pilot projects. i would like to know if we have any idea what the pilot projects might be that are going to start up in the first place. thirdly, a question to mr andor: i said recently that euskadi, with the same legislation as the spanish state, because of its development of the real economy, because of its development of the productive economy, has half the unemployment rate of the spanish state, but has also achieved a great deal of development in the social economy. do you plan to improve social economy legislation at european level? finally, i would like to ask you what role the regions will play in overcoming the economic and political and social crisis, given that there are good practices, such as those in the basque country, which can be a model at european level.
vice-president of the commission. − i shall start with ash. the ash crisis had serious lessons for us to learn, and we have also reached serious conclusions. after the first eruption of ash from eyjafjallajökull in april 2010, the coordination and collaboration mechanism between member states and the european institutions was strengthened, ensuring that the next eruption in april 2011 had far fewer negative consequences. the most significant project to facilitate air transport will definitely be the single european sky project, which is still developing and which will have a very important role to play in the trans-european network and in connecting europe facility projects. these will all make air transport easier and prevent serious delays.
mr president, i would like the commissioner to answer the following question: what happened to passenger rights? because we agree with the development of the project that you said 'there is no question about it', but what has happened and what follow-up has been done by the european institutions with regard to passenger rights?
vice-president of the commission. − we have proposed a new trans-european network map; this is currently under discussion in the council. this definitely increases the role of the eastern part of the european union substantially because we have a ten-t network which was adopted before the accession of the new member states. nobody has so far said that this is not enough in terms of money. let us first decide this part of the european budget, and let us create mechanisms enabling financial contributions from the private sector, such as project bonds. contributions from national budgets and the national governments should be made according to the plan. the governments themselves will decide whether everything will be implemented, and whether to allocate a much bigger amount of money for the trans-european network. this can definitely make a substantial contribution to the growth and development of transport.
member of the commission. − i share you view that a country cannot develop competitiveness in the long run purely by holding wages down. wages also play an important role in terms of sustaining aggregate demand in the economy, and demand is also very important if we want economic growth. however, given how the single market and the single currency have developed in the european union, we now have to ensure that imbalances do not undermine the stability and the growth potential of the european economy as such. while it is true that the european commission has no competences as regards wage-related questions, we have to see how, in the broader framework of economic governance, wage-related questions – wage trends, wage-setting mechanisms – can play a role in terms of developing a more stable and more dynamic environment. that is why last year, in the economic semester, some of the country-specific recommendations also pointed to certain wage-setting mechanisms which may have a role in helping – or, if they malfunction, undermining –economic competitiveness, which is why we engaged in dialogue with the member states. but this was – and continues to be – a dialogue. the commission is not imposing certain solutions on the member states, but we would like to see a constructive approach, and an understanding of the importance of these methods, on the part of the member states also.
member of the commission. − (microphone off at start of speech) ... your earlier report in the european parliament did of course make a substantial contribution to the debate on minimum income, but i would like to repeat what i said to you some months ago, which is that it would be extremely difficult to envisage legislative proposals on this issue at european level. however, within the member states – depending of course on national traditions and conditions – there is great potential to ensure that there is progress. there are measures, including legislative ones, which can prevent the rise of poverty. especially in times of crisis, we have to protect the income level of the population, and particularly of the most vulnerable groups, which can include pensioners. that is why – in cooperation with michel barnier, who was also part of our efforts to develop sustainable and adequate pensions – we also sought to ensure that, regardless of whether someone is working or retired, there is a guarantee of a decent income level. we are maintaining this holistic approach to governance. as regards wages and wage setting, which was the original focus of your question, we will definitely continue our cooperation with the social partners, who have a fundamental role in this area in the member states.
member of the commission. - mr de backer, on the first point, i am very pleased that for the first time since the beginning of question time the role of small and mediumsized enterprises is being mentioned. 90% of the economic fabric, 90% of the 22 million european enterprises are small or mediumsized enterprises, sometimes even sole proprietorships. so i want to confirm the line that has been ours for two years. i announced it at the very beginning of my mandate. we want to reconcile small and mediumsized businesses and consumers with the single market, which they have felt for too long was not for them, but for the big and the fat! you must look carefully, mr de backer, at all the texts that we are presenting or publishing, together with our colleague mr tajani in particular, and that is in particular the single market act. you will find in each case this particular attention - sometimes new - to the role, to the investment capacity, to the administrative ease, to the simplification, to give european smes the best ecosystem. let me give you an example. in the case of measures of bank capital, since this is the subject you are referring to, the question of where to find financing - we were talking about liquidity. with mr tajani, we asked the european banking authority if we could not go further - more balanced, less stringent measures for banks when they are obliged to provide for prudential measures when lending to small and mediumsized enterprises. we will maintain this more favourable criterion for small and medium-sized enterprises in prudential measures. in addition to the instrument we have just presented for venture capital, which is of particular interest to small and mediumsized enterprises, we have presented a passport which is currently being discussed in parliament. i am working, in particular, within the framework of mifid on the idea of a european sme exchange or a network of european sme exchanges. we have simplified the reporting requirements for small and mediumsized enterprises in accounting matters when they are listed - i am talking about listed companies - with the simplified prospectus, we have reduced the transparency requirements. we have made it easier for small and mediumsized enterprises to access public procurement by drastically reducing the administrative requirements for participating in tenders and we have also, within the framework of the small business act, for which mr tajani is responsible, closely followed all the measures which should facilitate investment by and through small and mediumsized enterprises.
vice-president of the commission. − of course the trans-european network and the ten-t project are major undertakings. the results are very concrete for every member state, so the discussions are really very serious. we will be having a council meeting next week at which we expect the council to adopt the general approach concerning the ten-t guidelines, namely the maps and the network. we are definitely ready to make some compromises, but we will definitely keep the basic principle that this must be a trans-european network. what follows will be more difficult. this is a discussion about connecting europe which is not in the hands of transport ministers, but mostly in the hands of finance ministers. so there are two parts. i think that the ten-t maps and ten-t guidelines will be more or less satisfactory with regard to the trans-european dimension of this project. if they are not satisfactory, the commission definitely will not accept any watering down of this project.
member of the commission. − as you know, this governance package is being followed up by our colleague olli rehn, whose task is very difficult. you can see that we are moving out of this difficult crisis spiral and into this more positive spiral where we talk and act for growth. i am talking about the recommendations that are being made and that the member states will have to follow in terms of structural reform and budgetary consolidation. perhaps by drawing on the good examples - and there are some in europe - they should focus their efforts on sectors and issues that are growth-generating. i personally think, and i know my colleague olli rehn agrees, that everything that has to do with investing in the future, investing through small and mediumsized enterprises in education, research and training, must be safeguarded or encouraged, even if we have to make efforts. for the rest, mr de backer, we have a whole agenda of facilitating measures, some 50 measures that we are putting in place. if you read the single market act, the 12 levers of growth and all the proposals that are on your table, at least 20 of them, with hardworking rapporteurs, you will see quite frankly that 80% of them have an interest in smes in the ecosystem we want to create, where the single market is now a space of opportunities rather than a space of constraints, especially for smes. finally, i could give many examples, from patents to venture capital, simplified accounting standards, transparency rules and prudential measures in the banking sector.
member of the commission. - representative, please. from your words, i think you can sense that at this time the relationship between the european institutions and hungary was quite tense. but i also think it's important that we think about this with a cool head and without any resentment. anger is not the answer. and it's very important that we get the historical overview that you gave us right. for example, the flow of capital to hungary started long before hungary became a member of the european union. i suggest that we focus on the present, and here i think it's very important to understand that the european commission wants to help hungary. he wants to help you regain investor confidence, regain a more dynamic economic growth. restore financial stability and the government can run the economy according to european standards, european legislation. this requires very close, constructive cooperation. it's started, the government has been giving signals in many ways since the beginning of january that it's trying to reach an agreement on certain contentious issues. the negotiations are underway. unfortunately, this process is sometimes interrupted by noise that can cause unnecessary emotions, sometimes personal. i trust that we can resolve any issues in a constructive manner.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr giovanni la via, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the broad guidelines for the preparation of the 2013 budget section iii commission (2012/2000(bud)) (a7-0040/2012).
member of the commission. − mr president, i welcome in the name of the commission the position of parliament on the guidelines for 2013 and what is more i agree with the major points as presented by the rapporteur, giovanni la via. indeed, properly shaping the last budget of the multiannual perspective 2007-2013 is quite a challenge, as is shaping it in the context of overall consolidation of national finances. nowadays austerity and consolidation are not the only dimensions of the economic debate in europe. what is next and what is equally important is how to boost investment, how to boost employment opportunities, especially for the younger generation and how to support small and medium-sized companies in europe. here is the place and here is the added value of the european budget and here is the perspective we should also seek for the european budget in the discussions over 2013. in order to properly shape the budget for 2013 we should take into account the logic of the multiannual perspective. it is a very well known logic. everything is moving late but moving at cruising speed at the end of the financial perspective and we should remember, as mentioned by the rapporteur, the lesson of 2011. another important lesson is the full implementation of commitments and payments, but also more than 100% consumption and implementation in many areas, for example competitiveness and innovation – 135% implementation; lifelong learning – 107%; social fund – 111% of what was assumed for 2011. there is also the lesson of reimbursements. bills for reimbursement came late in december. the inability of the commission to pay what it should pay for legitimate projects in several countries is also affected by the crisis. we are not able, due to the shortage of money, to repay rome over eur 2 billion, to repay madrid more than eur 2 billion and to repay more than eur 1 billion to athens. this is an important lesson for drawing up our draft budget for 2013 and i think for the conciliation procedure of 2013. there is also inflexibility over financial regulation; that is the inability to transfer what is underspent to what should be spent at the end of the year. these are the reasons for the cash-flow problem today and it cannot be repeated next year with the accumulation of all sorts of problems. therefore in 2013 we should be equally sensitive to negative priorities, that is what is under-implemented, but also how to boost the growth opportunities and investment opportunities for the younger generation via existing means at our disposal. additionally we have to find a place for iter financing and we also have to accommodate croatia joining as member state number 28 as from july 2013. therefore, concerning the area of savings and to prove that we are really taking into account all sorts of things in the environment of today’s europe, we must consider administration. that is why we should not grow in administration. in the commission we are starting the programme of annual cuts, not waiting for the next financial perspective but starting for 2013 – 1% cuts in the administration of the commission every year. let us hope that this time we are drawing on the lessons of experience and i count very much upon the wisdom of the people elected by the people, here in parliament.
mr president, commissioner, more and more people in europe think that this is the problem, but the real problem is this europe of austerity, sanctions and impositions, with which many of us here today do not agree. i say this because, in the debate on policy guidelines, the important thing is not to go into the details of the policies we are going to finance, but to agree on our strategy, which is where i think we are failing. i really hope that, in your words, the 2013 budget proposal is in line with what you have said here, because then we will be on the right track. but so far you have given priority to short-term and short-term debates over long-term and structural debates, you have been more concerned with the consequences of the crisis than with its causes and you have imposed austerity as the only way out of the crisis. and, as you have said, history has shown that austerity has never worked. in this report we therefore ask them to use the budget to implement measures that strengthen solidarity and stimulate sustainable economic growth. the european budget is clearly too small to get us out of this crisis, but it can and must play a decisive role in setting our priorities by putting 150 billion euros at its disposal. on 30 january, the members of the european council issued a declaration stressing the need to invest in growth and job creation, particularly in smes and among young people. they announced loudly in the commission that we were going to invest 82 billion euros in this, but the truth is that we have not heard much of that announcement since. we've gone from headline to silence. they have to work in the eu budget to develop the europe 2020 policies - which we always forget - to foster competitiveness and innovation; they have to present a budget that supports smes and prevents them from reducing their investments because of the crisis; they have to commit to a sustainable industrial policy; they have to urgently address unemployment and the rising level of poverty in the eu; and they can only do this with a serious and responsible budget, coordinated with national budgets and geared towards meeting the priorities of the union. but if you continue to look at the budget as a box full of figures to cut, you will be wrong. if you think that to finance iter we have to cut back on innovation and research, you are wrong once again. and if you continue to focus your debates on how to cut or delay payments, you will no longer only be wrong, but you will be breaking the legislation that you yourself have passed. commissioner lewandowski, we know that times are difficult, but we also know - and you have said it here today, and i hope you will keep your word - that things can be done differently and can be done better. so let's join forces, mobilize resources and meet our goals.
mr president, commissioner, in your speech you referred to economic growth and its impact on job creation as one of the objectives of this budget, which naturally should be strengthened. but the austerity policies which are currently being suffered by many member states, many regions and, above all, the human part of european society, which is the people, severely limit the investments planned in economic, social and territorial cohesion policy. i therefore wonder, since they refer to youth unemployment, why not include the youth unemployment indicator in the next programming of the structural funds and cohesion policy, and not just the income criterion, especially at a time when a large part of european society is unemployed and, mainly in some member states, without prospects of finding alternative jobs, despite having highly educated generations of young people. this has been seen today in reference to increased public investment in universities and higher education.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 14 march, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following is the joint debate on the recommendation by vital moreira, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the international cocoa convention 2010 (09771/2011 c7-0206/2011 2010/0343 ((nle)) (a7-0024/2012), and the commission statement on child labour in the cocoa sector.
mr president, in a situation of economic crisis and budget cuts which are affecting both public health and, as in the case of the autonomous community in which i live, research centres such as prince philip, which specialises in diabetes, are left without funds, this resolution is better than ever, it is absolutely appropriate. we need a common european strategy against diabetes and we need a council recommendation telling the states that they have to increase research, including with stem cells, that they have to coordinate their results to optimise them and that they have to establish programmes for healthy eating and living habits. in short, we must put the health of the individual above all else and, in this case, research, coordinate and develop national programmes coordinated by the commission to obtain results on diabetes, and thus guarantee the quality of life of europeans and their own lives. if we spend more money on this, some may take a little longer to recover, but those who are now in trouble will certainly have a better quality of life and we will be, as states, as council and as commission, fulfilling one of the obligations we have, which is to look after the health of our citizens.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr joão ferreira, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1198/2006 on the european fisheries fund, as regards certain provisions on financial management applicable to certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability (com (2011) 0484 - c7-0219/2011 - 2011/0212 (cod)) (a7-0447/2011).
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the fisheries sector in europe is going through a difficult period and if we also talk about the fisheries sector in countries which have economic adjustment programmes, the situation is even more dramatic. i congratulate the commission on this, because by increasing the co-financing of european fisheries fund programmes we will help various countries - including greece, ireland and portugal - to have more liquidity and to be able to continue to implement the cohesion programmes which will help their economic recovery by creating jobs and stimulating growth. the retrospective application of the measures from 1 january 2012 will help to do this, and we hope that it will be enough to apply them until 31 december 2013, because that will mean that europe is coming out of this rut. i believe that by this decision the european institutions will be showing that they are up to the task. i therefore hope that this report can be adopted at first reading, as the rapporteur expects.
mr president, madam commissioner, the spanish socialist delegation can only congratulate and support the initiative, because we fully agree that it is necessary for the countries which are suffering in a much more bloody way from the economic and financial crisis and the policy of budgetary adjustments which is being carried out and promoted by the council of the european union. we believe that, through increased funding from the fund, it is possible to help these countries to implement policies not only of european cohesion but also of sustainable development of fisheries and employment in their territories. and above all, this is possible because we believe that the degree of implementation of the programme - which ends in 2013 - is 28%, that is, a figure that really shows that we are in a crisis that prevents those countries and us, the spanish, from addressing the policy that was approved.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 14 march, at 12 noon.
the following is the report by godelieve quisthoudt-rowohl, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 617/2009 opening an autonomous tariff quota for imports of high-quality beef (com (2011) 0384 c7-0170/2011 2011/0169 cod)) (a7-0025/2012).
mr president, commissioner, this is the first time that parliament has participated in this type of procedure under the lisbon treaty, on an equal footing with the council, to give its consent to the amendment of a regulation which is, as the rapporteur said, a well-planned commitment. this regulation resolves a conflict which, as the previous speakers have said, has been going on for many years. the european union banned the import of hormone-treated meat. the united states and canada responded to the european union by raising tariffs on some products considered sensitive. these were products such as chocolate, bread, pork and juices, with consequences for large areas, in particular in my country, in the levant. on the one hand, this agreement is good news for european consumers. the european union is maintaining its position of banning all imports of hormonal beef and, in return, is opening an additional quota for imports of high-quality beef. on the other hand, european producers who had been harmed by the tariff increase benefit, since this meant a tariff burden of eur 190 million for the european union seven million, specifically, for my country. the aim is also to increase market shares for these products in the united states and canada, where exports have fallen by 90% in ten years. the european commission should therefore be congratulated for these negotiations, which prevented the united states from applying the 'cruise' measure in 2009, which would have led to an increase in the number of products to which higher tariffs would have been applied. in conclusion, we support this commitment by the european union, which ensures the protection of the european consumer and also helps us to normalize trade relations with the united states and canada. this type of negotiation can be a good example of conflict resolution. we have discussed the import of beef from the united states. spongiform encephalopathy has been around for a long time, and we're out of the woods. we must therefore ensure that long-standing and unresolved problems are solved by such agreements.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 14 march, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr godelieve quisthoudt-rowohl, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy as regards the procedures for adopting certain measures (com ((2011) 0082 - c7-0069/2011 - 2011/0039 (cod)) (a7-0028/2012).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 14 march, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
unfortunately, we're going to start with some bad news. as you know, a terrible traffic accident occurred last night in switzerland involving a belgian bus carrying 52 passengers, almost all or many of them children, and among them 22 have lost their lives and others are in a rather serious situation. the president of parliament, mr martin schulz, has asked me to inform you that he will pay tribute to the victims at the beginning of the voting period and that a minute's silence will be observed at that time. in any case, mrs véronique de keyser wishes to speak and we naturally give her the floor, as we all do, in dismay and send our message of grief and solidarity to the families of the victims and to the wounded as well.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the 2011 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (2011/2887 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. − mr president, in 2011 the country continued to sufficiently fulfil the political criteria, and the commission therefore reconfirmed its recommendation to open accession negotiations. nevertheless, we called for the pace of reforms to be intensified, in particular in the area of freedom of expression, and we therefore welcome the fact that the government of the country is listening to our remarks. today’s discussions are evidence of the close alignment of views between parliament and the commission on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in particular, and on enlargement policy in general. the discussions have focused on the areas where reform is urgently needed as well as the importance of the european union fulfilling its commitments towards the country. i will bring the views expressed here today with me when i travel to skopje. there i will meet with prime minister gruevski and his government and have a qualitatively new, structured discussion on the country’s reform process. by taking forward our cooperation in this way, we aim to create a new commitment to reforms and to boost the country’s european perspective. i also believe that a convincing track record of reforms can contribute to creating a positive political climate, which remains essential in order to clear the road for the start of accession negotiations in the near future. let me add the following personal remark. i have never failed to call on both skopje and athens to find a solution to the name issue through joint efforts and joint compromise. within that framework let me make the two following remarks. first, one of the lessons learned from europe’s sometimes challenging past is that the best way to care about the well-being and future of your own people – citizens – is also to care about your neighbours and the way you are perceived by them. secondly, another lesson learned is that your – our – identity, while having strong roots in the past, is defined by your – our – present and future steps.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner füle, you have just said that you are not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. let me begin by congratulating mr richard howitt on the great and wonderful work that has been done on this matter. i would also like to conclude that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has made some positive progress in recent years. the country has demonstrated political will and delivered concrete results which have helped to ensure good democratic and economic development, especially since the elections last year. i am confident that these efforts will continue throughout 2012. progress has been made in a number of areas. this is the case, for example, with the reform of parliament, which took place at the same time as the progress made in the parliamentary elections of 5 june 2011. it is good that a dialogue has now been opened on the remaining gaps in freedom of expression in the media. in a democratic society, diversity in the media is essential. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has also made progress in legal reform. it is welcome that steps have been taken to increase the independence of the judiciary and to strengthen its effectiveness. there is no doubt that a well-functioning and independent judiciary will be essential to the fulfilment of the eu criteria. however, it is worth noting that there is still a need to strengthen, inter alia, the independence of the judiciary and the professional approach. the legal framework for the fight against corruption has been adapted. however, corruption remains a serious problem for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the framework for public administration has been improved, but challenges remain in ensuring a more merit-based recruitment. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has also made progress in the area of cultural and minority rights, and the tenth anniversary of the ohrid framework agreement was thus a good occasion for increased dialogue between the various groups of the population in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. in 2005, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia was granted candidate status and has been pursuing reforms with a view to making further progress. the eu has put the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in line for eu membership, and this is a commitment which the union must live up to. i understand the members who in the debate today expressed disappointment that a decision to open accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has not yet been taken. at the same time, it is also clear that a country which wants to become a member of the eu in the long term must have a good dialogue with its neighbours. the name issue is a bilateral issue which should be resolved in a way that both parties can live with. this is important in order to reach an agreement on the opening of accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i sincerely hope that we will see progress in this area in the near future and i wish commissioner füle the best of luck with the forthcoming talks. the future of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is europe. let us take the appropriate steps to ensure that this happens as soon as possible.
the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution (see minutes) in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, wednesday 14 february, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the following item is added to the agenda of the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the 2011 progress report on iceland (2011/2884 ((rsp)).
mr president, the talk of enlargement is encouraging. no member state wants to leave the union; on the contrary, several want to join, including iceland. i welcome your desire for integration and the good pace of the accession negotiations. i say accession because that is what it is all about, accession, acceptance of the union acquis. the negotiations aim to establish the adaptations that the acceding country must make to the acquis and the timetable for doing so. the commission, in its report of october 2011, tells us that there are still no changes in icelandic fisheries legislation and that it is not in line with the union acquis. the existing restrictions on foreign investment in fisheries are also not in line with the acquis: they violate fundamental principles such as the right of establishment and the free movement of capital and services. iceland is an important fishing country, as is my country, spain, and my autonomous community, galicia. the integration of iceland will strengthen the fisheries sector in the union, but iceland, mr president, cannot remain outside the law of the union in this sector. i ask the commission to give this matter its full attention.
in writing. − in favour. the commission recognises that the sustained financial and economic crisis is increasing the pressure on national financial resources. in this context, it considers ensuring the smooth implementation of cohesion programmes to be of particular importance as a tool for injecting funds into the economy. nonetheless, the liquidity problems resulting from budget constraints are making it difficult to implement the programmes, particularly in the member states which have been most affected by the crisis. in order to ensure that these member states continue the implementation of the european fisheries fund (eff) programmes on the ground and disburse funds to projects, the commission proposal contains provisions that would allow increased payments to be made to these countries for the period they are under the support mechanisms. more specifically, it is proposed that a top-up of ten percentage points will be applied to the co-financing rates applicable to the priority axis of the programmes for newly certified expenditure submitted during the period in question. in applying the top-up, the co-financing rate of the programme cannot exceed by more than 10 percentage points the maximum ceilings set in article 53(3) of the eff regulation (75% and 50% respectively for eligible and non-eligible regions under the convergence objective).
in writing. - the economic crisis and budgetary constraints affect the implementation of the european fisheries fund, in particular in the member states with macroeconomic adjustment programmes: hungary, romania, latvia, portugal, greece and ireland. the third report on the implementation of the eff (2009) notes that austerity measures have reduced national co-financing and that the credit restriction has affected private beneficiaries, affecting the ability to access and use funds and compromising the cohesion objectives. i support the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1198/2006 so that, during the period in which support mechanisms exist, the commission can cope with an increase in payments to the countries concerned. for expenditure certified again and submitted during this period, a supplement of 10 points is proposed to the funding rates applicable to the priority axis of the programmes, without implying an increase in the total financial allocation. the new cofinancing conditions for the convergence regions and the rest, 15% and 40% respectively, may still be an obstacle to mobilisation. whether they should be reduced further will have to be considered. in addition, the possibilities of the eff itself should be reoriented and the financial instrument of regulation (ec) no 861/2006 should be included.
in writing. − in favour. for greens, the important point is that the eu has managed to maintain its own food standards and keep the eu market free from imports of hormone-treated beef. all beef shipped in from the us and canada under this quota will need to comply with the stringent food safety requirements set out in the eu legislation. it is also a victory with regard to the (often) perceived pre-eminence of wto rulings: it shows that you can apply your standards even in the face of wto rulings.
in writing. − abstention. when work on the understanding between the institutions started in 2010, the greens agreed to give the council an extra 18-month transition period on trade policy measures, under the premise that the commission would propose a reform of the basic anti-dumping regulation. for the greens, this is a field in which we hope to establish criteria for ecological dumping. nothing happened, however, in those 18 months and dg trade says quite clearly that it does not intend to propose a substantive reform of the anti-dumping regulation. consequently, in the vote on the omnibus i proposal in committee, the greens rejected all amendments proposing a shift to the advisory procedure in anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures. we did not receive support and, in the end, abstained in the final vote. the reason why we abstained and did not vote against is that, of course – in general terms – we do not favour giving the council powers which the parliament does not have, thus creating inequality between the legislators.
in writing. − abstention. from a green point of view, the main messages of the report (importance of eu budget for investments and recovery in europe, need for adequate payment appropriations, refusal to apply austerity policies to the eu budget) are perfectly acceptable to us. however, when it comes to some details of policy orientation, we very much regret that greening of the budget, despite two minor references to it in the text, is clearly not among the priorities of the rapporteur. we believe to the contrary that greener policies, e.g. in the field of structural policies, agricultural policies and r&d would lead to faster job creation and more growth than is currently the case for the very traditional eu budget. the group therefore decided to abstain, leaving the possibility open to vote against the eu budget at a later stage.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the establishment of this commission because it is necessary, because of the impact of money laundering companies and organised crime in the eu and in the member states, and because it has to analyse the implementation of legislation in this area and its compatibility with fundamental rights.
in writing. − in favour. i believe this is going be a major tool to analyse and evaluate the extent of organised crime, corruption and money laundering and its impact on the union and its member states and to propose appropriate measures to enable the union to forestall and counter these threats, including at international, european and national level; as well as to analysing and evaluating the current implementation of union legislation on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, and related policies, in order to ensure that union law and policies are evidence-based and supported by the best available threat assessments, as well as monitoring their compatibility with fundamental rights in accordance with articles 2 and 6 of the treaty on the european union, in particular the rights set out in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and the principles underpinning the union’s external action, in particular those set out in article 21 of the treaty.
in writing. − in favour. we believe – while acknowledging that direct contacts are the best option – that in view of budgetary constraints, as well as the responses given by judges in the study, such training and advice could also be provided via the internet (video-conferencing, on-line courses, webstreaming) as well as by means of exchanges. we also note that judges call for training programmes to be further assessed and adapted to their needs, while they seem to prefer interactive training where they can exchange experiences and discuss case studies to ‘classic’ (top-down) training formulae.
in writing. − in favour. this text urges states which have yet to ratify the un convention on the rights of the child or ilo conventions nos 138 and 182 to ratify and implement these conventions swiftly; expresses the view, moreover, that states should implement all appropriate policies to foster awareness of child abuse in the labour market and of the need to comply with existing national and international rules; and strongly condemns the use of child labour on cocoa plantations.
in writing. − in favour. the 2010 international cocoa agreement will replace the existing 2001 agreement, to which the eu is a party. the new agreement’s objectives are to promote international cooperation in the world cocoa economy; to provide an appropriate framework for discussion on all cocoa matters among governments and with the private sector; to contribute to the strengthening of the national cocoa economies of member countries; to strive to obtain fair prices leading to equitable economic returns for both producers and consumers; to promote an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable cocoa economy; to promote transparency in the world cocoa economy through the collection, analysis and dissemination of relevant statistics and the undertaking of appropriate studies; to strive to eliminate trade barriers; to promote and to encourage the consumption of chocolate and cocoa-based products; to encourage members to enhance cocoa quality. overall, the agreement aims to bring more transparency and sustainability into a sector on which 50 million livelihoods depend throughout the world. the international cocoa organisation (icco), established in 1973 and located in london, uk, will administer the provisions and supervise the operation of this agreement. all parties to the agreement are members of the icco.
in writing. − abstention. we greens/efa have not tabled any resolution on the diabetes epidemic, and as such are not participating in the joint resolution, for the following reasons: the resolution was asked for by the epp and alde despite the fact that parliament had adopted a comprehensive resolution on non-communicable diseases, including diabetes, less than six months ago, and we normally try to avoid pandering to the interests of specific diseases; it circumvented envi as the committee responsible. it was prepared by the european coalition for diabetes and the eu diabetes working group, both of which are largely if not entirely financed for their work and/or expenses by pharmaceutical companies.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, first of all i would like to express, both on my own behalf and on behalf of the high representative, my most sincere and heartfelt condolences to all the parents and families in belgium who have suffered such terrible losses in today’s tragic accident in switzerland. our thoughts are with the families and friends of the victims and with the belgian people. after that i will turn to russia. mr president, honourable members, it is a pleasure to be here again today to discuss with you the outcome of the presidential elections in russia on behalf of high representative/vice-president ashton. let me first of all thank parliament for the strong voice it has consistently given to european citizens’ concerns about democracy, fair elections and human rights in russia. russia is our largest neighbour; it is an important business partner and a strategic partner on many global and regional issues. so it matters to our citizens what the situation is with regard to human rights and the rule of law in russia. parliament followed both the russian state duma elections on 4 december and the presidential elections on 4 march very closely. it has adopted several resolutions expressing the expectations of european citizens that russia will live up to her international commitments to ensure free and fair elections. you have also given high representative/vice president ashton several opportunities to address the plenary on these crucial issues. in addition, several hearings, organised by the committee on foreign affairs, the subcommittee on human rights, the eu-russia parliamentary cooperation committee and individual political groups, have taken place since december on these elections and on human rights more generally. catherine ashton has asked me to thank parliament for all this important work. she also asked me in particular to convey the message that she shares parliament’s concerns about the case of the arrest and death in pre-trial detention of lawyer sergey magnitsky. restrictive measures are a sensitive instrument that should be considered in specific situations and in accordance with the respective eu guidelines. the european external action service is currently looking into possible ways to convey our expectation that the investigation of this case will be taken forward properly. the russian presidential election went largely as expected. osce and council of europe observers gave a clear evaluation: opportunities were not equal during the preparations, and procedural violence occurred during the voting and counting process itself. we agree with their preliminary report and will remind russia of its international commitment to free and fair elections. high representative/vice president catherine ashton issued a statement the day after the elections with five main elements. she recognised the clear victory of vladimir putin, noted international observers’ recognition of the significant civic engagement in these elections, referred to international observers’ findings of irregularities, encouraged russia to address these shortcomings and looked forward to working with the incoming president and new government on our shared modernisation agenda, which should cover both economic and political reforms. the day after the elections, outgoing president medvedev instructed the prosecutor general to examine the verdicts handed down to 32 convicts considered by the opposition as political prisoners, including mikhail khodorkovsky and his former business partner platon lebedev. the president has also ordered the justice ministry to prepare a report on the legal reasons for denying the registration of mikhail kasyanov’s, boris nemtsov’s and vladimir ryzhkov’s people’s freedom party. these are encouraging signals. the next step: we have a strong consensus in the eu that we must engage with russia – critically, yes, but also constructively. without russia we cannot solve the regional challenges in our common neighbourhood, in syria or iran, or most of the pressing global challenges such as climate change and the environment. this approach has been quite successful recently. with medvedev and the government led by mr putin, we have been able to build more constructive relations and to achieve results. russian wto accession is one key result that will bind this large economy into the international rules-based framework. the partnership for modernisation is another one. many projects have already been prepared and launched, including technical and regulatory modernisation as well as reforms of the judiciary and civil society involvement. we have also begun a process on common steps to be fulfilled before we could consider launching negotiations on a visa-waiver agreement. all of this will be of mutual benefit. the new civic and political awakening in russia has already led to some political reforms, with the first duma reading of bills introduced by president medvedev to liberalise political party registration rules and presidential candidates’ registrations and to reinstall direct elections of regional governors. the process is encouraging and will have consequences, especially in russia’s many regions. change may be slower than one would hope, but we should have patience. it is a good thing that both authorities and protesters want gradual evolution, not revolution. a cautious but real dialogue has begun between them, and the quality and dynamics of the political situation in russia have changed. the key issue for us now is how we can support this reform process. the bilateral initiatives just mentioned provide us with an excellent basis to build on. as cathy ashton has stated, the eu looks forward to working with the incoming russian president and the new government in full support of our shared modernisation agenda. the next major step in our strategic partnership, apart from all the ongoing regular work, will be the next eu-russia summit, due to be held in russia just before the summer. i thank you and look forward to hearing your views and to your resolution, which will be adopted tomorrow.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having today on russia is a very important one and it forces us to choose between what is desirable and what is possible. the resolution on which this parliament will be called upon to decide tomorrow is the result of very particular and concrete circumstances after the presidential elections. we are dealing with an official russia which still has a certain nostalgia for the soviet union and which is allowed to veto freedom in the un security council. a russia in which the president and the prime minister, in continuous alternation of power, take place without any shame. a russia in which elections are held that do not correspond to international standards, and a russia in which arrests of opponents occur, which takes us back to a not very glorious immediate past. but, mr president, a russia which is also a member of the council of europe, a member of the world trade organisation, which collaborates loyally with the oecd and which aspires to become a member of the oecd, and a russia in which, as in the countries of the arab spring, there are men and women who are fighting for their freedom and dignity. mr president, i think this is the central point of this resolution: to change things and to open up a space for dialogue and dialogue with the opposition whose rights have been violated and ignored. we should leave for later, for mr swoboda's report, the question of the institutional framework, the new association agreement between the european union and russia, which are two blocs called to understand each other. i believe, mr president, that the european union would like to appeal to the president-in-office of the council and the commission representative to mobilize all our efforts and all our influence so that what is desirable is possible, so that fundamental freedoms and rights for all are soon, and in a general way, a reality in russia.
mr president, russia is very important to the european union as a neighbouring european country and as a global player and permanent member of the united nations security council. that is why we want a very close relationship with russia to address issues of mutual interest and for global governance. but there are obstacles that hinder that close relationship. we cannot be satisfied with russia's behaviour in the syrian crisis and there are recent events, such as the duma elections in december or the presidential elections on 4 march, which have left us with a feeling of disappointment, of concern. the elections did not meet the democratic standards of a european country, a member of the council of europe and the osce. we are interested in a relationship of mutual trust with russia, but the fundamental ingredient of that relationship should be the community of democratic values, common respect for human rights, multiparty democracy and respect for the democratic opposition. the modern russia we want must be the russia of shared european values. on them we could build the intense relationship we desire.
president of the council. mr president, thank you for the debate. i think it's been exciting. as i said, i have new impressions from my visit to nigeria and i would like to add to some of the things that have been said. after that, i will leave the chair to the commissioner, who will take care of the rest. i would like to begin by saying that there are some who have an interest in making this a religious conflict. a dramatic religious clash. that is what boko haram wants - that this is the great religious clash. i think we have to be very careful not to play their game in a country where religions are sitting together in the same government, in a country where people of different religions are marrying each other, in a country where you live in a mixed society, in a country where you have just been able to avoid the big religious clash. i think we have to be very careful about playing the religious game here. that said, this is a fight for the right of all religions to be practised, to be protected, to be cared for. i think that in this debate it is important to remember that the first to be killed when boko haram takes over are the muslim groups who are carrying out their attacks in the north of the country. i would also like to join those who have deeply deplored the attacks by the same organization on 8 march. we have offered our heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims. we condemn these acts for what they are, namely criminal acts. killing other people is a criminal act, regardless of the argument used to justify it. i think it is important to reiterate that there is no argument on this earth that gives people the right to take the lives of other people in a political cause. that's why those who do this must be brought to justice. they're going to trial. they should be put in jail. they should not be made martyrs for what they have done. it's simple criminal acts to kill other people. i hope that some of you will have the opportunity to visit nigeria's political leaders, both their president and a number of their ministers. i hope you will come back with the same impression i had, namely that it is very rare to see an african country with political leaders of such high moral strength, such great skill. it is also necessary because they are facing enormous challenges in relation to a country with a very young population, a country with a high level of illiteracy, a country which is largely dependent on oil as its only source of income, a country which has problems with terrorism up north, a country which, moreover, is expected to double its population over the next 40 years. it is a bit of a mouthful for a government when you are the leader of a poor country. that is why it is so good that they have a government of such high moral standards as they do. it is remarkable that even in this situation, with the odds, nigeria is able to play the role of a stabilizing factor in relation to the west african regions, which have had a very high economic growth in recent years. i also agree with all those who have said that it is absolutely essential for a country like nigeria, which is not a poor country, to ensure that goods are distributed more effectively for the benefit of the many and to fight corruption. they try to do that, but the people who are in charge of fighting corruption don't stay in office very long - because it's a relatively dangerous job! with these remarks, i wish you a continued good debate. we need the european parliament to keep an eye on what is happening in this country, which may end up being the third largest country in the world in terms of population within the next 40 years.
mr president, commissioner, i must begin by condemning the violence that has been taking place in nigeria in recent months. nigeria is the most populous country in africa and the one with the best prospects for economic growth and attracting foreign investment. its status as an oil-exporting country allows it to obtain enormous resources which must be used for the fundamental task of fighting poverty and inequality which seriously affect the country. as the members of the committee on development have said on many occasions, human rights, democracy and development are synergistic and mutually reinforcing. at the root of the conflict in which nigeria now finds itself we can find the most abject poverty in which a large proportion of its population is mired. the country's wealth is not being redistributed among the poorest of the poor, leaving millions of nigerians vulnerable and without access to basic services. the european union, through its development cooperation policy, can make a real difference in the country. we must focus our common strategy to fight poverty on the provision of basic services, such as health and education, to the most vulnerable. the added value of the european union in this country should undoubtedly be to reduce inequalities and to ensure that the growth the country is experiencing translates into fewer and fewer people living in extreme poverty. but, look, because today we know better than ever that our policy of cooperation will not be enough. we must seek consistency in the rest of the european union's policies towards nigeria. i would also like to stress the importance of transparency and accountability for european companies operating in the country. i would like to conclude, commissioner, by pointing out that there is a very serious risk of a threat to nigeria and the west african and sahel region. the already prolonged drought, poor harvests, the lack of livestock and the increase, again, in the price of food are already indicating the arrival of a famine in the region. un agencies and civil society organizations are already announcing it. let us all react in time and respond to hunger before more victims are claimed in this region.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i want to start this speech by talking about people. our first priority is to free the men and women who remain today in the hands of pirates, wherever they operate. hundreds of human beings are suffering from a crime which has serious psychological consequences and require specialised attention and recognition and support which they do not now have, because the hostages of these kidnappings are being held hostage by organised, very violent mafias operating outside the union. european and national standards must recognise this. the humanitarian aid fleets, merchant fleets and fishing fleets that are victims of piracy are also carrying out lawful, fair activities, which are covered by international law. in the case of fisheries, they observe good environmental practices and support local development. from that perspective, pirates cannot justify their attacks, and we must not allow that. that is why it is necessary to extend operation atalanta, and i ask why the number of troops at your disposal has been reduced and how do you assess the somali authorization to attack pirate bases on the coast? i would like you to answer these two questions, commissioner. and what does encourage many to become pirates is poverty. today, more than 3,500 such criminals operate in organized gangs in the indian ocean alone. piracy forces shipowners, maritime professionals and public administrations to add about €5 billion to the cost of their operations each year. adding a small part of that amount to what we already spend on development and cooperation will benefit all of us, because we can eliminate poverty. in 2011, only 13% of the 237 attacks were successful, compared to 27% of those that reached their target in 2010. but the ransom payments have been record breaking. let's bet on insisting on those performances before it's too late.
blue card question to younous omarjee. you have referred to fishing vessels that are operating illegally. i ask you if you know how european vessels operate under the conventions signed by the european union, with good practices that could be a model and a reference in the international arena, and if you also know that, for example, 80% of local development in the seychelles is possible thanks to the presence of the european fleet, a presence that is demanded by the inhabitants of that area. i would also ask you to say, when you speak of illegal fishing, 'because it is very confusing for you to say' who you are talking about. because i believe that the european fleet, under the conventions signed by the european union, is a reference and a model, as i say, in the international arena. and if this model were followed, the sustainability of fisheries around the world would be different. so i would like you to answer these questions, if you can.
madam president, commissioner, we all know that piracy on the high seas is a continuing and growing threat to human life, security and development, and is a breeding ground for violence and political instability in somalia and the horn of africa. in figures, piracy in the gulf of aden has in the last year resulted in more than a dozen deaths in 30 attacks, 200 pirates captured, almost 200 hostages; a situation which has an unprecedented impact on humanitarian aid for some six million people who need assistance because of drought and famine in the region; a humanitarian crisis which has already resulted in the deaths of thousands of people. the money shipping companies are spending on security is 40 times the amount of eu aid to somalia. while we cannot underestimate the global effort that is being made through operations like atalanta and the nato deployments, we need more efforts, more commitments, efforts that must necessarily include an anti-piracy strategy driven and supported by the leaders of central and east africa. the fight against piracy has become a global problem that requires a joint and decisive response, with a series of effective actions to tackle also the root causes of this phenomenon: youth unemployment, famines, droughts and political instability. we cannot ignore the fact that, according to the united nations, 40% of the profits from piracy in somalia have been used to finance local employment and have been invested in infrastructure for the most deprived. finally, i ask the commission and the council to continue to take decisive action to tackle the root of the problem. helping the horn of africa to end piracy, which is not only increasing but also becoming more violent, must remain our priority.
mr president, on behalf of my colleagues who have co-sponsored this written declaration, mrs fiona hall, mrs teresa riera, mrs judith sargentini and mr filip kaczmarek, i would first of all like to express our pleasure at the fact that this written declaration has received such a large number of signatures, bearing in mind, moreover, that the issue of developing africa's scientific capacities and promoting euro-african radio astronomy partnerships is a subject of particular importance, followed with great interest throughout the continent, and particularly in south africa. i would like to express my gratitude, mr president, to all the signatories - including a team of young people who have been very enthusiastically collecting signatures and asking for the support of their colleagues in parliament - and to the government and the authorities of south africa, whose minister for science and technology, mrs pandor, will be in brussels next week to explain to the media the significance of this written declaration for the progress of the african continent and the southern tip of the continent in particular. i also want to urge the european commission to react constructively - as it should - taking into account the importance of this written declaration, which is very important for africa, which is very important for science and which is certainly very important for relations between the european union and everything that has to do with africa.
mr president, among the many issues raised by this debate i would like to highlight the issue of the emission allowance market, a market which was born with defects, to be sure. but today, the limitation of rights and the economic crisis have meant a drastic reduction in the price of carbon, that is, it is so low that it is cheap to pollute. it is therefore urgent to reform the design of a policy on this market because its deterioration threatens all green efforts, the whole green policy of the european union. if the emission allowances are not valued, the incentive to increase emissions is being given, polluting industries will not invest in new techniques and, what is worse, the financing of important projects, such as energy efficiency projects or carbon storage plants, will be jeopardised. this is the risk. it is up to us - the commission and parliament - to prevent this.
mr president, madam commissioner, i will deal with just two points and very quickly. the first is perhaps the most debated issue in the report and the one which causes the most disagreement, namely whether or not to deal with the emissions trading mechanism. obviously, like any other market 'in quotes' is suffering and is suffering downwards, but intervening in that market i think is a mistake. intervening to try to improve prices, as in other sectors, would be a serious mistake. what needs to happen is more growth. what we need to do is push it so that we can get out of the crisis and so the emissions market will be back to what it was. secondly, in relation to this road map which, as has been said here, has so many uncertainties, if we were to draw a plan with different avenues that would lead us to the final objective - which would be to have a low-carbon economy - there is one avenue, there is one route, which is the main one, which is that of energy efficiency. in that field, you can say and predict a lot of things. we have reached agreement on the energy efficiency directive with a great deal of effort from all the groups in this parliament. it is the same agreement that i and my group would certainly like to see reflected in the vote that will take place today on the report we are debating. i think, frankly, it's worth it. we have done that with energy efficiency, why don't we do that today with this report?
mr president, there is a problem that concerns me, and that is that for many people water is a non-renewable resource. water is partly renewable, not always. many aquifers are not renewable, but the water returns to the land. the problem is that it does not always return to the same place from which it came, that is to say, the water that evaporates in the mediterranean is precisely the water that rains on austria or prague, and this must be taken into account. i think that the agreements on transboundary waters are very good - and i think that the commission should put much more emphasis on this. as the directive states, a river must be managed in a uniform and unique way, but it must be much stronger and more powerful, and relations in the field of transboundary waters must be strengthened at international level. that seems to me essential, and we shall see that in the case of turkey, which will never want that, but we must insist. i think, however, that the control of the aquifers is very weak. there are technologies to control aquifers. most of the corruption is in the illegal extraction of water from aquifers. i therefore think it is essential that this point be taken into account, and there are technologies for this. i also believe that the relationship between agriculture and water needs to be reviewed, because there cannot be products that consume a lot of water and are treated as those that do not. if we put a price on water - i am a supporter of this in agriculture, and in my country it is paid, in my region it is paid - we must take into account that maize and lettuce, for example, consume much more water; then we are exporting water to all the countries to which maize or lettuce is exported. and that should be reflected in agricultural prices. it's a matter for reflection.
mr president, i come from the land of a thousand rivers, where our national poet, rosalía de castro, sang in her most famous poem about rivers and fountains. as elsewhere in europe, water has been commodified and privatized in recent years. large water infrastructure, which was not needed, was built, when citizens pay a high price to consume water and even the water from dams is not good for consumption. in this context of crisis, it is necessary to adopt a new model of water culture, to change the paradigm, to focus on sustainability. water is not just a factor of production, it is a right, an ecosocial factor, a public good. it's life for life. the two keys to the new water culture are: first, conserving and protecting water quality, preserving the functionality of rivers, streams, wetlands, and ensuring quality water resources; second, efficiency, moving to a management model... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, in order to achieve the greatest possible consensus, since we believe that this resolution should have broad support in the house, we propose an oral amendment to our amendment no 5, in agreement with mr swoboda, mr verhofstadt and other political groups. in its english version, this oral amendment would consist in adding the words 'strengthening and implementation' after the word 'introduction' and replacing the word 'condemns' by the word 'deplores'.
in writing. − abstention. although some good things were saved in the text, that is; endorses the commission’s roadmap together with its trajectory, the specific milestones for domestic emission reductions of 40 %, 60 % and 80 % for 2030, 2040 and 2050 respectively, and the ranges for sector-specific milestones, as the basis for proposing legislative and other initiatives on economic and climate policy; [trajectory implies 25% domestic reductions for 2020; acknowledges that 20 % energy efficiency would mean internal reduction of 25 % or more by 2020, and that, according to the rm, less ambitious approach would result in significantly higher costs; or recognises current 20 % climate target is not on a cost-effective pathway towards 2050; among others) it also kept very bad aspects, being the most damaging the no explicit call for move to a 30% (rcv am1/2: 232/383/15), or 25% domestic (rcv am1/1: 241/378/11)eu target for 2020 and the fact that member states should have widest possible means of achieving low-carbon electricity generation (including renewable energy sources, nuclear power, use of carbon capture and storage technology, and sustainably produced biomass) rcvpara72/2: 357/238/x).
in writing. − in favour of the resolution. as my colleague cornelissen stated before, this opprobrious website, which actively promotes discrimination and xenophobic attitudes against eu citizens who are exercising their right under eu law to live and work in another member state, should be roundly condemned, particularly by the dutch government. the ep has today spoken up in favour of core eu values but all eu governments should also do so. it is regrettable that dutch prime minister rutte lacks the gumption to condemn this website and defend the rights and values on which the european union is founded. eu citizens have the right to move, live, study and work wherever in the eu they like and should be welcomed, not discriminated against.
in writing. − one of the fundamental pillars of the eu is freedom of movement of all eu citizens. another is tolerance of cultural diversity, as ours is a continent with a very rich history. this is why it is the duty of the ep to condemn actions like the webpage created by the freedom party in the netherlands. this webpage may be a catalyst for increasing xenophobia against other eu citizens, and it should be condemned by the government of the netherlands and by the european council.
in writing. − in favour. this important text came after the very much welcomed released of the human rights defender evgeniy zhovtis, director of the kazakhstan international bureau for human rights and rule of law and the ‘vremya’ journalist tokhniyaz kuchukov, who were granted an amnesty by a court decision of 2 february 2012 after having been sentenced to four years in a labour camp in september 2009.
in writing. water is a source of life, not profit, it is the only essential resource that is irreplaceable: we must therefore do our utmost to ensure both its quality and the quantity available to each human being and to maintain ecosystems. water belongs to no one, it is not a commodity but a universal commons. in addition, as my colleague rivasi said earlier, access to safe drinking water has become a fundamental right since 2010, but we need to go further: we need to constitutionalize this right and promote a comprehensive management of water as a global public good. to do this, we cannot let private companies keep their hands on the water market. in france, the public service delegation has been challenged and there is a growing remunicipalisation of water management, under direct control, which environmentalists welcome.
author. − madam president, like many others i am deeply shocked and that is why i condemned the raids that the israeli troops carried out on the two palestinian tv stations in the west bank on 29 february, seizing equipment and thereby forcing the station to close. as many others have also said, this can only be considered to be an arbitrary and illegal operation, again serving to intimidate the palestinian media and journalists. these are the usual victims of repeated attacks by the israeli defence forces. that is why we have to urge – and that is what i hope we are going to do, when we vote the resolution – the israeli military to return the confiscated equipment and allow the two stations to resume broadcasting. let us remember these raids were carried out by the idf, accompanied by intelligence officers, on al-watan in ramallah and al-quds educational tv in al-bireh about two kilometres outside ramallah. both stations have been working with the european union for many years. there are no excuses any more. baroness ashton, the council and the commission should put the issue of the israeli intimidation of the palestinian media on the agenda of the eu-israel dialogue and take this into consideration in the eu-israel bilateral relations. in this context, it is the eu’s obligation to ensure consistency between the different areas of its external action and between this and each other’s policies, as mentioned in article 21 of treaty on the european union. finally, i have to remind you as well that this is not the first time that it has happened. it happened before, on 20 november 2011, when the israel ministry of telecommunications ordered the closure of all for peace, the radio station based in east jerusalem. it is again a moment to react.
mr president, for a significant part of the socialist group, a constructive but differentiated position within the european union on kosovo's independence has had very positive effects on the situation of progress in which we find ourselves today: it has benefited the european commitment to serbia and has contributed to stability in the region as a whole. if the european union had stood as a bloc on the side of one of the parties, many of the achievements and significant progress that have already been mentioned in abundance here, from bilateral dialogue to the european union's dialogue with both parties, would not have been achieved. we therefore consider that the call in the report for the member states which have not yet recognised kosovo to do so is not appropriate, nor do we consider any of the references which could be interpreted as implicit recognition of kosovo to be appropriate. we believe that this debate should focus on the problems affecting kosovo, such as corruption, organised crime, the economic situation or institution building, rather than on the debate on the recognition or non-recognition of kosovo.
mr president, the catalan liberal party that i represent fully supports the process of kosovo’s accession to the eu. i would like to remind you that, while we in this parliament are discussing the enlargement of the eu, there are five european countries that have not yet recognised kosovo as a new independent state. one of these countries is spain. i would like to call on all the european institutions to maintain pressure on spain to recognise kosovo’s independence. the eu cannot accept this incredible democratic deficit within its membership. i also welcome the fact that montenegro is making steps towards european integration after its independence in 2006. i thank the european union for being always respectful towards freedom and democracy.
mr president, i went and i stand in solidarity with kosovo. i was in the refugee camps in kukes, elbasan, stankovic, etc. during the time of milosevic. in my own city i welcomed many kla members on terms of solidarity. but today, mr president, in kosovo there are problems of corruption, of control of the media, of organized crime, of improved administration. today, mr president, i do not think that kosovo meets any of the conditions necessary for being either in the european union or an independent state.
mr president, spain does not recognise the state of kosovo and does not support its progressive integration into the union, forgetting that on 22 july 2010 the international court of justice ruled that its declaration of independence had not violated international law. kosovo was a state before serbian troops conquered it in 1912 and has been one of the areas of the former yugoslavia most punished by the genocidal milosevic. only out of respect for international law, out of solidarity with the victims of serbian colonialism and out of recognition of rugova's pacifism should this position change. i think that behind it there is only the fear of recognizing that it also has within itself nations whose inhabitants legitimately aspire to a different status. spain must understand that in the 21st century the will of the people, freely and democratically expressed, is the real foundation of sovereignty and, in this respect, commissioner, what is your opinion on this, after all the efforts you are making for the integration of kosovo?
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, on behalf of the danish presidency, i would like to thank parliament, and in particular mrs ria oomen-ruijten for her work. the motion for a resolution highlights a number of significant issues and concerns, and comes at an important point in eu-turkey relations. turkey is more to europe than a candidate country. it is also an essential strategic ally, playing a key regional role. as such, it has a privileged relationship with a number of crucial actors in the region. turkey is also an important and growing economic player. turkey and the eu have an obvious mutual interest in upholding strong ties with each other. only in this way can we contribute to containing and overcoming tensions in our neighbouring regions. the eu-turkey relationship is a close one and goes back several decades. this clearly not only illustrates our many shared interests; it also demonstrates the power of the enlargement process to give impetus to political and economic reform in turkey. we can all see that the accession negotiations are not advancing as quickly as we would like. however, if the opportunity for progress in negotiations arises, the danish presidency stands ready to seize it. we will do our utmost to facilitate progress, but needless to say, this will require additional significant efforts from the turkish side. we will also act in support of the commission’s positive agenda. we must not lose sight of turkey’s and the eu’s mutual interest in deepening our relations, in spite of the challenges encountered in the formal accession talks. it is clear that the positive agenda should be a complement to the negotiations and not a substitute for them. as stated by the council last december, turkey’s contribution to the eu will only be fully effective in the context of an actual negotiation process that makes progress. work on the actual content of this agenda is still at an early stage, but we are following and supporting developments with great interest. as far as the reforms in turkey are concerned, i will begin with a few words about constitutional reform. preparing a new constitution is now well under way. the process is an opportunity to address a number of important issues. it has to take place in a broad and inclusive way, and in a spirit of constructiveness and compromise. we very much welcome initial steps towards ensuring this. much of the work on this key reform is of direct relevance for the enlargement negotiations with turkey. while constitutional reform is important, further progress by turkey in other areas is required. as noted both in your resolution and in the council conclusions of december, some very important issues have to be addressed. however, further progress is needed on issues such as fundamental rights and freedoms. i would especially like to highlight freedom of expression. we have witnessed a large number of cases brought against writers and journalists, and although there have been some positive developments, such as the recent liberation from prison of four journalists, the high number of cases against writers and journalists raises serious concerns, which need to be addressed. let me now turn to the one unresolved issue which has a direct bearing on both the negotiations and, more widely, on eu-turkey relations. the council notes with deep regret that turkey – despite our repeated calls – has so far failed to fulfil its obligation under the additional protocol to the association agreement. the eu position on this has not changed, and in the absence of progress in the full non-discriminatory implementation of the protocol, the eu will maintain its measures from 2006, which will continue to affect overall progress in the negotiations. we also continue to expect turkey to make progress towards normalising its relations with the republic of cyprus without further delay. i would like to recall that the council has regretted statements by turkey threatening to freeze relations with the eu presidency during the second half of this year. the rotating presidency is a fundamental institutional feature of the eu provided for in the eu treaty and must be fully respected – a position which i know is also included in your resolution. in conclusion, the aim of the presidency is to do our utmost to facilitate progress in the enlargement negotiations, to promote political and economic reform in turkey and to strengthen the relationship between the eu and turkey. this is a task that we can only realise with the support and cooperation of the member states, the commission, and not least this parliament. let me also, on behalf of the danish presidency and the member states, thank this parliament, and in particular your rapporteur ria oomen-ruijten, for your work on this issue. your continued commitment to enlargement is vital to its success, as is your particular role in promoting popular support in the eu for this cause. the resolution on turkey and its endorsement in the plenary is indeed a forceful political and strategic message. i also believe that, in contacts with fellow parliamentarians from the turkish parliament, this house will be able to make an important and much-appreciated contribution to enhancing understanding of the eu, the values that we share and the way we work.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the parliament, and in particular, and with special appreciation, mrs oomen-ruijten for her good and balanced report on turkey. this debate and your resolution come at an important time for european union-turkey relations, and the draft resolution underlines a number of issues of great importance for the commission. last friday the high representative and vice-president of the commission cathy ashton and i met ministers davutoğlu and bağış and we had a very positive and open political dialogue. once again, i realised that we have much more in common at strategic level than there are differences. we discussed our ever closer foreign-policy dialogue and progress related to the political criteria and agreed in particular to work concretely and constructively to make the positive agenda a reality. the positive agenda is there to provide a realistic and feasible way of injecting new life into eu-turkey relations in general, and into the accession process in particular, and i wish to thank you for your support as expressed in the resolution we are discussing today. let me emphasise once again that this agenda exists to complement and not to replace the accession process. the positive agenda means renewed efforts in a number of key areas, including support for political reforms in turkey, such as the alignment with our acquis, a closer cooperation on visas and migration and a closer dialogue on foreign policy. all are highlighted in your resolution. i am happy to tell you that since the member states endorsed the positive agenda last december we have made very good progress in putting it into practice. the commission and turkey have agreed to work on eight chapters, including the chapters on company law, on the information society and the media, on the judiciary and fundamental rights and on justice, freedom and security. we have also agreed to work on bringing the relevant turkish legislation closer into line with the eu acquis. working groups will be set up for each chapter in may/june. the commission services will use kick-off meetings to update the turkish authorities on all developments regarding the acquis. and we will of course involve stakeholders, as appropriate, at further stages of the process. work continues also in other areas of the positive agenda. as regards energy for instance, turkey and the commission have agreed to set up a joint working group, which will develop a road map by may to identify concrete actions for intensified cooperation. turning now briefly to some recent developments in turkey which are also reflected in the resolution: i have welcomed the overall consensus on the need for a new constitution – which emerged after the general elections last june. the specific work launched by the turkish parliament to bring this process forward, including constructive collaboration between the four main political parties, has started. obviously, the real test will come with the first discussions on the substance. consensus through a democratic, participatory process with the broadest possible consultation is essential if this new constitution is to serve all turkish citizens. let me in this context also refer explicitly to the conclusions of the most recent meeting of the reform monitoring group, held in istanbul on 16 march. these conclusions list a large number of political reforms already underway or planned for the near future by the turkish government. i would like to single out the intention to table a fourth judicial reform package which envisages further reforms in the area of freedom of expression and the media. we hope that his package will address the outstanding core concern as regards freedom of expression and the right to a fair trial. these issues are rightly highlighted as persistent concerns in the resolution you intend to adopt later. we hope that our cooperation with turkey on these issues, notably as part of the positive agenda, will bring badly needed improvements in legislation and practice. we will report in the 2012 progress reports on developments in trials and in investigations of alleged criminal networks, as we have done over the past years and as expressly requested in your resolution. let me in closing take this opportunity to raise the concerns increasingly being voiced by civil society in turkey as regards recent developments relating to freedom of expression. freedom of expression is intimately linked to political debate in a country, and thus to the quality and maturity of a democracy. in a mature democracy, the majority respects and protects the views of minorities and their rights. in a mature democracy, dissenting voices are not ridiculed or pushed into self-censorship, but valued for their contribution to the democratic fabric of society. in the words of voltaire: we can disapprove of what someone says, but we need to defend to the death his or her right to say it. if this right is not defended, democracy inevitably withers. the resolution of this house gives a fair assessment of the important challenges that turkey is taking on in the area of the judiciary and fundamental rights. only a mature domestic political debate, with full respect for dissenting voices, will ensure that these reforms deliver the democratic standards and practices the citizens of turkey expect. expect and deserve.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it was approved by a large majority in committee and that is a good sign. it has done a good job, starting from a good draft by our colleague ria oomen-ruijten, and i think that is all very positive. it is a contribution by parliament to the improvement and promotion of the relationship between the european union and turkey. however, this should not be taken as an indication that it is taking place in a context in which there has been no substantial progress in the negotiation process for turkey's accession to the european union, and this in a situation of great changes in the mediterranean and of great changes in the middle east. in this context, the development of the positive programme proposed by commissioner füle, not as a substitute for the negotiating process but as a means of boosting and improving bilateral relations, deserves our most resolute support. in short, this report has a positive characteristic of supporting the improvement of the situation, but it also fulfils our obligation to point out those negative aspects that occur, both in relation to the country and in its situation. it stressed the positive programme, called for new chapters in the negotiations to be opened, remained firm on the defence of freedom of expression and media pluralism, and expressed concern at the misuse of anti-terrorism legislation and the detention of journalists, politicians and activists. i believe that it can contribute to making the next period a positive one for relations between the union and turkey. i would like to end by congratulating the rapporteur, because i think she has done a good job.
madam president, i would like to make three points on turkey's accession to the european union. firstly, its visa policy for third country nationals. two years ago i expressed my surprise in this parliament that turkey did not bring this policy closer to that of the european union. the 2011 progress report prepared by the european commission indicates that turkey has recently concluded visa waiver agreements with sudan and yemen. according to my information, citizens of iran, libya, lebanon and syria do not need visas either. last week, a widely circulated spanish newspaper noted the following: 'the visa exemption for some countries and thousands of kilometres of land border make turkey the favourite corridor for the mafias.' turkey, in my view, must make a serious effort and gradually move closer to the union's visa policy. it's part of the collection. it must be aligned and not continue the current line, which is going the other way, away from the policy of the european union. what we need is a gradual alignment and i think the commission should follow this matter closely. secondly, i believe that the european union and turkey should strengthen their political dialogue. turkey has recently been drawing closer to the arab world, and it occupies a prominent place in a region which is very close to and very important for europe and which is undergoing major transformations. dialogue and cooperation between brussels and ankara will be very positive. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the set of reforms that turkey has undertaken and i hope that it will pursue them with determination and firmness, as called for in the report we shall be adopting tomorrow.
mr president, we have heard here some opinions about the violation of human rights and the lack of separation of powers. we have heard here some opinions also about the lack of freedom of expression in turkey. what is turkey doing about the separation of powers? what is turkey doing to use the constitutional drafting process as a chance for developing a moral and democratic identity, allowing for the full recognition of all ethnic groups including kurds, laz, gypsies, roma, alevis, syriacs, arabs, greeks, armenians, jews and others? what is turkey doing to consider a process of decentralisation and meaningful local government in order to meet the demands of the diverse segments of its population?
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, there are few asylum seekers permanently resettled in europe. my country, spain, has just begun the experience. the cases are, however, of urgent necessity. this is what the members have seen on the ground in their visits to the camps of iraqis of palestinian origin in syria, also in view of the news that has come to us from tunisia. another more institutional aspect is the balance of power between parliament and the council. our courageous rapporteur, rui tavares - there are many good parliamentarians but few of such tenacity as rui tavares - has fought for the european parliament to retain the new powers it gained after the adoption of the treaty of lisbon. i cannot forget the continuous work of the unhcr, without which this success would not have been possible either. the unhcr has made us all aware of the urgency of the report, above legal disquisitions, so that the funds can be used as soon as possible, now that they are so needed. and finally, thank you very much, commissioner. i hope we give you and your good heart the satisfaction of getting the asylum package through next month.
mr president, ever since the commission's communication in september 2009 launched the idea of establishing a resettlement fund for refugees, everything in europe has been in crisis. and that is why this success of institutional cooperation, which involves the initiative of the swedish presidency, culminated in the danish presidency, the work of the commission and, of course, the perseverance of the european parliament, which has led to this report by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs which i chair, is doubly worthy of being welcomed and celebrated. i want to welcome it, as i want to welcome the insistence of unhcr in drawing attention to the fact that the european union is a union of values and it sends a positive message, not only to the countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean, but also to those on the eastern, eurasian border of the european union, saying that we have a commitment to the protection of those people who seek refuge because they are persecuted in their countries of origin or have some other complementary protection status and who, however, cannot be welcomed in the first country of entry. this fund is designed to achieve that objective and, moreover, it does so by overcoming the legal quarrels and discussions which have lasted too long, concerning the procedure, the delegated acts, but also concerning the legal basis itself, and i am pleased to stress that the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has unanimously endorsed the recognition of this legal basis in article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which calls us to a principle of solidarity which we must give substance to. and that is why i am pleased to say that the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs not only voted almost unanimously in favour of this report, but also recognised, in its tribute to her memory and in its condolences for her loss, the contribution of mrs pasquetti, an official of the european commission, who died without seeing this work completed.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate mr rui tavares with all my heart. this debate is a step forward in increasing the union's humanitarian work and, in turn, providing greater international protection for refugees. we welcome the improvement in reception conditions, the implementation of asylum procedures and the promotion of good and effective practices for the international protection of human rights. given that the number of asylum applications submitted last year was 301 000, of which 59 465 were accepted, we need to rationalise resettlement measures in order to maximise the efficiency of the provision of benefits. five thousand resettled in europe is still very little in terms of solidarity. i was in shusha too. more member states need to be involved in resettlement actions and to this end we support providing additional financial support to those participating for the first time. in addition, additional financial assistance for the resettlement of persons from specific geographical regions and nationalities is necessary where it has been concluded that this is the most appropriate response to their special needs. i do not want to forget the urgency and the priority which must be given to all member states in supporting children and women belonging to a particular risk group, victims of psychological, physical and sexual violence and exploitation. one in five asylum seekers is under the age of 13. i congratulate you, mr president, on the interinstitutional agreement.
mr president, in a time of crisis it is clear that the expenditure of the institutions and, in particular, the administrative expenditure of the european parliament can be subject to public scrutiny. so i think that what our rapporteur, mr vaughan, has presented, in agreement with the bureau of this parliament, are very limited estimates of expenditure for 2013. i am one of those who think that taxpayers' money should always be watched and controlled. but we are all taxpayers and that money must be monitored in the same way in a european parliament as in a british parliament, a spanish regional parliament or any other european country. and i think we have made an effort to reduce our budget as much as possible. it is true that there are games that we have reduced. it's true that there are games we could cut. i'm going to set an example for the few of you here. we have more people in interpretation booths than members of this house right now. does that mean we have to go without interpretation? no, it's just that we need to continue to allocate resources better to needs. and right now, we don't need to have that many people. in any case, i know that mr vaughan and my colleague mr hohlmeier have dealt with this recently and i therefore believe that the proposal we have put forward is a very fortunate proposal. and finally, as regards the debate on a single seat, i believe that real debates should be held, not virtual debates. it is very well for the public to say that we want to limit ourselves to one seat and one place of work, but we must know exactly what the possibilities are for us under the treaty. and now our responsibility is to reject that amendment. (the speaker agrees to answer two questions put under the 'blue card' procedure in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue card question. i am glad that the portuguese member is asking me this question because it concerns a very sensitive subject, namely the right of each member to express himself and to be understood in his own language. mr ferreira, what is true - and you will agree with me - is that there is a misallocation of resources at the moment. as much as you want to tell me that this is being interpreted for many different television stations right now, the fact is that we are less than 20 members here and there are more than 60 interpreters. and i think that is something that mr vaughan has to fix; it is mentioned in his own report. i am also very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of taxation of capital.
blue card question. what is it? mr garriga, i think that questioning the issue of interpretation and interpretation costs does not make much sense. it does not make much sense because this house has provided itself with professional interpretation services, which are provided for in a community budget. and so to question the irresponsibility of some members who are not present - many times any of us are not present because we have to attend other meetings - and to put that excuse to the detriment of interpretation, which is a professional service, seems to me to be a lack of courtesy towards interpretation services. on the other hand, there are peoples who cannot speak their own languages in this house and that should also be provided for.
answer to a blue card question. mrs miranda, i will use the interpretation services to reply to you with a spanish phrase: don't pick the radish by the leaves. what i mean is that there is no proper allocation of interpretation resources. i set an example. if you were a member of the committee on budgets you would know exactly the level of debate we have in the committee on budgets, where we feel that, at the moment, the interpretation resources are not well allocated to the needs of the moment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the european social model we boast about is not only based on our pension, education and health systems, but also on a way of understanding the balance between employer and employee within companies. the labour reform that the spanish government has approved, without dialogue and without consensus, breaks with that social model and takes us away from the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, both in terms of job creation and the quality of employment. labour reform alone does not create jobs; economic growth does. what a labour law does is define the conditions under which workers enter enter enterprises, under which conditions they stay in enterprises and under which conditions they leave enterprises. and with this reform, thanks to which 80% of workers will be unprotected because they will not be subject to collective agreements, workers may be dismissed because of a decrease in the income of companies or their hours may be unilaterally changed, what is clear is that workers will enter the labour market with more precariousness, stay in it with more fear and leave it with less compensation. that is why this reform, which is an attack on the european social model and which is committed to the competitiveness of the spanish economy only in relation to the conditions of workers, deserves a general strike like the one called for tomorrow in spain in defence of this social model.
mr. president, my country will be on general strike tomorrow in protest against the social aggression of the labor reform imposed and not negotiated by the government. it is an attack on unemployed workers because it will not create jobs and will facilitate dismissals, an attack on young workers whom it condemns to precariousness, an attack on women workers because it prevents family and professional reconciliation by allowing employers to unilaterally change working hours and by ending breastfeeding leave. in short, the labour reform is an attack on the european social acquis which should concern the whole of europe and this parliament. we therefore fully understand the reasons why spanish workers, women and young people are calling for a general strike tomorrow.
mr president, i would like to express my solidarity with the workers and trade union representatives in spain who are about to embark on a general strike to fight precisely against the injustice of a labour reform which is not only intended to curtail the fundamental rights of workers but also radically affects what has become the social dialogue, the social concertation, which has been defended precisely by the european union as one of the formulas, the instruments for further democratization of social and labour relations. i would therefore like to express my support and greetings to these workers in their struggle against this injustice.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the help of the european union, food banks have been doing a social work, which is recognized and worth mentioning, and which should continue in the future and have the undisputed support of this parliament. one of the fundamental ideas that inspire the construction of europe is precisely solidarity and social and territorial cohesion. it is therefore essential that a game like this is played to achieve this. the current economic crisis is affecting european citizens. there are 80 million people below the poverty line and 43 million people who think twice before including protein in their diet twice a week. we need a cohesion effort through the budget of the european union, including also in that effort the departure of the common agricultural policy. ladies and gentlemen, we must, as members of parliament, push forward with all the initiatives to continue to implement a food aid programme from 2014 and throughout the next financial perspective period. the european parliament must try to reach an agreement with the council and avoid any selfishness in favour of european citizenship.
mr president, i reiterate the need to reach a comprehensive agreement for the future which will ensure the survival of the most deprived people in the union. we talk about the vulnerable, the excluded, the poor. the data we have - 13 million people in poverty in 19 member states, 30 million undernourished or 43 million at risk of food poverty - show the need to work together to ensure that this programme is maintained beyond 2013. we must take advantage of the debate on the multiannual financial framework and the debate on the reform of the cap to secure food aid and to remove legal obstacles. the member states are going through a difficult period, but for that very reason it is now that we must do more to protect those who are suffering the most from the crisis: the children, the sick, the unemployed, the elderly and, in general, the 80 million people who are currently living below the poverty line. the commission's right of initiative is vital and fundamental. in parliament, mr president, there is no disagreement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we must go to the root of this problem, because it is the current neoliberal economic model, applied by many of the member states with strategies based on budgetary adjustments, but without active policies to generate growth and stimulate employment, coupled with an imbalance between the public and the private sector, which has resulted in many of our citizens, who are not responsible for the crisis, being plunged into a spiral of hunger, poverty and social exclusion. and the data are not optimistic: more than 113 million european citizens are at risk of falling into poverty or social exclusion. solidarity and cohesion, which are basic european principles, require that these policies be corrected by regulating economic relations, so as not to widen social differences any further and to put an end to imbalances. the union must stand with the citizens, with the citizens who are suffering the most, and provide effective responses if there is to be a way out of this crisis. only then will the european institutions recover the lost credit. that is why it is necessary to continue this food distribution programme.
mr president, commissioner, the moral high ground of a society is not measured primarily by its gross domestic product. it is measured by the way it provides education for its children, by the way it cares for the health of all its members but, above all, by the way it protects and shelters its most disadvantaged citizens. and this is a program that might seem small, but it's not. because the moral diagnosis we have of the european union depends on this programme. the european union is not just an economic project. it is a project of cooperation and solidarity; solidarity with those who need it most. when 43 million european citizens need us, the decision cannot be dependent on the legal basis we must apply. we can't waste time debating the procedure. i therefore support the commission in defending the moral high ground of the european project.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mrs adina-ioana vălean, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the report on eu citizenship 2010: removing obstacles to the rights of eu citizens (2011/2182 (ini)) (a7-0047/2012).
mr president, the european citizen is in a delicate state of health today. it's being attacked simultaneously by some viruses that we thought were definitely extinct. what virus are we talking about? a great distance between what the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights say and what is actually happening; a powerful rise in national egotism and a shameful retreat in freedom of movement. this is the diagnosis - a wrong diagnosis - and we need to put in place the right therapy, the commission and parliament together. we must take advantage of the launch of the citizens' legislative initiative from 1 april and we must take advantage of next year, which is the european year of citizenship. we cannot allow the rights of citizens which are recognised in our fundamental texts to continue to be ignored or attacked.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
madam president, i want it to be noted in the minutes of this sitting, on behalf of the 23 spanish members of the socialist group, that we are going to take part in this vote because parliamentary representation obliges us to do so, but that we are in solidarity with the millions of workers who are currently on strike in spain, that we share their reasons, because the labour reform carried out in spain is an attack on individual and collective rights, weakens collective bargaining and social dialogue and goes against the european social charter and our charter of fundamental rights. ♪ i'm not a girl ♪
madam president, i shall read the text of the oral amendment which would replace this amendment no 14 in english: 'strongly condemns the recent attacks against european offices of the turkish newspapers and calls for coordinated investigation into these attacks'.
madam president, i was very interested in the debate on turkey. it is a great country, certainly admirable, but it must nevertheless take democratic steps, and one of the democratic steps is to avoid the military occupation of cyprus. yesterday, one of our colleagues was referring to the division of nicosia. i was there and, as a former mayor of oviedo, an old european capital, i felt the same pain that berlin did to me years ago. it cannot be that a foreign power occupies the soil of a sovereign country. and what i say for cyprus i also say for my country, gibraltar, which is spanish and should not be occupied, and the spanish people will never forget that situation.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this taylor report on the rights of air passengers because it calls for greater legal certainty for them in the interpretation and application of european union rules. air travel has increased greatly in europe without any increase in information policy and there are still major shortcomings in the respect of passenger rights. the most important right of passengers is the services provided as provided for in the contractual obligation represented by the sale of the ticket. knowing your rights is essential to ensuring that you can exercise them. i am voting in favour because i support the idea that people with reduced mobility should have greater access and be aware of their rights. i support that passengers' rights should be communicated in the language used during ticket booking throughout the key stages of the journey. it is important to ensure the rights of passengers with children, so that they can board easily with seats and board with priority and also disembark first. the triple option for passengers to choose between reimbursement, re-routing or re-booking in the event of a disruption to their journey must be guaranteed as a fundamental right, as this report supports.
in writing. - the history of europe is a history of emigration. for centuries millions of europeans have left in search of refuge, better living conditions or hope. many left within europe, but many more left for other continents. what country has not had moments of great difficulty in its history when many of its citizens had to seek refuge beyond its borders? people fleeing wars, democrats persecuted by fascist regimes. there are also economic migrants in ireland, poland, galicia, italy... the creation of a european refugee fund that effectively helps the integration of people in extremely vulnerable situations is therefore a moral imperative for europe. that is why i support this report. but you have to go much further. every day, children are arrested for being illegal immigrants. this is unfortunately a global practice in eu countries such as malta, greece, italy and hungary. children who are held alone in foster care or prisons as young as eight. it is urgent that the commission, parliament and the council take action to bring this horrendous violation of human rights to an end.
in writing. - i'm in. - what? this report recognizes the need for the european parliament to have a single seat, as has already been expressed by various political groups such as the one i represent. the purpose of the single seat is not only an economic necessity but also the image we want to offer to the citizens. some effective and democratic european institutions also require efficient and responsible management. and for that we must set an example, especially now in the context of the economic crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary impact of the budget is not underestimated. i would also like to highlight point 7, which is the subject of an information campaign for the next elections in 2014. it is vital to deepen communication with citizens, also with a clear definition of objectives and by opening the doors of the institutions to everyone.
in writing. - i abstained on amendment no 3 because, although i agree with the spirit of the amendment, it has anti-european connotations which i do not share.
in writing. − i am in favour of promoting democratic values, freedom and peaceful values and acting in a united manner in times of necessity in belarus. european citizens cannot accept the deteriorating situation regarding human rights because these are also european values. i hope that this resolution will make the belarusian authorities change their mind and bring the country back onto the path of democratic transition.
in writing. − being from the eu is one way of being a world citizen. it is the acceptance of some values that define the way we are, the way we behave, the way we want the world to be. serbia comes from a very difficult past and, like many other european countries, has passed through the horrors of war, but it is making a great effort to work for a better future. i welcome the considerable progress made by serbia towards the reform of democratisation and i agree that accession negotiations should be opened with serbia as soon as possible.
in writing. - on behalf of the spanish delegation to the epp group, we wish to state that the meaning of our vote on the resolution on the process of european integration in kosovo is due to the fact that this resolution treats kosovo as if it were an ordinary independent state, recognised by the international community, and does not take into account that the status of this territory remains controversial. the majority of countries have not recognised it, including five member states of the european union, including spain.
in writing. - none of the votes of the spanish socialist delegation can be interpreted as a recognition of the unilateral declaration of independence of kosovo. we are firmly committed to the european perspective of the western balkans which we consider to be key to stability, peace and the reform process in the region. we stand for a constructive position that was demonstrated by the successful holding of the high level summit in sarajevo in 2010. this position is not only the most consistent with the international community's commitment to multiethnic states in the western balkans and with international law (in the absence of an agreement between the parties or a new security council resolution), but far from being an obstacle, it has proved to be key to stimulating serbia's european commitment, progress in the belgrade-pristina dialogue and stability in the region. we therefore regret that, for another year, the recognition of kosovo is again contaminating a resolution which would be more effective if it focused on the problems of the people and on what the commission's communication says about the economic situation, corruption, organised crime, integration or displaced persons.
in writing. − today parliament sends a strong signal to kosovo: we support your independence and we hope that someday you will be part of the eu. four years after its democratic declaration of independence, 85 countries in the world have recognised kosovo as an independent country. of these countries, 22 belong to the eu but five still refuse to recognise it. one of these is spain. spain, one of the biggest member states shows a democratic deficit in not recognising this reality. i hope that the eu forces spain to address this situation in the coming months and years. internal affairs should not be used to oppose the freedom of the kosovar people to decide their own future.
in writing. − protection of and respect for minorities is one of the best signs with which to assess the quality of democracy. respect for national minorities should be a cornerstone of eu foreign policy when fostering democracy in the world and especially when dealing with states like turkey that want to join the eu. turkey should never join the eu unless it carefully respects minority rights. there are about 14 million kurds in turkey. the movement for more cultural rights and political autonomy for kurdistan is currently being brutally repressed by the turkish government. ankara misuses the penal code to criminalise peaceful kurdish journalists, politicians, activists and demonstrators. dozens of kurdish mps are in jail. this is simply unacceptable. the pkk must certainly stop using violence just as much as the turkish state. the kurdish conflict will only be addressed politically and, therefore, both sides need to negotiate. in this negotiation, it is unavoidable that the kurds, sooner or later, will have to be recognised in the constitution. the report does not recognise the rights of the kurdish minority nor the political nature of the conflict. as a democrat, i had to vote against it.
in writing. − i welcome very dearly the fact that the eu is taking steps forward to integrate in the medium term montenegro. i think that, beyond the internal problems that the country still suffers in terms of corruption and political accountability, the signal is really positive. furthermore, i want to thank the eu for its respect for the democratic decision that the people of montenegro took in 2006 in order to gain independence. all member state countries should take this as an example to follow.
in writing. - i abstained on amendment no 1 because, although i am in favour of eib investments in turkey, i want to draw attention to the turkish-cypriot conflict.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the vălean report on eu citizenship 2010 as it accords access to information (in particular, infringement files), speaks clearly about roma (including criticism of the actions taken by france), consumers’ rights, social rights and inclusion, and its justified criticism of member states failures to give effect even to basic eu rights, such as freedom of movement and residence, including its calling for an end to derogations on romanians and bulgarians. i also supported it because the amendment was accepted which calls on member states to ensure freedom of movement for all eu citizens and their families, without discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation or nationality, and to take steps needed to abolish policy and/or administrative obstacles to this, and also calls on the commission to take action to ensure compliance with eu law in this respect, on the basis of the principles of mutual recognition, equality, non-discrimination, dignity and respect for private and family life.
in writing. − the eu citizenship report 2010 outlines concrete measures that the commission is taking to ensure that eu citizens are able to exercise their rights to the full in eu member states. it includes 25 of the most important obstacles that our citizens face while exercising their rights in their country of residence or across borders and puts forward solutions for overcoming them. more than 300 relevant petitions received were analysed. issues related to free movement account for approximately 25 % of the total number of petitions received. freedom of movement is one of the fundamental rights of eu citizens recognised under the treaties. the report also summarises that the greatest obstacles to exercising active union citizenship are a lack of awareness by individuals of their rights as eu citizens and a lack of clearly structured, widely publicised information explaining their rights. for all these reason, i will vote in favour of this report as it is our duty to improve this situation, which is crucial for our eu citizens.
mr president, one principle which i believe we must defend inside and outside the european union is the principle of legal certainty. one criterion we must be able to face and combat both inside and outside the european union is arbitrariness. when a decision is based on legal uncertainty and arbitrariness, we are talking about an illegitimate action affecting thousands of small shareholders and, above all, setting a bad precedent for many european investments in the world. that is why we say that this debate is necessary and indispensable, but not only with spain in mind - a spanish company - but as a future reference point for many european investments outside our borders.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i think we should welcome this decision to hold a debate and adopt a resolution. however, given that the high representative will not be present in the house tomorrow, as she has a commitment with the nato defence ministers, i think it would be appropriate to change the agenda and we could hear her, because she is due to make a statement on this.
madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, mr howitt's report is a human rights report which includes political, social and economic rights. i would therefore like to thank you very particularly, mrs ashton, for the statement you made before we started the debate on this report on the situation at repsol. you have said as much in as short a time as you could: a wrong decision; a threat to investment and the future of that country; the need to honour the commitments made; the steps you have taken to put this matter on the agenda of the foreign ministers' council, and the suspension of the meeting of the european union-argentina joint commission, apart from considering possible measures. as regards mr howitt's report, madam president, i think it is a generally reasonable report, but there are still some unresolved issues, such as the sending of the fact-finding mission to gaza - which is a request that our group obviously cannot accept, as the rapporteur knows very well - and also mr howitt's position on colombia, which is simply delusional. this amendment was already rejected in the vote in the committee on foreign affairs and, for us, at this time when we are awaiting ratification of the peru-colombia multilateral trade agreement, it is not acceptable. i would like to emphasize, madam president, mrs ashton, a fundamental element of our human rights policy to which the european parliament has an unwavering and unquestionable commitment: the appointment of the eu special representative for human rights. the european parliament will be taking a decision on this matter in a resolution and we would like the selection procedure for this person, madam high representative, to be objective so that the appointment can really be made by someone who has the merits and the capacity to perform this high function at the level that she undoubtedly deserves.
madam president, first of all, i would like to thank you, mrs ashton, for your words on the arbitrary and illegal expropriation of the repsol company in argentina. it is a measure contrary to international law and the principle of legal certainty which affects all europeans. i welcome your reaction and again i appreciate your words, mrs ashton. i am now referring to the howitt report. articles 3 and 21 of the treaty on european union make it very clear that human rights are of paramount importance in the european union's external relations. this is because the rule of law, human rights, are constitutive parts - so to speak - of this european union and its member states, but also because, in today's world, the international community as a whole considers human rights to be universal and indivisible, whose defence can no longer be hindered by the old principle of non-interference in internal affairs. the report we are voting on tomorrow shows the importance which the european parliament attaches to human rights, as is clearly visible, for example, to me, in the sakharov prize which we created in this parliament years ago, and also, clearly visible in the support we give to the appointment, to the creation of the figure of a special representative of the eu for human rights. respect for human rights, ladies and gentlemen, is a very topical issue. there is such a novel institution, with the responsibility to protect, linked to human rights, and there are the changes and the arab revolutions that broke out last year, one of whose most important objectives has been the rescue of the dignity of the human being and the respect of human rights. we must all strive - parliament, the commission, the council - to ensure, mrs ashton, that these political processes consolidate the noble aspirations for which they were opened, and that these aspirations of freedom, pluralism, tolerance and respect for minorities are not jeopardised.
madam president, with the same forcefulness with which mrs ashton has spoken about the situation of a private company whose nationalization in the argentine republic has just been announced - and which should not be confused with a state interest - the high representative should take up the defence of human rights in relation to the fifteen kurdish people who are currently on a hunger strike here in strasbourg, in relation to the situation in western sahara, in relation to the situation in gaza and the occupied territories and in relation to so many other situations in which we should really feel ashamed as europeans and europeans. but above all on a matter which mr howitt points out in his excellent report, namely the involvement of civil society and the mechanisms for participation in trade agreement negotiations in relation to the right to free, prior and informed consultation, for example, of indigenous peoples.
mr president, baroness ashton, the tragedy in mali is the chronicle of a death foretold. a year ago i had the honour of being the head of the european union's electoral mission to the elections in niger, and the nigerian authorities - who knew very well what they were talking about - and the few ambassadors stationed in that country warned european governments of the terrible consequences for the sahel countries as a whole of the return of the tuaregs who were part of the mercenaries of gaddafi's army. armed tuaregs who would join, above all, their co-religionists in those countries and also aqim forces and also warned about aqim infiltration among the insurgents in libya. i am very pleased, mrs ashton, with the measures you have announced for all the sahel countries, but i would simply say that these are measures which must be taken urgently, quickly, because otherwise we are going to have a very pressing problem and perhaps very soon most of these countries will be in the hands of the fundamentalist forces of aqim, and all of this at the doorstep of europe. and i would not like to end without a reminder to all the people who are currently being held by aqim and i urge you to put all possible means to their early release.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, we are all absolutely appalled by the horrendous levels of violence that have been witnessed in syria. regime forces have bombarded cities with no regard for civilians. violence has not spared children. we all want, above everything, the violence and killings to stop, and everyone is extremely worried by the potential for further militarisation and escalation of the conflict. the increased violence that we saw leading up to the ceasefire deadline of 12 april was totally unacceptable, and reports about shelling in the city of homs and civilians killed in hama and deraa are extremely disturbing. violence has abated, but that is not enough. once again, i urge in the strongest possible terms that the cessation of violence be for real, and that kofi annan’s plan be implemented immediately and in its entirety. the honourable members will know how fragile and unstable the situation remains. the violence in homs, hana and aleppo are tragic reminders of this. the house will have seen that the un security council adopted unanimously – and i emphasise that unanimity – on saturday a resolution approving the immediate deployment of an advance team of up to 30 military observers to syria to begin reporting on the implementation of a full cessation of armed violence. they left for syria on sunday and are now on the ground starting their work. it is an important development for the implementation of the un and league of arab states special envoy kofi annan’s six-point plan. together with our eu representatives at the un security council, to whom i pay tribute for their work and for their engagement, and all our member states, we have spared no effort to try and ensure that the international community speaks with one voice. i and my services have engaged in particular with russia and china – last week on the margins of the g8 meeting in washington – to seek their support and a change in their position. the security council resolution presents, finally, a unified call from the international community to the regime, and i quote: ‘the urgent, comprehensive and immediate implementation by the syrian government of all the elements of the envoy’s six-point proposal in their entirety’. this is not a matter of choice. the six-point plan is not optional. the government has to implement it fully. troops and heavy weapons have to be withdrawn from population centres, peaceful demonstrations and freedom of association must be respected, and the provision of humanitarian assistance to all areas affected by the fighting must be ensured. only through a credible and sustained halt to violence will kofi annan be able to develop a peaceful, inclusive and syrian-led democratic transition that responds to the legitimate aspirations of all syrians. we are watching very closely the situation on the ground. we have called on all parties to comply with his plan. given the government’s responsibility and record of broken promises and unfulfilled commitments, this resolution is an opportunity for the regime to change course and cooperate fully. unanimous action is what we have been calling for from the beginning of this crisis, and now it is of utmost importance that the members of the security council continue to support kofi annan in his efforts and ensure that a fully-fledged observation mission in syria is operationalised without delay. china and russia must continue to play a key role in bringing a solution to the conflict, using all their influence to ensure the security council resolution is fully implemented. i have, on a number of occasions, personally expressed my support to special envoy annan and told him and the secretary general of the un, ban ki-moon, with whom i met yesterday, that the eu and the member states stand ready to provide any required support to the observation mission. in our cooperation with the league of arab states, we have already helped build the league of arab states situation room to improve communications, and we are training them to develop their analysis and ability to respond to crisis situations. last week i convened the crisis platform again to bring together all the services of the eeas and the commission, under the chairmanship of secretary-general pierre vimont. we are putting all our instruments together, coordinating closely with kristalina georgieva and her work and humanitarian aid and support, and reaching out to all the countries neighbouring syria, both through ambassadors in brussels and through the authorities on the ground. we are working closely with all the member states to try and ensure an effective and coordinated eu response. we have suspended all types of cooperation, including bilateral cooperation, and syria’s participation in regional programmes. the european investment bank, with which we work closely, has suspended all its loan operations and technical assistance to syria. we have nevertheless maintained aid that benefits the syrian population, students, human rights defenders and the opposition. those programmes with syrian students and universities will continue. we are supporting efforts to deliver shelter, medical supplies, food and whatever is needed. we have put together a contribution of eur 29 million in humanitarian aid to syria and the neighbouring countries affected. support to the neighbouring countries is also essential. i discussed these issues when i was in turkey over the weekend with foreign minister davutoglu, who also joined the g8 foreign ministers by video link. the humanitarian and security situation on the turkish border is critical, and the turkish response has been excellent, with fast and professional support to the 25 000 refugees in its territory. i have offered our assistance on a number of occasions to foreign minister davutoglu and did so again this weekend. i remain in close contact with him and his services for whatever is needed. we are also working closely with jordan and lebanon and are ready to mobilise our instruments to respond to their requests. i have started to discuss the details of that support with the foreign minister of jordan. it is important that we continue to act as fast as we can, liaising closely with local ministries. many of the displaced populations in neighbouring countries live not in camps but with families. that is why we are looking into broader and wider support, including assistance to host families and support to the regions and populations most directly affected by the inflow of syrian citizens, particularly in the fields of health and education. to do this, together with commissioner füle i have proposed as a matter of urgency a commission special measure to reserve eur 23 million for funds to support specifically syrian civil society, as well as refugees and affected populations in neighbouring countries. besides our assistance, i want to make it clear that we are ready to continue to impose sanctions and restrictive measures for as long as the repression continues. the last round of sanctions was approved at the foreign affairs council of 23 march, and we are working on a new set of sanctions and restrictive measures. today, my team is in paris taking a leading role in the meeting of the working group on sanctions created at the istanbul meeting. it is also important that our delegation remains open in damascus for as long as the security situation permits. we need to have eyes and ears on the ground and to be close to the syrian population. the syrian people have asked us not to leave. we are hosting diplomats from member states that have decided to suspend the activities of their own embassies. spain, italy, belgium and the netherlands now have diplomats within the eu delegation in damascus. i want to say a word about engagement with syrian opposition groups, which is a critical issue in which i believe the european parliament has an important role to play. i thank parliament for its efforts in reaching out to opposition groups. our main objective remains to encourage all groups to put aside their differences, work together towards stronger coordination and agree on a way forward for an orderly transition that is both inclusive and democratic. they need to build a common vision for the future of syria, where all syrians from all backgrounds and affiliations are free and equal. i have instructed the external action service to continue its meetings with opposition groups and to reach out to minority groups to encourage them in this approach. the future of syria belongs to the syrian people. their lives, their rights and their aspirations must be respected. we need to do as much as we possibly can, but it is now time for president assad to match his words with deeds.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, a triple game is being played at the moment on the syrian table: determining the influence between iran and saudi arabia, the role that will be given to egypt in the context of the arab spring and the vacuum that is being left by the election campaign in the united states, which wants to be occupied by china and russia. the apparent good news is the unanimous adoption of this resolution in the united nations security council. but here, mr president, the important thing is that the vote on this resolution be consistent with the attitude of these countries towards the situation created in syria. the diplomatic route is a slow route that is taking time to produce results and with it assad is winning time to continue repressing the population. and the fact is that, even if we have to support, mrs ashton, kofi annan's plan, we are sending a double message to the international community. on the one hand, mr assad is still in power, buying time - he knows that with the veto of russia and china he can massacre the population with impunity - and on the other hand, we are sending a message to the dissidents that there are no short-term solutions. it is therefore important, mr president, that we take all these factors into account; the action being taken by the european union in terms of humanitarian aid, the mobilisation of funds to which you referred with mrs georgieva and the continuing support for the deployment of this mission is very commendable; but as a diplomat from my country has said - and i think he is right - on the basis of the kofi annan plan, the solution to the conflict must unfortunately start with assad, but it must also end with his departure.
mr president, next 26 april marks the 75th anniversary of the bombing of guernica during the spanish civil war. the nazi air force then tried techniques of mass aggression against the civilian population, perfected in world war ii. franco, on the other hand, attacked basque national institutions and identity, one of his objectives during the dictatorship. guernica is now a symbol of peace in the world, enhanced by the famous painting by picasso, which should be exhibited in euskadi. in 1977, the german state apologized to the basque people for their participation in this massacre. today in spain, right-wing revisionist historians deny the truth and many politicians quietly acknowledge that francoist impunity was the key to the success of the spanish transition to democracy. perhaps that's why the only magistrate who has tried to investigate the dictator's crimes has been thrown out of the judicial career. that's why i'm taking this 75th anniversary to call for justice, reparation and remembrance for the victims. 75 years later, it is imperative to settle this account with the lives, dignity and freedoms that the francoists took by force from millions of people.
mr president, yesterday a new chapter was written in the long history of nationalisations. argentina decided to nationalise ypf, an oil company and the property of repsol. this unilateral move will make the government of argentina the biggest stakeholder in the company with a 51% participation and will leave repsol with only 6% instead of the 57% it has now. this attack against the rule of law and private property creates juridical insecurity and signifies a loss of confidence for international investors in argentina. this is an action that brings argentina closer to cuba and venezuela than to successful and open brazil. therefore i ask this chamber, the commission and the council, to support repsol and all other european investments in argentina against this situation, to put trade negotiations temporarily on hold and to put in place measures and strong mechanisms to ensure that it is not repeated in the future.
mr president, the preservation of biodiversity is one of the objectives of the european union, which unfortunately is not always met with the necessary effectiveness. this is the case in galicia, where 16 000 hectares have burned this year, where fires have destroyed areas of incalculable economic value, seven of which are included in the natura network. a month ago, this was the natural setting of the eume fragas, one of europe's main atlantic forests, and today this is the desolate setting of this forest. we therefore call on the european commission to promote common preventive policies against fires, territorial policies to prevent land being abandoned, and to implement the master plans to protect and conserve these ecosystems. we want to leave a green country for the future.
the first item on the agenda is the report by mr milan cabrnoch, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the amendment of regulation (ec) no 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems and of regulation (ec) no 987/2009 laying down detailed rules for the application of regulation (ec) no 883/2004 (com (2010) 0794 - c7-0005/2011 - 2010/0380 (cod)) (a7-0043/2012).
member of the commission. − mr president, the regulations that are the subject of today’s discussions lay down some specific measures for the coordination of national social security systems. they make practical arrangements to protect the social security benefits of eu citizens who move across borders. these practical arrangements can only be effective if they reflect changes in the legal and social situation. since the modernised social security coordination regulations were applied in 2010, we have discovered that changes in national legislation and in working practices create a need for clarification of the text and for some small gaps to be closed. the proposal which the parliament is discussing today takes account of recent developments and concepts which were not developed in detail in the regulations. even though the proposal is technical in nature, it has a direct, practical impact on people who rely on the measures adopted at european level when they make use of the right to free movement. as this house’s recent resolution on the 2010 european citizens’ report made clear, the right to freedom of movement and residence needs to be accompanied by specific measures to give substance to this fundamental freedom. this holds true in particular for the two most sensitive issues in the proposal: the introduction of the home base principle for air crew members, and the provision for unemployment benefits for unemployed self-employed persons who return to their state of residence in which no insurance system exists. i can assure you that the compromise reached on these technical issues is in line with the spirit of the regulation, which coordinates and seeks to protect workers’ rights. it clarifies the rights of citizens and it assists institutions when they apply these legal texts. mr cabrnoch’s report makes the importance of adopting the file at first reading and approving the outcome of last year’s negotiations very clear, and i am grateful to him for keeping the compromise in mind when the amendments were drafted. the commission fully supports the amendments and wishes to thank the rapporteur for helping to foster sound cooperation between our institutions on this matter.
i should like to begin by congratulating the commissioner, the commission services and the council, and my colleague, mr cabrnoch, on the excellent work which has enabled us to find a way out of the debate on this updating of the regulation and to be able to do so at first reading and therefore to have the benefits immediately available. i would like to remind you, as other members have already said, that this is an annual exercise and that this time there are two important developments: the new article 65, which grants unemployment benefits to crossborder workers, whereas they did not have them until now, and we will review this in two years' time, even to improve it; and, above all, the new reference in article 11 to the 'base' criterion, which gives legal certainty to aircrew and clearly indicates the applicable legislation, with the concept of 'base' (home) as the basis, something which already exists in the regulation. i would like to take this opportunity in the last few seconds to say and remind colleagues and the public that, at a time when europe is so often put on the spot, we have today a clear example of how europe can benefit and improve the lives of millions of workers who, thanks to these systems of social security coordination, reach retirement age or unemployment, perfectly covered by cooperation between european states, and because there is a european union and because there is a european social model, a european social model which, contrary to what someone in the council has said, is alive and must be improved every day, because that is what people are asking for and that is what we are demonstrating in this parliament today that it is possible to do.
member of the commission. − mr president, i believe the proposal discussed today builds on the existing legislation with a view to guaranteeing eu citizens an entitlement to social security benefits when they move between member states. cross-border mobility indeed raises questions, and we have to find practical answers and solutions in a constructive atmosphere of this kind. i believe the various references to other dossiers such as, for example, the posting of workers, were also relevant and very helpful, and i listened very carefully to what was said about the impact of social housing and homelessness, because this is also an important aspect of our work in the fight against poverty. but the proposal that was discussed today makes provision for technical arrangements for effective social security coordination and does only what is necessary to make effective coordination a reality for citizens in their day-to-day lives. the commission welcomes the agreement between the council and parliament and looks forward to the adoption of the proposal at first reading.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
member of the commission. − very briefly, of course it is very important to ensure, under the existing arrangements, the free movement of workers and to fight undeclared work and other forms of abuse. however – and i should also highlight this in my reply – it is also very important to make efforts to create jobs and fight poverty at home. in romania and bulgaria it is also important to invest more in creating opportunities and more jobs, developing the economy, helping regional development and fighting against poverty in general. we have to see all the european aspects of this problem because only if we act on all fronts can we succeed.
mr president, very briefly: the socialist group feels that the number of speakers in this question time to the commission is not proportionate to the number of members of the various political groups. we are probably wrong, but that is a perception we are having, and we have been present since the beginning of question time. there are many members of the socialist group who have not spoken. but above all, mr president, there are among our members people who are going to be draftsmen of certain legislative reports, and people are being given the floor who are not members of the committee on employment and social affairs or who are not directly concerned with the dossiers referred to. could this not also be taken into account when choosing among members and choosing those who are most concerned by the issues that the commissioners are addressing?
in writing. − in favour. among other things, the revised text establishes that: annex iii to council regulation (eec) no 3922/91 of 16 december 1991 on the harmonisation of technical requirements and administrative procedures in the field of civil aviation1 defines the concept "home base" for aircrew members under union law. in order to facilitate the application of title ii of the regulation (ec) no 883/2004 for this group of persons, it is justified to create a special rule by using this notion of "home base" as the criterion for determining the applicable legislation for aircrew members. on the other hand, the applicable legislation for aircrew members should remain stable and the "home base" principle should not result in frequent changes of applicable legislation due to the industry’s work patterns or seasonal demands.
in writing. − in 2006, eu member states decided to start the process for eu accession to the treaty of friendship and cooperation in south-east asia (tac). in this house, parliament has authorized the union to accede to this treaty. this is important because the tac, signed by the original members of asean in 1976, is intended to promote peace, stability and cooperation in southeast asia. with its consent, parliament opens the door to eu accession to a treaty advocating the prevention and peaceful settlement of conflicts and the maintenance of peace. the treaty also calls for closer economic, commercial and social cooperation. that is why i am voting in favour, since we are talking about values and principles which are very much part of our own experience of european integration. in addition, accession will strengthen the eu's relations with a regional organisation with which it shares principles and motivations. with this consent of parliament, the high representative will be able to sign the eu's instruments of accession at the eu-asean ministerial meeting on 26 and 27 april 2012.
in writing. − in favour. the treaty of amity and cooperation in southeast asia (tac) was signed into force by the original members of asean in 1976. its purpose is to promote peace, stability and co-operation in southeast asia. in view of the non-controversial nature of this accession, which will enhance the eu's presence and visibility in the region, the committee on foreign affairs invites the european parliament to consent to the decision authorising the union to join the tac. furthermore, it supports the urgency request by the council to have the vote during the april 2012 part-session so as to make it possible for the hr/vp to sign the eu's accession instruments on the occasion of the asean-eu ministerial meeting of 26/27 april 2012.
in writing. − in favour. at the european council on 19 june 2009 the heads of state or government agreed to take a decision in order to provide reassurance and to respond to the concerns of the irish people on the treaty of lisbon in relation to the right to life, family and education, taxation, and security and defence. then, they declared that the decision was legally binding and would take effect on the date of entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. they also declared that, at the time of the conclusion of the next accession treaty and in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements, they would set out the provisions of the decision in a protocol to be attached to the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union. as a matter of fact, the heads of state or government at the european council on 19 june 2009 had already agreed on the substance of the provisions proposed in the draft protocol, so that the issue has already been politically settled and does not seem to justify convening a convention.
in writing. − in favour. in 2008 the irish government decided to hold a referendum on ratification of the treaty of lisbon. because of the negative result of the referendum of 12 june 2008, ireland was not in a position to ratify the treaty of lisbon. the european council, at its meeting on 11 to 12 december 2008, upon request of the irish government agreed that a decision would be taken to the effect that the commission will continue to include one national of each member state after 2014. the ep agrees with a european council decision in favour of examining the proposed amendments to the treaties.
in writing. − in favour. the outermost regions of the european union comprise a set of regions which, due to the specific characteristics associated with their physical and structural conditions and resulting from their remoteness, insular locations, difficult topography and climate, constitute a specific group of regions recognised by article 349 of the tfeu(1). these regions possess a special status enshrined in the treaty, which permits a derogation from the rules of the treaty and the adjustment of these rules to the outermost regions, by virtue of their particular characteristics and conditions. as these regions’ constraints and difficulties are permanent and distinguish them from other european regions, the eu rules and programmes cannot be applied in the same way as in the rest of the eu territory. their implementation has to be guided by a territorial approach.
in writing. − i agree on the main points of the renewed strategy for the union’s outermost regions (ors), which faces some structural difficulties. the points i appreciate the most are the development of synergies between the research framework programme horizon 2020 and the structural funds, the support to small and medium-sized enterprises and the encouragement of the participation of fledgling units of excellence and increase investment. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the resolution stresses, for instance, that, for the european union (eu) to be a credible actor in external relations, it must act consistently, in accordance with treaty and acquis obligations and avoid double standards between its human rights policy and other external policies, between internal and external policies, and in the conduct of its relations with third countries, combining this approach with the challenge of developing the human rights country strategy papers and implementing action plans, which must also cover democratisation, reflecting the specificities of each country as regards impact, and making full use of the eu’s relevant instruments.
in writing. − i am a catalan, from a minority nation in spain which has been discriminated against for hundreds of years and that has always been fighting for freedom and democracy. the catalan people have been demanding respect for their rights peacefully and constantly, even in the worst moments of our history, the civil war and under franco’s fascist regime only 40 years ago. i therefore understand and share the fears and problems of all people harassed and oppressed by their own government around the world! that is why, through the tools i have as a member of parliament, i think, i try to make the voices of all dissidents and non-violent opposition and the people who stand and fight for freedom and democracy heard as much as possible. i always try to denounce publicly the violations and abuses of human rights that take place all around the world and i call for the european union to stop ‘business as usual’ in its relations with many authoritarian regimes around the world. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. it is very important that the joint amendment calling for the ongoing construction of buildings linked to the eurovision song contest to be carried out in line with legislation, and expressing concern at government criticism of human rights activists is adopted.
in writing. − i agree with the effort that the european union is making on the eastern countries on their way to democracy, freedom and implementation of human rights. i will support this process of political cooperation.
in writing. − in favour. the two joint amendments asking the eu to replace france as co-chair of the osce minsk group and expressing concern at armenia’s high military expenditures were adopted.
in writing. − i agree on the effort that the european union is doing in this negotiation with armenia, and i hope they can find their way to democracy, freedom and implementation of human rights, transparency, and independence from the judiciary and fight against corruption. i encourage this eastern country to keep on joining the european values; though the way is not going to be easy. that is why i will vote in favour of this report.
mr president, mr barroso, go ahead and support the two packages that the spanish delegation of the european people's party has presented today, both the work package and the solidarity aid package for greece, which has a lot to do with the coherence of your approach. it is undeniable, ladies and gentlemen, that we are living in difficult times and events remind us every day that the crisis is still far from being resolved. the focus has inevitably turned to spain. the alarms in the markets have been unjustifiably raised, encouraged in part by statements which, in my view, mr president, are untimely. one in the context of an important election, in which both contenders cite my country as a dialectical element of confrontation. we certainly don't appreciate any of the references. on the other hand, some, in order to divert attention from their own problems, also deal with us with little political delicacy. today, some here have also shown no finesse - as the italians would say - and there has been a lack of political delicacy. ladies and gentlemen, the situation on the markets does not reflect the strength of spain. we are a solvent country and fully capable of dealing with its debts. the spanish debt remains below the european union average, and the spanish government is fully committed to meeting the deficit targets agreed with the european union. never, mr swoboda, has mr rajoy said that he cannot meet the objectives set by the european union. he has said the opposite: that he is prepared to meet each and every one of those objectives and he repeats it every day. the spanish government, in the few months it has been in office, has taken and will continue to take very ambitious measures to ensure fiscal consolidation and to lay the foundations for improved competitiveness, job creation and growth. in its forecasts made public yesterday, the imf itself admits that they are prior to the analysis of the decisions and measures taken by the spanish government at present. other measures we have adopted: general state budgets for 2012, which "in our opinion" will ensure this year that the deficit target is met; the organic law on budgetary stability; a reform of education and health, which will involve an adjustment of 10 billion euros, will be presented this month; the reform of the financial sector will also undoubtedly contribute to the fact that financial institutions will have to contribute more than 50 billion. in short, spain is meeting the objectives set by the commission, and what we are asking for is responsibility on the part of all. we must all save ourselves together and spain with everyone, without any doubt: the criticisms of one or the other do not contribute anything: either all the countries are able to act together and contribute to growth and the new path, or, otherwise, it will be difficult for us to move forward on the terms proposed by the commission. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue card question. what is it? if the measures that president rajoy's executive is taking, as he says, are the ones that set him the european guidelines, do you not think it would also be appropriate for mr rajoy to appear before this house and discuss with all the members what those measures are and what the effects are that are having not only on the spanish economy but also on the rest of the european economies?
answer to a blue card question. mr romeva, do you want to give mr rajoy, the prime minister, a leading role? i'm fine with that. i wouldn't mind. but mr rajoy is not the protagonist of the crisis. the protagonist of the crisis is the legacy received from the spanish socialist, communist and green left which has left the worst legacy that any government has ever left, when they received the best legacy that any government has ever left.
mr president, i welcome the fact that that mr barroso has talked today about the mutualisation of public debt. i want to ask the commission’s opinion on the european redemption fund. this is an instrument which would permit a temporary voluntary and partial mutualisation of public debt inside the eurozone. without changing the treaties, while complying with the german constitution and linked to strict conditionality, in my opinion the european redemption fund could be a successful tool with which to end the debt crisis. so i would like to hear the commission’s opinion on this.
mr president, i am glad that this debate is taking place in the presence of the commission, but i am sorry that the representative of the european central bank is not here, who has a lot to say, because he could illustrate from his experience that when the european central bank acts decisively, tensions on the euro are eased. this means that these tensions have more to do with the voracity of speculators than with the fundamentals of the economies affected, including the peripheral countries, and spain is a good example. it has been mentioned here on many occasions, because spain, at the time the crisis broke out, did not have a problem of public deficit or public accounts or accumulated public debt. no, no and no. we are well below the union average and had even settled the three budgetary years immediately preceding it with surpluses. it was the financial crisis that caused spain financial difficulties, not the other way around. the financial crisis was the cause, not the debt or the deficit, of spain's financial difficulties, which shows the importance of the european central bank taking decisive action, with determination, with decision, acting as a firewall, acting as a containment dam against speculation against the euro. but that requires a change of policy, which the commission has an obligation to promote. a change of policy which does not consist in fulfilling that austerity recipe which excludes everything else that is leading to disaster for the european union, but which must aim at giving substance to the concepts of growth and employment. the diagnosis and treatment have been a resounding and resounding failure, and the patience of millions of europeans has already been exhausted, especially the youngest. change has to happen and it has to happen now.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, on behalf of the danish presidency i would like to thank parliament for the importance it attaches to the subject of the fight against fraud and evasion. the council shares the view that this issue is a vital part of tax policy and that tax cooperation is a priority for the presidency. this is even more the case in the context of the current economic climate and the need for all the member states to ensure ambitious, fiscal consolidation. the council has undertaken a variety of initiatives to address this problem in recent years. in 2006 and 2007 the council adopted conclusions aimed at establishing an anti-fraud strategy at community level, in particular in the area of vat fraud. since then the council has adopted a number of acts such as the strengthening of the regulation on administrative cooperation between member states in the field of vat as well as a number of modifications to the vat directive which are aimed at tackling fraud. this includes the speeding up of information exchange between member states, the establishment of conditions for vat exemptions on imports and agreements on invoicing rules. in the area of direct taxation, as recently as february 2011 the council adopted the directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation, which is aimed at strengthening the instruments of mutual assistance in the assessment of direct taxes between member states. the directive provides, among other things, for increased possibilities for exchanging information and requests and introduces provisions on the automatic exchange of information. furthermore, in 2003 the council adopted the directive on the taxation of saving income in the form of interest payments. finally, in march 2010 the council adopted the directive concerning mutual assistance for the recovery of claims relating to taxes, duties and other measures, which is a major upgrade of the existing mutual assistance instruments to collect taxes. i believe that these various initiatives demonstrate the council’s commitment to tackling tax fraud and evasion. that said, it is clear that more can and should be done. at its last meeting in march the european council underlined the importance of fiscal consolidation and growth. in that context it called on the council and the commission to rapidly develop concrete ways to improve the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion and to report back in june this year. the danish presidency attaches great importance to this issue. the work is currently under way, and we fully expect to respect the deadline and report back to the european council in june. obviously, at this stage i cannot provide you with full details of what we expect to have in that report, but i can give you an idea of the work which is ongoing in council. firstly, the danish presidency is pressing ahead with the savings taxation directive. this file is due to be discussed by ecofin ministers in may or june, hopefully on 15 may. at that meeting, the danish presidency will propose that a mandate be adopted to allow the commission to open negotiations with switzerland and other non-eu western european countries on a new generation of savings taxation agreements. the savings agreements with third countries can then be revised in parallel with the proposed amendments to the eu savings directive. the overall objective is to ensure more effective taxation of cross-border savings, and the danish presidency hopes that we will be able to make real progress on this difficult file, a file which is important for combating tax fraud and tax evasion. secondly, on the issue of excess duties, the new administrative collaboration directive is due to be adopted at the next ecofin council meeting. this constitutes a major upgrade of the tools available to member states to fight fraud and evasion in the area. thirdly, as regards vat, the council will take a close look at the commission’s communication on the future of vat, which proposes new ways for dealing with vat fraud. detailed council conclusions on this issue are expected by the end of the danish presidency. in addition to initiatives in the legislative field, the council is continuing work on the coordination of tax policies. the council’s code of conduct group, which coordinates the efforts of member states in the fight against harmful tax competition in the area of business taxation, is embarking on a new line of work aimed at promoting the principles of the code to third countries. dear colleagues, we will be working closely with you and the commission to ensure that this will be a successful battle against tax fraud and evasion.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, minister, in these difficult times we must ensure that taxes are efficiently and fairly collected. we cannot ask citizens to accept the burden of increased taxes and cuts in public services if we do not do our utmost to clamp down on activities and practices that rob member states of legitimate income. i am particularly pleased that the european council has called for an improvement in this field. as stated in the ags last december, the commission has already been working on a strategy to enhance the fight against tax fraud and evasion. the request of the heads of state and government and your debate today will give further momentum to this work. in this context, i look forward to hearing your views and concerns today. in order to better frame a european-wide strategy, i believe that we need to take a three-pronged approach. firstly, member states need to make the best use of the tools available at eu level. for example, eurofisc can provide a real return on investment to fight vat fraud through the quick exchange of targeted information and the opportunity for joint risk analysis. the commission will continue to support eurofisc and the practical activities under the fiscalis spending programme. in direct taxation, member states have to use fully the provisions of the mutual assistance directive and the mechanisms of the savings directive. this brings me to my second point: progress in the council on pending proposals that impact on the fight against tax fraud and evasion is too slow. finance ministers have to find a way out of the impasse on the revision of the savings directive that we have been in for too long, the more so since there have been important international developments over the last three years. the exchange of information has become a global standard undermining bank secrecy. it is now time for the european union to take its own mechanisms a step forward. the first step has to be for the council to mandate the commission to negotiate with our partners in neighbouring jurisdictions, particularly switzerland. thirdly, we need to look forward by developing new ideas. what can be done? for example, develop a joined-up approach to controls and investigations not only across borders between tax administrations but also between different agencies such as those dealing with customs and tax. new ideas should also be developed, such as quick reaction mechanisms for allowing member states to take rapid action against new types of carousel vat fraud. as already announced in the commission’s work programme for 2012, i also intend to go further in fighting against tax havens and aggressive tax planning. we need to leverage the economic and political muscle of the union to ensure that we defend ourselves against non-cooperative jurisdictions and others that do not play fair. in parallel, based on the results of the ongoing double non-taxation public consultation, i will be continuing to push for effective means to end situations of aggressive tax planning which undermine fair tax collection. before concluding, let me point out that we are aware that improvements are needed not only on tax legislation. as commissioner in charge of anti-fraud, i tabled last june the commission anti-fraud strategy which tackles large-scale smuggling of cigarettes and alcohol at the eu eastern border. it increases transparency in entities benefiting from eu funds: those which have not fulfilled their tax obligations would be refused any eu subsidies. my fellow commissioner michel barnier is also very active in promoting transparency in company accounts, with recent proposals on country-by-country reporting and interconnection of companies registers. in conclusion i believe that we must continue acting strongly against tax fraud and evasion and i look forward to a vibrant and constructive debate with you. thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, mr commissioner, the last european council stressed the need to improve the tax system, by increasing the efficiency of collection and by tackling tax evasion and fraud. spain will submit a law to this effect. the ideas put forward by the council, and expressed in this resolution, are priorities for the economic policy of spain and - i have no doubt - of the rest of europe. they will create legal certainty, reduce the shadow economy and reduce the number of people who do not meet their tax obligations, which will certainly help to create a fairer europe. in addition, it is appropriate to take into account the oecd recommendations and the principle of seeking to eliminate or minimise the comparative burden between those who have complied with their tax obligations and those who do not. in this way, both the resolution we are voting on in the plenary and the spanish plan to prevent and combat tax fraud are aimed at combating the shadow economy, promoting transparency and european coordination, increasing revenue by reducing the deficit - something so necessary today - and not undermining growth opportunities, but, on the contrary, creating a more efficient and equitable system that encourages the realisation of these opportunities. these decisions will have a very positive impact on public accounts and will stress significantly help to reduce the deficit and thus to restore growth. finally, and as we are talking about growth, i should like to take this opportunity to stress that in order to achieve the growth we so much want, we need to continue to focus on the internationalisation of our economy and our companies, as the council has stated many times. but to do that, we must ensure the legal security of our investments, and i do not want to prejudge the debate that will follow. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue card question. what is it? mr president, mr zalba, you have referred on several occasions to the spanish government's plans on tax evasion. i think you are referring to the spanish government's plans for a tax amnesty for fraudsters. can you explain to the house what the tax amnesty is and how it will regularize those who have defrauded, to the detriment of those who pay correctly?
answer to a blue card question. first of all, mrs muñiz, the spanish government has not approved any tax amnesty because, as you know, that concept is not included in the spanish constitution. it is true that the spanish government has proposed regularisation as other countries have done - as may be the case in belgium or germany - or even other spanish governments of the same political colour - that is, the socialist party - for some years now.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i am speaking to show my agreement with this resolution and the measures it proposes. the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion is a matter of institutional effectiveness and social justice. firstly, because it discourages fraudsters and motivates those who commit fraud; secondly, because it improves the state of public accounts; and thirdly, because it reinforces the values of solidarity and social justice on which our common life is based. i also strongly agree that tax harmonization, coordination of all european tax authorities with institutional, regulatory and economic autonomy, and the exchange of data between them all are essential to combat fraud. and i would encourage everyone to be treated equally in this endeavour, because my region, which is fiscally autonomous, has been punished for applying tax rules identical to those used by other member states which have not received any european reproach for this. i would like to draw your attention to the need to improve control of the underground economy and to eliminate this practice, which is yet another systematic and horizontal form of tax evasion, tax fraud and unfair competition. i would like to see this resolution denouncing this phenomenon and taking concrete measures to correct it. finally, i would encourage the sharing of good practices to promote the values i mentioned at the beginning among citizens, and i am sure that we will soon be tackling corruption at european level, another scourge that undermines the legitimacy and prestige of public administration.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, minister, this has been a most timely and constructive debate. i have listened attentively to the many views expressed and i am encouraged in my determination to push for further action against tax fraud and tax evasion by your clearly-articulated concerns. the heads of state and government have clearly indicated the importance they attach to concrete action in this area. the challenge is to translate this political wish into real action on the ground. effective tax systems require many things, such as good design, effective controls and strong administrations. these are elements that member states need to reflect on, over and above the traditional union concerns about cross-border issues on tax. i believe that we now have the opportunity, with the european semester process this year, to put these issues clearly at the centre of the economic governance agenda, and i will be advocating this strongly in the coming months. i have two important priorities. firstly, i wish to ensure that the commission’s report to the european council in june provides a sound and realistic basis for further work. it is important to mobilise finance ministers to tackle the important issues concerning tax fraud and evasion. secondly, i will, over the coming months, be developing my ideas for the initiative i am planning on tax havens and aggressive tax planning. you have provided me today with an extensive list of concerns and ideas. many of you referred to the issue of agreement with switzerland, and i am looking forward to the efforts of the danish presidency to finalise this point and pave the way for the commission to negotiate with switzerland and to give our member states the possibility to collect the money that they deserve. many of you spoke about issues of aggressive tax planning. this is also on the commission’s agenda for this year, and we will put forward concrete initiatives on how to tackle this problem. on sharing good practices, i have to say that we have a specific structure for this: a tax policy group that was established by the commission. in this forum we invite member states to share their good practices, in order to be able to use these practices in other member states. mr bullmann raised the issue of the united states’ ability to fight against tax fraud. i would not agree that we are worse than the united states. actually, we are working in very close cooperation with the united states in promoting standards of exchange of information around the globe, and i hope that this cooperation will provide good results, not only in our relationship with switzerland but also with other third countries. i will also be engaging with stakeholders on this issue and building on the current public consultation on cases of double non-taxation. the support of parliament is essential if we are to progress, both in providing political leadership and in supporting appropriate commission legislative initiatives. to conclude, mr president, honourable members, minister, i am pleased to have been able to contribute to today’s debate. i have appreciated your insights and i look forward to further opportunities to debate this important issue.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank you for an interesting debate which i think clearly shows that the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion is an issue which is of great importance to both the council and parliament and the commission. i also think that the many speeches today have underlined the importance that is rightly attached to this subject. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner šemeta for reviewing the commission's work in this area and i would like to endorse the statements made by the danish presidency. we also very much appreciate the cooperation with the commissioner and with the commission. as i began to say in my first speech, a wide range of issues are currently being discussed in the council and i hope and expect that there will be results to be seen in the near future. the question of switzerland has been raised and the danish presidency is pressing for a mandate to negotiate an agreement with switzerland to be given soon. the presidency, in cooperation with the member states and the commission and this parliament, will work to promote the processes and we will do our best to make progress on the many cases. we hope, among other things, for progress on interest taxation - a subject which has been discussed for a number of years and where considerable progress is needed. we will also do our utmost to meet the european council's request to report to it on progress made before the end of our presidency. finally, i should like to take this opportunity to thank this parliament for putting a very important matter on the agenda. the danish presidency, together with parliament and the commission, will do our utmost to ensure that the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud is placed high on the european agenda and that results are achieved so that everyone contributes what he has to contribute to our common welfare and our common europe.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, on monday the argentinian government announced that it intends to expropriate the majority share held by a spanish company in the ypf energy company. this parliament is right to raise this important issue as a matter of urgency. before going any further, let me stress that the matter has not yet been discussed in the council. however, the danish presidency – and i expect this will also be the position of the council once we have had the opportunity to discuss the matter in the foreign affairs council next monday – shares those concerns and regards the intentions of the argentinian government as unacceptable and damaging. this is the case with regard both to the continuing attractiveness of investing in argentina and to the wider business environment. i would therefore like to make it crystal clear that we fully understand the particular concerns, in this case of the spanish government, and that the danish presidency strongly supports spain in this matter. i have also noted that both the president of the commission and the high representative have expressed similar concerns. the recent announcement by president kirchner threatens to undermine the confidence of the international business community and the security of its investments in the country. it is likely to discourage further investment and therefore risk damaging the future development of the argentinian economy. as such, it is a profoundly misguided measure and one which will come to be seen as contrary to argentina’s interests. the most recent announcement concerning ypf is only the latest in a number of decisions taken by argentina in the areas of import restriction and investment policy. we have followed these announcements with growing concern. such unilateral measures are not helpful to a flourishing business environment, and they risk creating wider difficulties in the relationship between the eu and argentina. more generally, the business community within the eu needs security if it is to continue to invest internationally. insecurity is bad for business, for growth and for job creation. ultimately that creates problems for those countries which depend on inward investment. legal certainty is essential in our globalised economic environment. it means being sure that third countries comply with their international commitments, including in the areas of the treatment and protection of inward investments. in response to the announcement by the argentinian president, a decision was taken, as announced by the high representative yesterday, to postpone the meeting of the joint cooperation committee with argentina, which was due to take place this friday. the eu has also formally expressed its concerns on this matter to its delegation in buenos aires, and the issue is due to be raised at next monday’s meeting of the foreign affairs council. we will need to look closely at what next steps might need to be taken. in doing so, we will take full account of the outcome of this debate and will of course keep parliament fully informed of further developments. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, the european commission is following very closely the situation created by the announcement by the argentine republic of the expropriation of the majority shareholding of the spanish company repsol in the capital of ypf. the european commission wishes to express its serious concern and its strongest condemnation of this action, which affects a european company and, therefore, a significant investment of the european union in argentina. ypf is the largest oil producer in the country. this announcement creates a situation of legal uncertainty which is incompatible with international law and may seriously affect international investments, putting their stability and protection in question. the commission also wishes to express its deep concern about the possible negative impact also in other sectors which were mentioned by the president of the argentine republic in her public speech. the commission urges the argentine government to respect its international commitments concerning the treatment and protection of investments originating in a member state of the european union and, in particular, calls for respect in this case of the bilateral treaty for the promotion and protection of investments signed between argentina and spain on 3 october 1991. the agreement expressly protects investments made in accordance with the law, requires fair treatment of investments and prohibits unjustified or discriminatory measures such as those which have occurred in this case. these commitments must be respected. the european commission demands that the rights of european investors be properly protected and guaranteed. the european commission has already conveyed these serious concerns to the argentine government through the delegation of the european union in argentina. president barroso himself has had several contacts with the spanish prime minister, mariano rajoy, and he has clearly expressed his concern from the outset. commissioner de gucht, responsible for trade, will send a letter to the argentine minister of commerce to this effect. as an industry commissioner, i can also inform you that the mission of my directorate-general for industry of the european commission with european companies scheduled for next week to brazil, uruguay, chile and argentina will obviously not take place in argentina. it is clear that the climate created by the expropriation does not allow it to take place in argentina. the european commission fully supports spain. our services are currently studying, in agreement with spain, the measures to be taken. at this point, no options are off the table. i would like to stress the importance of reaching a mutually agreed solution in accordance with international law, the principles of legal certainty and investment protection, which does not disturb relations between the european union and argentina or harm european investors in that country.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i will not waste much time in qualifying the decision and the procedure adopted by the government of argentina in the expropriation of ypf-repsol. but as i said yesterday, arbitrariness, legal uncertainty and illegitimacy are some of the terms that merit this decision. we are therefore faced with a breach of rights and principles, with a bad political and economic practice, and with a disturbing precedent, so that this fact affects all europeans. we are not, therefore, dealing with a dispute between spain and argentina alone. that is why, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats), i would like to stress today the why, the why, the how, what europeans - the european institutions - can do when they make decisions of this kind which violate the principles and, of course, the freedoms i have just mentioned, so that such actions are not repeated. and i'm going to allow myself two ideas. the first is that at times of crisis such as the present, the weaknesses of everyone, of national governments, of national institutions, of the various countries, both inside and outside, are growing, and at the same time this fact reminds us that the strength of the union is the reason for the union and that the best instrument for alleviating the difficulties and weaknesses of the member states must be the strength of the union. and that is the main purpose of the european union. and the second idea is that the crisis is common to all, it is present in all european countries, although for the moment it seems to be taking hold in one country or another, but it is a deep crisis of pattern and, if not resolved, it is manifesting itself gradually, gradually, systematically in all countries. one of the root causes of this crisis is the union's lack of political ambition, and the crisis, the various manifestations of the crisis we are facing, must therefore be an opportunity for europe to speak out clearly when an injustice of this kind threatens the investments and the future of the european institutions. that is why i am pleased with the determination of mr wammen, mr tajani, mrs ashton and mr barroso, who have indicated that they are considering measures to deal with this situation. the more measures, the more planned, the more strategic, the better and the more orderly, we will have more and better responses to this crisis. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue card question. what is it? i agree that we are in a crisis situation, but you have forgotten to mention one important dimension, which is the climate dimension, the environmental dimension. given that the burning of fossil fuels is one of the main causes of climate change, would it not be more interesting, more timely, more reasonable for two countries - and in this case two regions - to cooperate in finding solutions that could deal with this situation and not compete, as they are doing at the moment, to continue consuming fossil resources whose use, moreover, somehow pollutes us all?
answer to a blue card question. mr president, you cannot use the climate crisis as an excuse to cover up an injustice of this nature. in view of the negative climate change we are currently experiencing, we cannot in any way hide the injustices, arbitrariness and legal uncertainties that are taking place in a country such as argentina. one day we will have the debate on whatever you want, the climate crisis and - you are not listening to me very much - the crisis of values and the crisis of principles that we have in the european union and, certainly, in the european countries. we talk about these issues whenever you want, the climate crisis and the crisis of values, but today we have to deal with an injustice that is taking place in a country, argentina, which is damaging european expectations and investments in the countries of the region.
the argentine government has started the process of expropriating the majority of the shares in ypf belonging to repsol, a european company based in spain. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the projects. if it were, it would also be discriminatory. in the last few weeks there has certainly been no shortage of deliberate deception, false promises, errors of judgment and miscalculations. the consequence of all this has been the absence, the failure of a serious negotiation which could have prevented the expropriation. but we all know that this is not a sudden decision, nor a surprise or a hasty one. on the contrary, an essential element of the expropriation was being prepared and leaked out, with obvious damage to the value of the company. my group shares in substance the view expressed yesterday by the high representative in this house. it shares the concern expressed by mr barroso, the concern expressed by the spanish government and the concern also just expressed by the danish presidency. the decision is a negative signal, not only for european or spanish investors and for international investors: it may also be the beginning of a path of insecurity that will damage all the relations between argentina, spain and europe, which have been traditionally good. the measure taken by the argentine government requires a clear, immediate, unequivocal response, but also an intelligent, sustained, rather than hasty, response. this is a response which all the european institutions must give to the spanish government. a response that defends the legitimate interests of european companies, but also a proportionate response that avoids an escalation of confrontation between latin america and europe. companies operating on this continent contribute to its growth and must respect environmental principles, but the first respect is to internationally agreed standards. the argentine government has broken these rules and that is why this parliament has responded in this way.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to express our total disagreement with the expropriation of the european shareholders of the company ypf in argentina for three basic reasons: it is a violation of international law, it is a decision that is full of misunderstood protectionism and ineffective in promoting development and, finally, it produces enormous legal uncertainty for all european operators who are investing and collaborating with the development of the argentine republic. we also want to express our concern about the process which led to the expropriation and the campaign by ypf to artificially lower its market value and to try to justify and cheapen this operation. we are also concerned about the impact of this decision on companies in europe which have a partnership with repsol. finally, we are deeply concerned about the future of other european companies in strategic sectors in argentina. for these reasons, my group wants to get the argentine authorities to reconsider their decision. that is why this resolution strongly rejects and condemns what has happened. it also encourages the mobilisation of all available resources to defend the community's interests and calls for a resumption of dialogue. i hope so for the sake of the union, of argentine women and argentines, and for the sake of argentina's credibility and international prestige. i hope that this decision will not hinder the negotiation of the trade agreements currently under negotiation between our union and mercosur, which are fundamental for both sides. i therefore hope that the european authorities will use all the diplomatic and economic resources at their disposal to encourage this change of attitude and to seek a mutual solution.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, we are discussing the legal certainty of european investments. but it is precisely for the sake of this legal certainty that our companies must fulfil their commitments. ypf failed to honour its investment agreements despite making a profit of 16 billion dollars. ypf compromised a country's energy sufficiency by causing a drastic drop in oil and gas production. argentina has the capacity to supply itself, but is forced to import gas and oil worth 11 billion dollars, an amount that could be used for other needs of its population. on the other hand, we defend the right of peoples to exercise their sovereignty in managing their energy resources, particularly where there is a divergence between public and private interests. our group calls on the european union not to hinder the negotiations on the mercosur agreement by a one-off and isolated conflict. the argentine government is modifying the wrong policies of the past, while the spanish government is confusing the interests of a company with those of the state. finally, i hope that this debate will provide a meeting point and that this controversy will encourage us to implement sustainable energy models. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue card question. what is it? madam miranda, apart from the justifications for the expropriation of the ypf company by the argentine government, which seem to be not shared by the commission, the council or the majority of this parliament, would you also agree that the argentine government does not even want to comply with the economic valuation provided for in the expropriation?
answer to a blue card question. mr garriga polledo, the recently approved decree not only provides but also establishes the legitimacy of a sovereign government to take decisions insist within the framework of its own sovereignty, and provides that all investors will be compensated and the agreements signed will be complied with. so it's a subject that's still open.
mr president, this morning i read in a leading german newspaper that spain and argentina are in conflict over an oil company. this is the wrong way to put it. the conflict is between europe and argentina and, beyond that, with that great european value which is legal certainty and its respect in international trade relations. the european institutions have excellent lawyers who can find the appropriate instruments in primary or secondary community law to counteract the arbitrariness of the argentine authorities. i'm a humble professor of public law and i offer to collaborate with them. the credibility of the european union in the eyes of its citizens is at stake.
mr president, it has been said that taxation is the unfinished business of european integration. progress in this remaining area is necessary to consolidate the gains made, to address current challenges and to have credible economic governance. in order to do so with full democratic legitimacy, parliament will also need to have more than a merely advisory role. the existence of a common consolidated corporate tax base is a long-awaited step, an essential initiative to combat harmful tax competition, to eliminate tax arbitrage and to allocate fairly the profits and losses of companies in the same group located in different member states. its implementation can contribute to transparency, which will make it possible to compare the tax burden, to simplification, which will reduce bureaucratic and management costs resulting from disparity of legislation, and, moreover, it will provide a level playing field so that resources can be used in a more equitable and fairer way. all of this serves the objective of promoting sustainable growth and employment. the commission proposal brought greater fiscal coherence in an area where bilateral initiatives already exist but, nevertheless, offered an optional regime, also offering a carte consolidation for national companies. the compromise reached in the committee on economic and monetary affairs is satisfactory because it offers a path of gradual bindingness and, at the same time, envisages the possibility of a review including the analysis of minimum rates. that is why i wholeheartedly support it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue card question. i don't share that experience. i think that the european countries - and europe is a clear model that offers the best results - are not precisely those with the lowest participation in tax matters. but in any case it is clear that harmful tax competition exists and that initiatives such as the one presented can help to reduce and eliminate it, and that cooperation and solidarity in tax matters must be intensified at the level of the european union.
opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. - mr president, i would like to thank mrs lulling for all the work she has been doing and all the various colleagues who have spoken. i would like to remind the commission and mr šemeta in particular, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, that what is being proposed to us at a time of crisis - let us say, a total crisis, economic, financial, but also of european industry - is the creation of a market in which the european union is not yet a leader and on which we are also dependent, drawing on other experiences and other technologies. it is about creating a market for biofuels at the expense of another market in which the european union is the undisputed leader and where we are increasingly exporting to countries such as the united states or india. the european union's leadership in diesel technology is clear, where we have invested enormous amounts in innovation, in the generation of more efficient, quieter, less polluting, less fuel-consuming vehicles and engines. the reduction in co2 is so obvious and so attractive to users that, right now, 76% of vehicles manufactured in the european union are diesel-powered vehicles. and the commission is also well aware that even in a 'transitional' period, diesel is essential, even if the 2020 target of reducing emissions to 95 g/km is to be achieved. i mean, with all these positive elements, why does the commission, at this time of brutal crisis, want to create one market by killing another? so i think that we should think twice and give ourselves the possibility of reaching an agreement and a consensus.
the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development adopted a number of amendments. - mr president, the committee on agriculture shares the ultimate objective of this directive - to try to guide, from taxation, the composition of our energy mix - but we are faced with a very complex debate full of economic, social and environmental issues, in a context in which it is important to maintain those balances that make us make further progress in the environmental field, yes, but that also do not harm us economically and that do not create greater social crises than those we are already experiencing. this is the case in agriculture. as everyone knows, energy costs are increasingly taking up a very large share of the fixed costs of our farms, at a time when we are also in a debate in which the crises on the commodity markets are combined with the prospect of loss of aid and increased health and environmental requirements which reduce the margins of profitability. that is why we have asked for two things in particular. the first is the maintenance of zero-rate deductions in the energy component, now linked to the drafting and implementation of energy efficiency and saving strategies in rural areas; and the incorporation of agriculture into sectors considered to be at risk of carbon leakage in order to also have access to the deductions allowed in the co2 emissions section. that is to say, a policy which is more environmentally demanding, but which maintains the balance which makes our rural environment viable in a time of change and uncertainty.
mr president, commissioner, i have the honour of chairing the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, where this matter has been discussed in detail, at length and over a long period of time. and as a result of this intense debate, a democratic vote was taken which expressed the will of the majority reflected in the committee's vote: 31 votes in favour of the agreement, that is to say, parliament's consent to the conclusion of the agreement, and 23 votes against, with one abstention. i think that vote reflects the recognition of the work done in the course of the negotiation. first, in order to assert the limitation of the subject-matter, so that what was the other party's claim - which obviously never leads to a perfect result - to include all offences punishable by sentences of more than one year's imprisonment, is reduced to offences of terrorism, serious transnational crime and offences punishable by sentences of more than three years. the principle of retention is also affirmed, with a fixed period of time, by contracting and limiting the retention period of data and by making data anonymous after five years, except for terrorist offences, which are retained for a period of fifteen years. but finally, there is also a reasonable balance in the guarantees offered with regard to the assertion of the principle of data extraction - the so-called push system - and the non-discriminatory nature of the remedies offered to citizens affected by that data recording system. well, i think what comes out of that is the affirmation of the principle that the european parliament has the opportunity to be part of the formation of the negotiating will of the european union and therefore to be relevant when negotiating with other globally relevant actors, as is certainly the case with the united states. because the alternative, of course, is to leave the 27 member states to bilateral negotiations, and i think there is an appreciation of the principle that negotiating the whole of the european union makes us stronger, while leaving the 27 member states to negotiate will make us more vulnerable. but it is also recognised that this means, in practical terms, that citizens would be bound by the agreement currently in force - the 2007 agreement - which does not improve the situation of european citizens. on the contrary, to bring them back to the 2007 agreement would make their situation worse, would not improve their guarantees but would make them worse and there is therefore a reasonable recognition that the agreement produces an improvement, with respect to the status quo. it introduces a uniform legal guarantee throughout the european union and produces a set of legal rules which will have to be complied with by airlines, which are responsible for the transit of at least 42 million europeans who wish to travel to the united states, with shared legal security standards, under the terms now fixed by this agreement.
blue card question. what is it? mr president, mr busuttil, are you aware that only three countries have included the pnr in their national legislation? do you know that the uk and france - two of these countries - have included it in their anti-immigration laws? do you know that denmark - the third country that has introduced it into its legislation - has done so only for cases of terrorism? do you know that perhaps we are stealing from the national parliaments with this debate a debate as important as this one? are you aware that the commission's legal report is not the only report on this subject and that, as stated here, not only legal experts have been involved in the preparation of the data controller's report and the article 29 working party report (gt 29)? in the report of the wg 29, it is the national data protection supervisors of each of the countries who have considered that this agreement violates the fundamental rights of european citizens.
madam president, i am giving my opinion on the matter. in response to the threats facing the european union and the united states, the pnr agreement is understood in the context of the fight against transnational crime in all its dimensions. both the strategy on the external dimension of justice and home affairs and the union's counter-terrorism strategy, as well as the stockholm programme, refer to the need to create close cooperation with third countries through the exchange of information. the data collected under the pnr agreement is used for prevention, investigation, suppression and prosecution purposes only. the new agreement represents a major improvement on the 2007 agreement: the push method is recognised as the transfer model, there is greater protection of the data collected, an increase in the number of supervisory authorities, and progress in the evaluation of data, not forgetting the right of citizens to correction and deletion, with the possibility of bringing effective administrative or judicial remedies. the agreement also respects the rights of privacy and privacy in accordance with the principle of proportionality. only such limitations may be introduced as are necessary and effectively meet objectives of general interest recognised by the union or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others. in this situation we have two options: to vote in favour of the agreement, benefiting from the improvements introduced, or to vote against it; in this case we would create a wide legal uncertainty which could lead to the signing of bilateral agreements or to penalize and oblige the airlines. we must commit ourselves to and ensure a high level of effective protection of personal data, which means that any transfer of pnr to the united states must be done in a secure manner and in accordance with union law, and that passengers can exercise their rights in relation to the processing of their data. so, in view of this situation, madam president, i am in favour of this agreement to fight terrorism and transnational crime. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue card question. i am not saying that the european union should be a military power, but that it should be a political power. in fact, you use the language of goethe and i use the language of cervantes, and we have interpreters, but, despite that, we cannot communicate. why would you do that? we can't communicate because you talk about impressions and i talk about experiences. so, based on my experiences, i am definitely in favour of the pnr in terms of security.
madam president, the most dramatic end of all those who come to europe thinking it is paradise is that of the women who feel obliged to pay for their journey with their bodies. surely, no humiliation is like that and it really is the hardest slavery we are living. it is not impossible to combat this phenomenon, but it is a very difficult phenomenon which forces us to develop our methods of combating it day by day. but in fact, it's a phenomenon that we can address. that is our responsibility: thanks to the directive we have just put into effect and the means we have put in place - such as the coordinator in this area - we can make very rapid progress. we urgently need a report on the routes, the phenomena, the causes, what are the... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, madam commissioner, you are well aware that human trafficking continues in europe by land, sea and air: women, children, especially girls forced into prostitution as sex slaves, migrants and asylum seekers, victims of organized criminal networks, a crime against human dignity, which for a long time was considered an isolated episode, but which has increased in recent years as a global problem to which no european state is unacquainted. for example, the spanish state is one of the main destinations for human trafficking worldwide, and today this tragedy is a structural problem. this european strategy of coordinating and monitoring public policies and causes is therefore very important, but it is not enough for the member states to take a stand. it is necessary to proceed...
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
thank you very much, mr. speroni, for your timekeeping accuracy.
the voting is closed.
we shall now move on to the explanations of vote.
mr jahr, you asked for the floor. i will give you the floor but before i do, i want to remind you that, according to rule 170, a request to give an explanation of vote cannot be accepted once the first explanation has started. i will give you floor anyway because i am a very good person but, according to the rules, i should not. i will give you the floor, but do not tell anybody!
thank you, mr tannock, but you have seen that my nature is to be benevolent. (applause)
mr president, the energy sources we use for mobility in europe will change in the coming decades. however, achieving this objective is incompatible with the penalisation of diesel fuel consumption for motor vehicles. this was the meaning of my vote in the vote on the directive on the taxation of energy products and electricity. thanks to european investment in research and development, diesel engines now consume 30% less fuel and pollute 20% to 25% less than petrol engines. europe is a world leader in diesel technologies. therefore, penalizing diesel is contradictory to the 2020 strategy. the commission therefore concludes that the measures at issue are imputable to the state and that they constitute state aid. in short, damage which we have avoided by voting today. i have also supported the compensation for the professional use of diesel, both in transport and in the primary sector, to preserve employment in these sectors and avoid inflation.
these explanations of vote are a monopoly of the british conservatives because all of you – with the exception of mr kelly, who is not a british conservative – are british conservatives!
ms girling, do you want to speak? i see that your interpretation of rule 170 is the same as mr tannock’s.
in writing. − in favour. much of the positive impact of a vpa depends on how much local communities have been involved in the process and how the implementation is monitored. if these two criteria are not sufficiently addressed, the entire vpa/flegt policy could become the fig leaf for an even more aggressive exploitation of the remaining large forests areas. the vpa with the central african republic (car) falls somewhat short on both, especially since the car also maintains a redd process (the un programme on reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries); hence the implementation of the vpa needs to be especially carefully monitored.
in writing. − in favour. bilateral voluntary partnership agreements (vpas) with the main wood-producing countries are the cornerstone of the eu action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt) to halt illegal logging. so far, the eu has concluded vpa/flegts with ghana, congo, cameroon and the central african republic. an agreement with indonesia is pending. vpas commit the partners to trade only in verified legal timber products imported into the eu. in order to verify the legality of timber exports, the vpa establishes the framework, institutions and systems of a licensing scheme and sets out supply chain controls. it also devises a framework for monitoring implementation. liberia is an important partner. 45 per cent of the country is covered with forest and is home to half of west africa’s remaining rain forests. during the civil war (1997-2003), timber revenues were used to fuel the conflict, which in turn led to un sanctions against the liberian timber trade. in 2006, liberia reformed the forestry sector. hence it already has in place a national wood traceability system on which the vpa is built. a joint implementation committee will be established to oversee the implementation of the agreement.
in writing. − abstention. the risk-sharing instrument shall be applicable for the rest of the cohesion policy programming period 2007-2013. the risk-sharing instrument shall only be applicable in member states that have been granted financial assistance according to one of the mechanisms set out in article 77(2) of council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 as amended by regulation (eu) no 1311/2011. currently, this applies to four member states: greece, ireland, portugal and romania. the commission is reported as stating that greece is the only country which has so far expressed interest in the instrument and that the commission would also not have enough administrative capacity to cope with projects from more than one member state. the instrument is only applicable as long as the member states fall within the financial assistance mechanism. our group has considered as problematic a first-reading agreement text in trilogues before even the official compromise negotiations for the vote in the committee on regional development started.
in writing. − in favour. a european legal framework allowing airlines to transfer passengers’ pnr data was established by council decision 2004/496/ec of 17 may 2004 on the conclusion of an agreement between the european community and the united states of america on the processing and transfer of pnr data by air carriers to the united states department of homeland security, bureau of customs and border protection (9) (hereinafter ‘the agreement’). it is clear to me that the ep should take the view that there is legal uncertainty as to whether the draft agreement complies with eu data protection legislation and thus whether it is compatible with the treaties in this respect. furthermore, it questions the choice of legal basis, i.e. articles 82(1)(d) and 87(2)(a) tfeu (police and judicial cooperation), rather than article 16 tfeu (data protection).
in writing. − against. a majority of meps has today voted to reverse the european parliament’s long-standing role in defence of eu citizens’ civil liberties and to endorse intrusive big-brother-style surveillance. instead of rejecting this senseless and excessive collection and retention of private data, those meps who voted in favour of the deal have engaged in gross hypocrisy and sought to wash their hands of the pnr controversy. the core fundamental rights concerns raised by the parliament and courts across europe have not been addressed in the deal endorsed today.
in writing. - i voted in favour, aware that the agreement can be improved and hoping that it will indeed be improved in the future.
in writing. − i voted against the agreement on the transfer of passenger name records because i have some reservations on the use that under the current terms can be given to personal data. i think that our citizens have the right to data protection and it is our duty as legislators to work with this goal. personal data should only be used to fight against terrorism and organised crime, not on other grounds.
in writing. − in favour. introducing a common corporate tax base is a key measure for ending tax arbitrage in europe as well as reducing business costs, and the ep has today fully backed the proposals to this end. if it is to work, the ccctb has to be binding, and the ep has today underlined this point, calling for a mandatory ccctb for all large enterprises whilst leaving small and medium-sized enterprises the option to choose to apply the common base if they wish. a common corporate tax base would ensure greater transparency of corporate tax in the eu and reduce the scope for tax evasion, as well as reducing the administrative burden for tax-compliant cross-border firms. the ccctb must only be the first step for tackling tax evasion and dumping in europe and must be followed up by a minimum corporate tax rate, both of which together would help end the tax dumping that enables corporations in the eu to avoid up to eur 100 billion in tax payments. the ep has today given a signal in this direction. we now look to the commission and eu governments to be more proactive to this end.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amendment no 39, although the wording is not very good.
in writing. − even though some amendments did not go through as i would have expected, i voted in favour of this important proposal as it is necessary to update the directive and to protect the environment while fostering growth and creating new, additional jobs. i am happy to see that we have voted in favour on the first block and, more precisely, on the energy efficiency efforts demanded in return for the more favourable tax treatment to be coordinated by member states for agricultural, horticultural and piscicultural works and forestry. on the other hand, i believe that protecting and ensuring the proper functioning of the eu’s leading carmaking industry is our responsibility. bearing this in mind, and taking into account the economic turmoil that some member states are facing, i voted in favour of those amendments that protect eu industry and will make it stronger and, on the other hand, those that are in line with efforts to achieve a strong eu internal market while pushing our economy to higher levels of green growth and energy efficiency in accordance with the 2020 strategy.
in writing. − in favour. although insufficient, we consider that this calls on the member states to allocate adequate resources to the national services that are empowered to combat tax fraud and, in accordance with article 65 of the tfeu, in close cooperation with the commission and in liaison with the ecb, to take measures to prevent infringements of national law and regulations, in particular in the field of taxation, and we note that this is of particular importance as regards member states experiencing, or threatened with, serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability in the euro area, as well as recalling the request for increased transparency and tighter control to prevent the use of tax havens, which are foreign non-cooperative jurisdictions characterised in particular by no or nominal taxes, a lack of effective exchange of information with foreign tax authorities and a lack of transparency in legislative, legal or administrative provisions.
we close the explanatory vote. (the sitting was suspended at 2 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
president of the council. - madam president, i have to speak. members of the house! i would like to thank you for your kind words. thank you for the opportunity to participate in the debate on the european convention on human rights. as you know, the treaty of lisbon stipulates that the eu is to accede to the european convention on human rights. the eu's accession to the convention is a very important step for the protection of human rights in the eu. the matter is therefore of particular importance to the european union as such, as it is to the danish presidency of the council. i know that the matter is of course also very important to the european parliament. this is reflected in particular in the declaration of 30 may 2010, in which parliament expresses its clear support for the eu's accession to the european convention on human rights. i am personally pleased that parliament has re-emphasised the importance of this matter by putting it on the agenda for today's sitting. i would therefore like to thank you again for this opportunity to discuss the matter and i look forward to hearing your views on the subject. first, however, i should like to give a brief account of the state of play in the council. since the commission was mandated in june 2010 to negotiate on behalf of the eu with the council of europe member states on the eu's accession to the european convention on human rights, hard work has been done to ensure progress on the matter. as you know, the commission has negotiated on behalf of the european union with the member states of the council of europe. in this context, the commission has been in constant contact with the relevant council working party to ensure that a common position can be reached among the eu member states on the draft accession agreement. the negotiations between the member states of the council of europe and the commission were provisionally concluded in june last year with a draft treaty of accession. however, the council did not reach the necessary consensus on the draft accession agreement. since october last year, therefore, intensive work has been carried out to draw up a compromise proposal. concerns expressed by some member states have concerned in particular the jurisdiction of the court of human rights in appeals relating to the common foreign and security policy. another requirement that has been the subject of extensive discussion is the voting rights of the eu member states in the committee of ministers of the council of europe. the compromise proposal also contains a number of clarifications on the fact that the eu is not a state but an international organisation. as is well known, the council's decision on eu accession will have to be taken unanimously. the presidency has therefore worked hard to draw up a compromise proposal which has been able to meet the concerns that have been raised. in order to maintain the momentum of these very difficult negotiations, the presidency has chosen to put the matter on the agenda of the council meeting next week. we hope that in the light of the political discussions in the council - that is, next week - it will be possible to resume negotiations with the other council of europe countries in strasbourg in the near future. we will continue to work under the danish presidency to ensure progress in the negotiations on the draft agreement and we will of course do our utmost in this respect to reach a common eu position on the text.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, minister, the commission is strongly committed to the eu’s rapid accession to the european convention on human rights. in july 2010 the commission opened technical negotiations on behalf of the union with a group of fourteen experts appointed by the steering committee for human rights of the council of europe. the draft accession agreement is based on five basic principles: accession will be neutral regarding the powers of the union and its institutions; accession will preserve, as much as possible, the existing convention system; accession will be neutral regarding member states’ obligations under the convention; accession will not affect the autonomous interpretation of union law; and accession will be on an equal footing with other parties to the convention. the agreement introduces a ‘co-respondent mechanism’ to apply where member states implement union law and where the applicant before the european court of human rights challenges that law. in such cases the union may participate in proceedings before the court. if the court concludes that there is a violation of the convention, the union will be bound by the judgment and must change its law. the agreement also ensures the possibility of a prior involvement of the court of justice, allowing the european court of human rights to assess the compatibility with the relevant convention rights of the provision of union law which is called into question. the institutional rules of the accession agreement are very important. firstly, a judge will be elected with respect to the union at the european court of human rights, with the same status and duties as the judges elected with respect to any other party to the european convention of human rights. secondly, the european parliament will have the right to participate in electing all 48 european court of human rights judges. thirdly, the eu will have a voting right in the committee of ministers of the council of europe in convention-related matters. there will be adequate safeguards to ensure that the committee of ministers can effectively exercise its supervisory functions under the convention, even when the eu and all member states are obliged to vote in a coordinated manner. finally there will be a flat-rate union financial contribution to the expenditure related to the functioning of the convention, borne by the budget of the council of europe. the results reached so far come very close to the position expressed by the european parliament in its own-initiative report of 18 may 2010. since september 2011, the draft accession agreement has been discussed by the special committee designated by the council. some member states have requested changes to the draft agreement. good progress has been made in solving the issues raised and i would like to thank the polish and danish presidency for their work on this. i would like to stress that the amendments envisaged preserve the overall architecture and balance of the draft accession agreement. the commission, as the eu negotiator, will base itself on the orientations suggested by the special committee when negotiating the amendments to the draft agreement with the non-eu states of the council of europe.
i should like to begin by expressing two thanks: a thank you to the commission, which has just acknowledged that it has negotiated or has relied on a report adopted by this parliament; a thank you to mr kremer, who has always presented the state of the negotiations to the committee on constitutional affairs; and a thank you to the council for taking an interest in this matter and bringing it to the next council meeting next week. i am grateful to the commission for its work and i hope that the commission will be able to take part in the debate on the report. why have we included it in the agenda? because we are deeply concerned about the deadlock in the council. this is an agreement which benefits european citizens, who will, when it is approved, be granted a higher degree of protection of their rights than the union itself currently guarantees them, and it is european citizens who are being limited in the defence of their rights because the process is not moving forward in the council. there have been many negotiations between the commission and the council, and the key issues have been unblocked. there are two remaining, as the president-in-office of the council has said: the question of foreign policy and also the other question referred to, concerning the effectiveness of the common position of the members of the european union in the decisions of the convention. but let us face problems with the spirit of solving them, not using them as a blocking instrument to stop the process from moving forward. it is now more than two years since the treaty of lisbon was adopted and it is time that it was also applied in this area.
madam president, the reason this debate is taking place is that we are facing a double mandate. first of all, a mandate from the treaty on european union according to the treaty of lisbon is not a suggestion. it points to a mandate to conclude the incorporation of the european union into the european convention on human rights. but we are also faced with a negotiating mandate which binds the commission, so that it can actually implement that mandate. the reasons are very good, and they are that the european convention on human rights, as interpreted by the european court of human rights which guarantees it, has contributed substantially to a european legal culture which has improved the lives of millions of europeans who have had their claims before the european court of human rights satisfied, when they had exhausted the judicial bodies which guaranteed them the fundamental rights of their own internal legal systems. we are aware that this poses difficulties. we've been negotiating for a long time now. it is time we executed that mandate and carried it through. the european court of human rights in strasbourg and the court of justice of the european union in luxembourg will have to engage in dialogue, and this will undoubtedly be a complex matter. but what is clear is that this enriches the legal protection of the citizenship rights of european citizens and that it is therefore time for the commission to be fully engaged in resolving, with the council, the obstacles which some member states continue to put in the way of european citizens finally seeing this mandate in the lisbon treaty fulfilled. there is not a single country in the world which has not seen improved attention to human rights guaranteed by the convention as a result of the case law of the european court of human rights and, to the extent that there is an injustice which has been remedied by the case law of the european court of human rights, it must be concluded that the mandate makes perfect sense and it is high time we put it into practice.
madam president, after this debate i wish to express my concern here about the delays in the accession of the european union to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and to encourage the council and the commission to make this happen quickly and effectively. it is important because, firstly, we are talking about the basic values of the european union and a legal obligation which is contained, as has been said, in the treaty on european union. the economic crisis is putting the european social model at risk. we must also show signs of weakness in the area of human rights, which is a sign of european identity. in the process we are also about to worsen the levels of protection of rights that seemed clear and which are threatened by the process of reform of the european court of human rights. restricting citizens' access to the european court is bad news. i think it is serious and worrying that this is happening because of the healing attitude of some states, and that it is being done in a clandestine way, a mockery at a time when we are celebrating the launch of the european citizens' initiative. i therefore ask the council and the commission: what are the real reasons why france and the united kingdom are blocking this agreement?
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, the study that you have requested, focusing on fingerprints for children below the age of 12, is currently being carried out by the joint research centre. the issue of the reliability of fingerprints from elderly people was not included in the mandate and is therefore not part of this study. in order to perform its scientific analysis, the research centre needed reliable data from children below the age of 12 taken twice from the same person, with an interval of at least two years. such data could be provided only by member states and portugal volunteered to provide data from its national passport database. access to the data was granted by the portuguese authorities last november after the conclusion of the appropriate portuguese procedure for ensuring that all the data protection aspects were duly considered. for that reason, the study is not yet finished and the final result therefore not available. there will be an intermediate report presented by the research centre in may this year. it will present preliminary conclusions regarding the evolution of children’s fingerprints based on limited algorithms developed by academia. the intermediate report will be presented to the european parliament by the june deadline specified in the regulation. the final results will provide comprehensive information on the evolution of fingerprints of children under 12 and the technical feasibility of using them for identification and verification purposes. the final report will also include an evaluation of whether the biometric matching algorithms available on the market now or in the near future can be used effectively with children’s fingerprints. the draft final report will be available in mid-2013. based on the final results of the study, the commission will consider proposing amendments to the regulation. regarding the technical issues related to the biometric enrolment process, these issues have been clarified in a decision from august last year amending the technical specifications for passports. requirements for taking fingerprints are clarified by means of an enrolment guide annexed to the decision. the commission, as guardian of the treaty, undertakes tests on member states’ passports’ compliance with this regulation and with the relevant technical specifications. while compliance testing is a standard procedure, it is currently carried out by national accredited laboratories, and the joint research centre has performed and already reported on additional testing of the chips on electronic passports – provided on a voluntary basis because it is the only way we can proceed – by some member states to the commission. further reports will be issued in may this year, including a report on the compliance of the dutch sample passports received. if non-conformity is found, the commission will, of course, take the appropriate measures. we are also conducting a report on identity theft; this we take very seriously and, as soon as that is ready, we will report to the parliament. as to the last question on obtaining authentic documents, this is related to identity theft. we are aware of this type of fraud and we will report on the result of the study as soon as possible and then discuss with you the possible measures to take.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, thank you very much, carlos. we must highlight the progress made in the use of biometric passports, but we cannot deny the problems that exist in their application, especially because of the weaknesses detected in their issuing chain. it would be useless to provide border controls with large technical instruments if the weakness of the system is large in terms of procedures. the balance between the fight against crime in the union, respect for individual rights and the guarantee of free movement in the schengen area is even more important in this case. the falsification of documents, organised crime and terrorism are direct attacks on our citizens, but also on their personal rights, and we must therefore strengthen the whole process of obtaining and processing personal information. we need to give more security to the travel document, establishing a reliable link between the passport and its holder. the evaluation reports are therefore very justified by the repeated fraudulent practice. we look forward with great interest, commissioner malmström, to the interim report announced in june and the mid-2013 report. we must continue to focus on training those responsible and on improving the equipment and interoperability of the documents issued at each stage, without compromising the information and rights of the passport holder. it is very important, madam president, to be able to determine the scope of the issue of fingerprinting of children, which, as has been said, is still under study. i therefore very much appreciate the decision of the portuguese government to give credibility to the procedure.
mr president, like most of my colleagues, i will reiterate the demand of this parliament that we have all the information we need to be able to carry out our work in the best possible way, in a context of difficulties - such as we are experiencing at the moment - and of great uncertainty on the part of the sector, with regard to the reform of the common agricultural policy. and secondly, as early as may 2010 this parliament gave its opinion on this question of disadvantaged areas, and we considered and argued at that time that purely biophysical criteria were not appropriate for the whole framework of the european union. i therefore want to reiterate today the opportunity to study the incorporation of socioeconomic criteria, because there are many rural areas in the european union which are currently facing the brink of disappearance due to depopulation. we cannot turn our backs on the reality of rural depopulation and we should therefore incorporate this criterion.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, you are here at this late hour to discuss this amending budget. above all, it is a miracle that the commission, together with parliament - and i congratulate its rapporteurs - has managed to find this eur 1 300 million and, moreover, that this eur 1 300 million does not come from a 50% revision and another 50% redistribution of heading 1a, but has had a higher percentage of revision than that corresponding to redeployment, which means that they have been able to twist the arm of the council by asking for new financial needs, for new financial commitments, new money, fresh money. that is what parliament has always called for, because if we did not do that, we would be making a bad budgetary policy. it is true that we will have problems finding €360 million in commitment appropriations for next year without damaging the projects already under way in the heading, and we will also have problems in payment appropriations, but in any case i think we are approaching the 2013 budget in this area with a very positive spirit. i do not understand the criticism of some political groups who use the crisis as a justification, as my colleague on the left said a moment ago. it is not, the iter project is a flagship project of the european union that is going to give us energy independence. we are asking the members of the european parliament to be able to see beyond the next five or ten years, to see beyond budgetary needs. i think this is a very big mistake and i hope, in any case, that the iter project will remain in good health and that in 20, 30, 40 years we will have sustainable and clean energy. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue card question. mrs durant, i am very surprised that a representative of the green group should tell me that we must be down to earth and look at the realities, because part of her political project is precisely to look for new energy sources, new alternative forms of energy production. this is an alternative way - which you will more or less like - but in any case it can be a solution for european energy independence. simply because of the support and technological development that this project can produce, i get the feeling that 1.3 billion euros is now a very cheap investment.
mr president, let us be clear: it is no coincidence that the majority of the victims of climate catastrophes are women. it's about vulnerability. and it is precisely this vulnerability that is the answer to a structural problem, structural patriarchy, of which we have heard some very clear and very worrying arguments in this parliament. the proposals made in the kiil-nielsen report are simply common sense in today's world, they are basic needs, they pose a fundamental challenge: 1) to increase the capacity and empowerment of women in decision-making, in all areas; 2) to move from being victims to being actors, is what the report is calling for: to move to invest more in training, protection and preparedness; 3) in a very clear way, to incorporate gender perspectives into policies to combat climate change. common sense, plain and simple. and the reactions we have heard from some colleagues simply take us back two or three centuries.
i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs kiil-nielsen, on this excellent report. women, as the rapporteur said, are much more affected by climate change. climate change is also caused by the failure to comply with environmental instruments. the climate is also changing because of the lack of political support. the climate is also changing because of the lack of responsibility in the world and in europe. i'll give you a very concrete example from everyday life in my country: this is the case for women in the fishing industry. it's these women who catch the shellfish. climate change is made worse by the fact that governments don't clean up their act. these women don't get any benefits. these women can't work because the coast is not clean. that is why i support this report, because it supports the implementation of these environmental commitments which affect women so much.
madam president, i would like to join those who support mr gerbrandy and the report that has been drawn up, because i think it is a good report. i would like to focus on two specific points: one of them is support for the need for a soil directive, which i have always supported in this parliament. the other is to echo the commission's call for it to take very seriously the call for it to speed up the recovery of lost time in the area of legislation to eradicate invasive species. all of it, but most of all, seriously. because of the 11 000 exotic species that have crossed the borders of the european union, 15% are invasive species that are destroying, for example, the most important palm grove in europe, which is in the city of elche, the red beetle, which is destroying the ebro delta park, where farmers contribute to the ecosystem by growing rice. in short, if we are to be confident that, after the utter failure we had in 2010, we will have to show a lot of will for 2020, the commission will have to put its batteries on, to heed this report, which is a good report, which is concerned about the future of the next generations and which contains very concrete measures, which only need to be structured, so that the protection of our biodiversity is not a joke, but a very serious issue that this parliament must address as the representative of the citizens of the whole of europe.
the commissioner speaks eloquently of defence and of his commitment to protecting biodiversity. the commissioner, and the rapporteur, are in favour of this important instrument, the natura network. i come from a country that is very rich in biodiversity, a green country, an agricultural and maritime country, galicia. the commissioner has received many parliamentary questions from me. the commissioner is talking about providing the natura network with political commitments and funding. does it intend to enforce the relevant european legislation so that responsible - but often irresponsible in practice - administrations comply with it? that is the case in my country. unfortunately, the cases of non-compliance with the natura network, both in terms of conservation, the expansion of protected natural areas of species, protected natural habitats, provide, in many cases, an irreversible environmental degradation, fires, prestige and serious situations such as the installation of large-scale aquaculture plants in green marine spaces.
mr president, one of my first initiatives as a member of this parliament was to ask the commission why it did not intend to continue the sixth action programme. at that time there were some who said that with the instruments and authorities we had it was enough and that it was possibly not needed. today, with three months to go - as mr leinen has rightly said - this parliament is calling on the commission to tell it that we need a common nexus of community policies, a common environment house, a reference point, as the action programmes are, and that without it we cannot function. i was recently in catalonia, and i was able to follow the recycling of refrigerators, for example, on the ground, and i was very happy to see that 95% of them can now be recycled. the whole of these recycling and waste policies need to be coordinated - paragraph 32 says it right - if we are to achieve 100% recycling. if we are to be consistent with the 2020 objectives, we clearly need an action programme like the one proposed, and we need it as soon as possible. i am glad that one of the proposals is that the programme should help to ensure adequate funding for r & d & i. in this context, i take this opportunity to denounce those governments which, under the pretext of the crisis and the instrument of austerity, are preying on scientists and researchers by cutting back on r & d & i and, therefore, cutting back on the future of this europe. we should say that austerity and the crisis are not justification, they are not alibis, and that the action programme to support the financing of r & d & i must be based on political will and tremendous ambition.
in writing. − against. this draft amending budget (dab) no 1 for the year 2012 concerns the financing of iter, and incorporates into the 2012 budget the amount of eur 650 million in commitment appropriations onto budget item 08 20 02 euratom – european joint undertaking for iter – fusion for energy (f4e), in accordance with the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council in december 2011. it is thus a purely technical translation of this agreement. as we have consistently opposed iter and especially the increased funding, we reject dab 1 as well.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on education by mr tőkés which aims to increase spending to modernise education systems as a key to social change. in an economic crisis, it is necessary to demand new measures to modernise education systems in europe, as this is a sign of courage. it is an investment in human capital in the countries of the european union. nations like galicia, which see their young people migrate in search of training and work beyond our borders, need an education system that provides them with tools of critical analysis and knowledge appropriate to a context of global change. in the meantime, the spanish government is reducing public investment and raising university fees by as much as 65%, placing it in last place in public investment in europe. an example which goes against what is advocated in this report.
in writing. − in favour. the report is well balanced, especially with regard to the combination ‘business’ and ‘higher level of education’, prudent about the wording of ‘knowledge alliances’ and ‘sector skills alliances’, specifying that the role of higher education institutions is to develop curricula to address skills shortages, incite business and entrepreneurs to develop partnerships by providing high quality internships. it is interesting that there is insistence on a better governance system, including all stakeholders in universities and being transparent as to the different cooperation systems, ensuring independence of action and mission. some recommendations are made in order to ensure a better gender balance, with flexible time arrangements. the target should be broader than just making people immediately ‘employable’ and the report reminds us that universities have a duty to provide general tuition with a humanistic dimension open to all at all times of life (insisting particularly on vocational training like ‘leonardo da vinci’, which is about to disappear in the commission’s proposal for the new education programme ‘erasmus for all’) and adding up a special euro-mediterranean dimension for mobility.
in writing. − in favour. egovernment was a major component of the eeurope, eeurope+, eeurope2005 action plans and of ‘i2010 – a european information society for growth and employment’ policy framework. according to the ninth benchmark measurement report the average availability of online public services in the eu reached 82% in 2010. the best performers are austria, ireland, italy, malta, portugal and sweden. the report shows that services for businesses are more advanced than those for citizens. a competitive digital market needs cutting red tape, and public services needed to start up a company available in a streamlined way. 55% of services required to start up a company are provided either through a dedicated portal or automatically in austria, denmark, estonia, ireland, sweden and the uk. only 46% of useful services for the unemployed are currently delivered through a dedicated portal. concerning the online sophistication of 20 basic services, malta, portugal, sweden, austria, slovenia and estonia are the leaders.
in writing. − i very much welcome this public stance of parliament in favour of e-government. as i stressed in my amendments, e-government is key to improving the competitiveness of our smes and promote innovation. it may be a great help in reducing public expenditure and achieving fiscal consolidation targets while at the same time enhancing the quality of services and improving their results.
in writing. − in favour. in our text we have clearly stated that we wanted the european parliament to call for an opening of a humanitarian corridor in order to help tens of thousands of people displaced by fighting in mali, many of whom have sought refuge in neighbouring countries like niger, mauritania and burkina faso. we also wanted parliament to call for a comprehensive and rapid response to the sahel humanitarian crisis as a whole; to call on west african governments to fight against proliferation of arms and drug trafficking by putting balanced and sustainable development at the heart of their development policy, to provide basic public services to the population in general and employment for the youth in particular; and to call on the authorities of mali, west african governments and the tuareg national movement for the liberation of azwad to do their utmost for the immediate release of all hostages.
in writing. − once again an african country suffers a coup d’état that hampers its democratic development and its economic progress. i would like to support this resolution calling for a regional solution, but at the same time i am not satisfied with paragraph 4. we have had very little time to study the tuareg revolt and its declaration of independence, and i do not think it is right to deny them the right of self-government and auto-determination. i know that this revolt has been violent and there remain many unanswered questions, but i would like to say that once democracy and the rule of law are re-introduced in mali, the tuareg issue should be tackled, if necessary with a referendum on the independence of northern mali.
in writing. − in favour. it is time to urge the burmese government to undertake further steps as proofs of their genuine engagement for the democratisation of the country. the european parliament thus calls in particular for a swift and unconditional release of the remaining political prisoners, allowing international and local humanitarian organisations unhindered access to conflict areas, reforming laws that penalise free expression and allow censorship of the media, and repeal of the 1982 citizenship law.
in writing. - i'm against it. we are facing an example of blatant neoliberalism, namely state-protected companies that destroy the social and environmental rights of argentine citizens, and two countries that are fighting over control of oil instead of cooperating to deal with the huge global climate crisis. both sides would do much better to invest massively all the economic, political and diplomatic resources possible in the promotion of clean and renewable energy and in a reduction of dependence on fossil fuels. the basic problem is therefore to find the energy and economic development model that is to be promoted. i think it is very interesting that the european parliament is debating this issue, but i would like it even better if president rajoy appeared before the european parliament to explain the measures he has recently taken, such as cutting more than 10 billion euros in education and health, and which, yes, have a great impact on the lives of citizens throughout the state. i am very much afraid that this matter is going too far for him precisely because he does not deal properly with the major problems we currently have on the table.
in writing. − in favour. we believe that, in order to make eu development policy more coherent and more effective, the commission services within the eu delegations should contribute to development aid policy-making and be in the lead for its implementation; repeats its call on the commission to appoint policy coherence for development (pcd) focal points in each delegation to monitor the impact of eu policy at partner-country level; in the report we also call on the commission and member states to make greater efforts to improve links between eu delegations and bilateral agencies and partner governments and other development groups such as think tanks, universities, foundations, ngos and sub-national authorities, since closer ties will maximise the comparative advantages of the devolution process and of the different actors within the national context, while avoiding unnecessary duplication of effort.
in writing. − in favour!!!!! climate change and its impacts are by no means gender neutral. due to gendered roles, women’s impact on the environment is not the same as men’s, and their access to resources and ways to cope and adapt is severely affected by discrimination in terms of income, access to resources, political power, education and household responsibility. we therefore need to take women into account at every stage of our climate policies, and in the following aspects: adaptation policies, mitigation policies, financing of these policies and political representation of women. the proportion of women in climate change negotiations is still unsatisfactory, women account for only 12-15% of heads of delegation and around 30% of the delegates. links between gender and climate, although they appear clearly in developing countries, also exist within the eu, e.g. in energy, transport and agricultural sectors. the future green economy relies on overwhelmingly male-dominated industries, which affects equal opportunities in occupation, education and training and encourages ‘male-only’ business cultures incompatible with the implementation of gender equality.
in writing. − i want to show my support for this report. whilst i am not a fervent feminist, i understand the fact that the worst consequences of climate change will be felt in less developed countries, and that gender inequalities in such countries are a very relevant factor in the equation. moreover, i feel that it is of the utmost importance to empower women with regard to disaster management, taking into account the terrible cost in human lives that natural disasters related to climate change produce.
in writing. − in favour. during the international year on biodiversity (2010) we heard the most beautiful declarations from political leaders all over the world on the huge importance of biodiversity; about the crucial role it plays for mankind. but as they were speaking the eu’s strategy to halt the loss of biodiversity in 2010 failed completely. as they were speaking, species were being lost 100 to 1000 times faster than the natural rate. as they were speaking they failed in all attempts to agree on measures to fight against climate change. somehow, the warm words on the importance of biodiversity have not translated into strong policy measures. but the statistics speak for themselves. 60% of the world’s ecosystems are degraded or used unsustainably (fao, 2010); 90% of our fish stocks are over-exploited; and 25% of all european species are threatened with extinction. according to the un study, the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity (teeb, 2010), we lose 3% of worldwide gdp each year due to biodiversity loss. the costs of inaction are many times higher than the investments needed now. the need for urgent measures seems to be clear.
in writing. − the strategy for biodiversity is one of the key policies for green growth that we should push forward as one of our main priorities either in the eu, as voted in this dossier, or – i add – in all of the international agreements that we have to sign. in fact, without respecting and protecting biodiversity in the eu, there is no future. the heritage that we will leave to our families is the respect for our environment, and learning about it should be – as mentioned in the dossier – another policy that we ought to pursue without delay.
in writing. − in favour. we did not table many amendments as the rapporteur had already produced a very good draft. most of our amendments were adopted or integrated into compromises. we highlighted the fact that key decisions with a strong impact on the environment are likely to be taken prior to the adoption of the 7eap (mff, cap, cfp, horizon 2020), and that environment protection needs to be fully integrated. we called for full implementation of eu environment legislation also in times of austerity. we also raised issues with regard to sustainable use of land, more action on biodiversity protection, sustainable chemicals policy and action on endocrine disruptors. several of our amendments that tried to strengthen the link to effects on health were not successful.
in writing. − establishing priorities for the upcoming years at eu level has wide-ranging effects, not only with regard to the 27 member states, but also – and no less importantly – to the rest of our neighbourhood in this interconnected world. thus, i voted in favour of all amendments and in favour of the report, which is in line with the strategy of taking ambitious and realistic action towards achieving the programme. responsible economic growth should – in the 21st century – be part of every policy, and not only those related to environment, in order to ensure that our heritage is respected and that the world is protected for our descendants.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are living through a great controversy which has as its essential reference points the concepts of austerity and growth. if you listen to the noise that is forming, it would seem that the idea of growth was a luminous invention of these days. nothing could be further from the truth. since 1997, europe has been governed by what is precisely called the stability and growth pact. this is why a large part of the policies implemented by the european institutions - such as cohesion, regional and research policies - are growth-oriented policies aimed at the development and well-being of citizens. so, and i am addressing the commission and the members of this parliament who have the greatest opportunity to make themselves heard, there is no complex on our part in this debate, which we can face with our heads held high. this is my minority opinion among the unsubs.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i very much welcome the opportunity to take part in this debate which precedes your vote tomorrow. it goes without saying that i also welcome the fact that this dossier has been brought to a successful conclusion, and i would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to ms niebler as rapporteur. further work on completing the single market is a top priority at a time when the eu needs to stimulate growth and create opportunities for employment. that is why the danish presidency is investing so much time and energy in the single market and the digital single market, including in key areas such as telecoms and the information society. services provided by modern electronic means of communication such as mobile devices are now straggling the boundaries between telecommunication and the information society. web access, mobile applications and the transfer of data and images are increasingly concerns. they are the drivers of those rapid advances in technology which are changing the very way we think about information transfer. at a time when markets and jobs are increasingly global in scale, it is vital for businesses and consumers to be able to use a full range of services accessible via mobile phones, tablets and other devices, irrespective of their location. they need to be able to access these services when travelling and wherever they are conducting business. it is therefore essential for europe’s competitiveness that we create as seamless a market as possible for such services. that means improving the conditions for roaming and bringing prices closer to those of the domestic markets. this is a process that has been under way now for several years. significant advances have been made through a series of important steps. today we have reached the third step, with the roaming iii regulation. on behalf of the council i would like to welcome the agreement reached with parliament on this important issue. it will help ensure lower prices for roaming customers by introducing greater competition in the roaming market. this is something which is particularly welcome to those in europe who depend on cross-border information transfer for their businesses and for individual use. it is important that, with close cooperation between the commission, the council and parliament, we have managed to cover all the key elements in the original proposal, including price caps on all the services that are available through roaming. in our view, the agreement before us respects a set of essential principles, including the need to have an agreed text in place by 1 july of this year: the requirement for the new regulation to be technology-neutral rather than to make technology choices which could soon be out of date; the commitment to ensure that the structural solutions of the new regulations lead to more competition and thus – hopefully – even lower prices for eu citizens in the medium to longer term; the need to continue with a price cap mechanism as a temporary safety mechanism for as long as is necessary for the structural solutions to take effect; and the need to fully involve the body of european regulation for electronic communication in the technical implementation of the regulation and maintain consistency with other relevant legislative or political contexts such as the regulatory framework for electronic communications or the digital agenda for europe. europe’s citizens will be able to take advantage of this new regulation very shortly. it will save them money and increase their access to a wider market. that has to be a positive development. it is a sign that the institutions of the european union are working for the direct benefit of our citizens. by way of conclusion i would like to thank both parliament and the commission for the excellent cooperation during negotiations. i would like to express our gratitude to the chair of the committee on industry, research and energy; the rapporteur, ms niebler; and the shadow rapportuers for the excellent way in which they have handled these important negotiations. tomorrow this parliament will vote on the regulation. if endorsed, it will bring direct benefits to europeans. it is an important step which will ensure that consumers will enjoy even lower roaming prices, while at the same time it will stimulate much needed competition in the area and thus increase europe’s competitiveness and encourage growth. this is what europe needs: concrete results for the benefit of our citizens, creating growth and jobs.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, mr schuman would be proud of this institution, together with the council and the commission, delivering results that can be recognised by the citizens. i want to start by paying tribute to angelika niebler, who has done an extremely good job with her team-mates. the danish presidency took everything into account to fulfil what we had in mind, delivering results before the conclusion of their very fruitful presidency. it is perhaps one of those examples in which we can prove that together, and in a european context, in a digital single market we can make it easier for citizens to travel and also take into account everything connected with travelling. with this new roaming regulation – and hopefully the voting tomorrow will be positive, but i am sure that will be the case – the basis of the commission’s proposal is recognisable in this regulation. let me remind you what is at stake. these days – as angelika has already said – mobiles are everywhere. people expect to use their phones wherever they go, especially across internal borders, which are supposed to have disappeared. we are talking about a borderless europe. a europe of smartphones, data tablets and data online content means a tremendous boom in mobile data. in that context high roaming charges are an irritant for a citizen and also an obstacle to a single market. people are fed up with nasty surprises when they open their bill. today we can put an end to them once and for all, for voice, text and data. we can show how the eu protects citizens’ interests. that is what mr schuman had in mind. the agreement we have in front of us will do this in three ways. firstly, we now have a future-proof solution. injecting competition into the roaming markets will mean, for the first time ever, a structural and sustainable way to protect consumers because competition is the best guarantee of long-term low prices. under the new rules mobile users are empowered to pick the roaming provider right for their travel needs, separately from their domestic provider. so this is a big step forward. companies will be able to compete through innovative services, which is also a big step forward. secondly, also for the first time ever, we are tackling data roaming. people who want to browse abroad should not be held back by a fear of high charges. angelika mentioned that this should be a signal for us, and what is at stake with this proposal, which will be much more acceptable. high charges are a constraint on citizens, on businesses and on economic growth. this agreement removes that constraint on all of three, by capping data charges and by letting people choose their data roaming provider, perhaps just as easily as they choose a wi-fi network. thirdly, also for the first time ever, we are extending protection beyond the eu, with better on-the-spot information and warnings about roaming charges, to avoid nasty bill surprises when you get home. we can deliver this with this agreement too. of course you should not see this agreement in isolation. roaming is just one piece in a much bigger story. we are promoting competition and lower consumer prices – as we have done with mobile termination rates and continue to do in telecoms markets. we are putting europe at the forefront of the data revolution, through access to cheap data, as we could also do with our proposals to open up public sector data – a great challenge in front of us. we are building a digital single market with consistent rules so that europeans can easily enjoy great content, wherever they are and whatever device they are using – as we will be doing through our proposals on the cloud, data protection, e-id and many more. i hope with all those we can enjoy a success like the one we are celebrating today. this is a stimulus to do a lot more for the consumer. what does this mean for a family for example? a family will save over eur 200 on their summer holiday compared with 2007 prices. this summer holiday a business person will save more than eur 1000 per year. data prices are kept for the first time so that you can use your maps, facebook and videos at a fair price. overall there is a saving of 75% compared with 2007. yes, you heard that right – a 75% saving. price caps will be in place until 2017 and there will be full competition from 2014, when choosing a roaming plan will be like choosing a wi-fi network. this is the proof that the eu is good for citizens. we are putting money back in your pocket and making markets work fairly. this is also good for businesses because it lowers costs. for the mobile operators the better prices will attract new customers and grow the market. we have ended the rip-off once and for all. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, allow me to begin by congratulating mrs niebler, also on my part, on her very professional and excellent handling of the third regulation on roaming on public mobile communications networks in the union, now known as 'roaming 3', which has been so successful for parliament. it has not only been a success in my view, because of the substantial reduction in the ceilings that mobile operators can charge consumers when they are in another member state of the european union, but the proposal for a regulation which we are going to vote on in this plenary session also includes other measures, such as the extension of the transparency clauses to european consumers going to countries outside the european union. but above all, the greatest merit of the 'roaming 3' regulation is, in my view, its intention to disappear and create a competitive market for roaming services, where it will no longer be necessary to regulate every two years a situation specific to 27 different markets, but that of the single market which the european union should represent. this regulation which we are voting on tomorrow will not only set new maximum rates for mobile operators when european consumers travel outside the european union, but for the first time we are tackling the situation in a much smarter way, in my view, by establishing a competitive market. if the structural measures proposed in the regulation are successful, european consumers will have the option of contracting roaming services from a different operator than the one providing mobile services in their country, and this in a simple way and keeping their telephone number. it is an essential contribution to the development of the digital single market.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when confidence in the european project is not at its best, i believe that this new regulation on roaming is an important step forward. the crisis and the response to it are alienating a citizenry which, in order to regain confidence in this common project, needs to perceive the benefits that europe can offer. if we want a europe without frontiers, we must not only allow free movement - which some have recently questioned - but we must also facilitate it. that is why my group has advocated from the outset the creation of a single market for mobile communications. from the beginning of the review of this regulation we have advocated that roaming charges be equated with national charges, thus putting an end to the discrimination that exists. our position has led to the end of this discrimination being included for the first time as the ultimate objective of the regulation of roaming. in the short term, prices for calls, sms and data roaming will be progressively reduced considerably. consumers will pay 65% less for roaming charges in 2014 than they do today. they will also have more options to choose between operators thanks to the new structural measures introduced. however, for my group, these measures are still transitional. we will continue to monitor closely to ensure that the measures introduced have the desired effect and introduce more competition in the roaming market. if not, i can tell you that we will continue to demand in the 2016 review that the commission proposes further measures for the achievement of a true single market for mobile communications that provides consumers with the right benefits. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. in short, it is an opportunity we must not miss to make further progress in this common project in which we believe, namely the european union. i would like to congratulate mrs niebler, mr goebbels, mrs merkies and all the other colleagues who have made this agreement possible.
commissioner, rapporteur, where i come from, on the border between galicia and portugal, there are many voters who call every day to say that they suffer from the problem of roaming charges: even telephone operators change without moving from one country to another. consumers and workers moving across europe's internal borders and receiving exorbitant invoices. we are talking today, on this europe day, about the communication frontier and the price disparity. we're talking about a breakthrough in the regulation on phone and data roaming. i would therefore like to welcome this regulation, madam commissioner. i welcome the fact that they are tackling the lack of competition, the monopolies, giving consumers more choice, also fighting against cost disparities. but this is still not enough. we need to facilitate more fair pricing and communicate across borders: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation.
mr president, this debate does well to remind the european parliament that it is part of its role to define a policy to deal with the migratory challenges and to build a european policy for the management of the union's external borders. and to do that, we must listen and know: we must listen to the national authorities of the member states, who are the first responders to the migratory challenge; we must also listen to the frontex agency, which was set up for that very purpose; we must listen to the humanitarian organisations, which are dealing with such sensitive problems as have emerged; but we must also listen to the immigrants themselves, who are suffering from the knowledge of europe at the door they are knocking on. and that is why the delegation from the committee i chair, the libe commission, travelled to lampedusa from 24 to 26 november 2011, to remind us that we cannot allow the states that face the external border to feel alone in dealing with the problem. i'm a canary and i know what i'm talking about. in malta, italy, spain and the canary islands, they know the need to build a genuine policy of solidarity. and for that to happen, it is essential that the solidarity mechanism provided for in community law has all the necessary instruments to serve it better, which means strengthening frontex. it also means that the multiannual financial framework provides for the items and funds needed to meet humanitarian needs, and it means that the council is doing its part by pushing forward the asylum package, which is being negotiated in trilogue at this very moment, while at the same time giving full substance to the solidarity clause referred to in article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and in the treaty of lisbon.
mr president, the european economic crisis has no power to deter illegal immigrants who risk their lives at sea. why would you do that? because the harsh situation they find here is not comparable to the conditions there. there is also the question of asylum, which goes beyond and has nothing to do with purely economic or other situations. asylum must always be equal to protection. i welcome mr iacolino's initiative as very appropriate and i say that it should be extended and reproduced every year, but in december. the phenomenon of springtime sea-going is not new - it is predictable - and while it cannot be avoided, it can be mitigated. the member states alone cannot control the mediterranean or the atlantic front. a pre-planned, solidary, intelligent and diplomatic timetable is needed to do just three things: first, to try to prevent them from leaving at their origin; second, to patrol, rescue and assist those who have managed to leave; and third, to welcome those who have managed to arrive in dignified and humanitarian conditions. it must be a coordinated task between the commission, the member states, frontex and third countries. it is not an easy task - i know that - but we must not have an extemporaneous debate every year which is relatively effective. i would remind you that the origin of this discussion is the parliamentary delegation sent to sicily and lampedusa almost six months ago. then there is the question of the iecs and administrative detention centres, which must improve, without any doubt or reservation, the conditions of their reception and stay, and the question of legal, safe return and resettlement subject to scrupulous respect for human rights. as you can see, what i am saying is not a matter which concerns one country or another: it concerns the whole of the union and we must all commit ourselves to giving an adequate response to this humanitarian challenge. we say it late, but it's better to say it than not, and it's appropriate to do it on may 9th.
i remember the words of mr miguel portas, who said with great dignity that in lampedusa he felt that it was worthwhile to be a member of parliament. it is the duty of the european parliament to denounce this disgrace of europe and it is the joint responsibility of the european union to remedy it. where is our memory? in response to the xenophobic political groups in this house, the history of europe is the history of migrants. for centuries, thousands of people have fled europe in search of better living conditions or hope. many left for europe, but many also left for other continents. what european country has not had, throughout its history, moments of enormous difficulty when many of its citizens had to seek refuge beyond its borders? we need to integrate these people. it is a moral imperative for europe! we need to report that there are children who are held alone in foster care or in prisons, as young as eight years old. a european solution is urgently needed.
mr president, my group's position has already been set out by mr murphy in his speech and i believe, mr president, that the european union is not here to advise any region of the world on any economic or trade model. we are not here to give advice, much less advice based on the need to deregulate the market. that principle, that dogma, the 'great god' of market deregulation, which has been applied with total rigidity in the european union, is leading us to ruin in the european union and, therefore, that principle is a principle that should not be raised, and i hope that the protagonists of the arab revolutions do not make it their own. it is not a question of going to free trade agreements which do not take account of asymmetries, since that would further impoverish these peoples. and you see, the visiting card that was given to the riparian countries in their day - the visiting card given to ben ali, mubarak or gaddafi, the one we gave to mohammed vi - is that the european union cares little for economic development. all he cares about is big business.
mr president, the arab spring is a historic milestone which must serve to move our neighbouring countries forward on the path of democracy, respect for the fundamental values of human rights and a free society. we must make the most of this moment to strengthen trade relations with these countries, contributing to development and economic progress on both sides of the mediterranean. it is a key moment to make progress in opening up the markets for goods and services and to establish a framework guaranteeing legal certainty for investments and the adoption of environmental, phytosanitary and social standards that benefit citizens on both sides. however, any proposal concerning sensitive sectors must be preceded by appropriate studies and impact assessments. we must be cautious in sensitive sectors of the european union, such as agriculture, which is already making enormous efforts, leading in some cases to the abandonment of crops. for this reason, the spanish delegation of the group of the european people's party has requested a split vote in paragraph 19, removing the reference to 'the eu being prepared to make additional efforts in sensitive sectors such as agriculture'.
mr president, there is a before and after of the arab spring - many speakers have said so. there is a commitment to help democratization in these countries of the southern mediterranean, in these countries which are still in the process of transformation or are in a tunnel, which is stagnant or which cannot get out of it. there is a need to use trade agreements as a lever for change, to help democratization and stabilization. as the rapporteur has said, the amendments that have been tabled, the human rights clause, democratisation, sustainability and corporate responsibility are indispensable conditions that any agreement must include, and although we are facing a new generation of trade agreements - which started with morocco - within the framework of bilateral negotiations, it must be recognised that there are certain sensitive aspects - such as agriculture - and that not all eu countries suffer with the same impact from the negative consequences that these trade agreements may produce. we are therefore in favour of these bilateral agreements and this new generation of agreements, but we want to see the reciprocity clause that must be included in bilateral agreements, impact studies and, above all, the study of ways or instruments of burden-sharing within the countries of the union. i think we must also address the problems that arise within the countries of the union with regard to the more sensitive aspects such as agriculture, the selfemployed and small businesses, especially in the countries that suffer most from these problems within the union.
mr president, interinstitutional balance is a reference which is required by the treaties and proclaimed as a fundamental political issue by parliament, the commission and the council. i would like to denounce, mr president, as a repeated attitude, the insensitivity of some commissioners of the european commission, who do not have an opening in their agenda to attend to requests for interviews or meetings with members. i will not mention names or specific cases today, but i think that mr durão barroso - who has always set an example of collaboration with parliament and its members - should send a clear signal to the college of commissioners that meetings at the request of members should be given priority and be held frequently. the reasons are indisputable, to protect the collaboration and interinstitutional balance so often proclaimed, and for the due respect which this house so much deserves.
i hope, mr president, that the commission and the council have taken note of the results of the french and greek presidential elections, because they have become a real challenge to the economic orientation of the european union. this is the perception of a very large part of the electorate in the union who do not understand, do not understand how, at this moment, the european union is literally leading them to ruin, that is, to the welfare values of the 1930s or 1940s. i therefore believe that it is time, ladies and gentlemen, to urge the institutions of the european union to correct this economic policy in due course. a single currency without a public treasury is unsustainable; it is unsustainable that the european central bank cannot be controlled; it is unsustainable all that market deregulation means and that the european union does not have strong instruments to intervene in the economy and to activate the economy against the stability pact.
mr president, today is europe day, it is a day of solidarity. europe is solidarity when it also provides health and social cover for the weakest. the crisis and austerity measures are again the perfect alibi to demonstrate the hypocrisy of governments that break equality, for example, in access to health services. i would like to draw attention to the serious situation in spain, where the health card of foreigners living in irregular circumstances has been withdrawn, an example of social exclusion and a lack of respect for human rights. in providing health care, distinguishing between legal and illegal status and differentiating between races is discrimination contrary to human rights. neglecting the most disadvantaged people who, for example, need dialysis or cancer or aids treatment is discrimination. the health of the most vulnerable must be a right that gives europe dignity, and any limitation is a limitation of rights.
mr president, bankia will be nationalised this week by the spanish central government and eur 10 billion of public money will be used to bail out this bank. spain’s prime minister, mr rajoy, has for many months repeatedly denied that this would happen in spain and has refused to bail out some catalan saving banks such as catalunyacaixa and unnim. however, madrid’s bankia will be saved with public money despite its bad management and its close involvement with the bursting of the housing bubble in spain. this is happening at precisely the same moment as regions are being obliged to cut eur 10 billion in education and health. the spanish government will cut transfers to regions in order to cut basic social services and save a bank that has failed. the commission should examine this nationalisation carefully. no discrimination between citizens should be tolerated in eu countries.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, mr jørgensen, and the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive approach to the proposal. following fruitful cooperation between the three institutions, i believe we have reached our common objective and a good and reasonable outcome which the commission can accept. however, the commission would like to make a declaration on the external representation aspects to ensure that the provisions are interpreted in coherence with the treaty and to avoid legal uncertainty. the declaration states, and i quote: ‘the commission observes that the title of article 5 refers to the participation of the union in the convention, whereas paragraph 1 speaks more broadly of participation in the convention, which shall be a joint responsibility of the commission and the member states. it recalls that the commission represents the union, under article 17(1) of the treaty on european union, in areas that do not come under the common foreign and security policy. accordingly, the commission considers that the joint responsibility of the commission and the member states mentioned in article 5(1) does not refer to the representation of the union, as could possibly be derived from the title. rather, article 5(1) must be interpreted in the light of the division of competences between the union and the member states established by the treaties.’
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i think the arguments are clear. in two weeks nothing irreversible is going to happen and nothing really very important is going to be delayed. and yet we have the opportunity to increase the consensus on this report, which, as mr verhofstadt has pointed out, has been dealt with in an excessively hasty manner. we're just asking for a little time to find a bigger deal.
the current airport model in many member states favours the concentration of central structures in large airports, encouraging a radial model, as is the case with madrid airport, and leaving airports such as those in my country, galicia, in a peripheral situation. a model which therefore favours centralism. small airports should be seen as economic agents that link territories socially and territorially. airports which must be managed in an integrated, networked, radial, decentralised, polycentric system, which makes it possible to diversify several air routes by means of the complementarity and intermodality between airports and railways, so that peripheries, which are considered peripheries from a socioeconomic point of view, cease to be peripheries.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution on the future of regional airports and air services in the eu because it sets out concrete formulas for optimising the use of these infrastructures, aiming to integrate them as an active element in european transport planning. we particularly like the reinforcement of these airports' intermodal connections - mainly by rail and road - to avoid overcrowding of other airports that are more congested. the report also contains very important information for us, such as the treatment of regional airports in the air transport of goods. i believe that it also prevents absurd waste like that which has occurred in spain with the airports of castellón and guadalajara. finally, it offers concrete solutions to the problems posed by the intolerable behaviour of low-cost airlines, such as the 'single bundle' or the controversy over the public subsidies they receive for operating at certain airports. we also fully agree with the treatment of airports in the outermost regions.
mr president, i was the alternative rapporteur for my group and i voted in favour of the resolution on piracy in the indian ocean because it proposes fair, feasible and sustainable solutions to tackle this problem. for one thing, it maintains protection for all vessels, including fishing vessels, in this area. in addition, it denounces the harmful effects that piracy has also for the local population and is committed to interventions on land to solve the problem of kidnappings at the source, neutralizing the logistical bases of those who commit them and preventing them from being a simple and viable business. this is also a complementary measure to the european union's humanitarian aid and political and social stabilisation in the area. finally, i would like to draw the attention of the member states to the fact that the resolution calls on them to ensure that the measures relating to the protection of the fleets comply with the imo recommendations. in terms of quality/price, military professional escorts are, due to their experience, legal status and integration with the atalanta device, more efficient than private companies.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it proposes to apply customs duties to products from countries with non-market economies.
in writing. − in favour. it was necessary to amend article 9(5) of the basic anti-dumping regulation with a new text: ‘an anti-dumping duty shall be imposed in the appropriate amounts in each case, on a non-discriminatory basis on imports of a product from all sources found to be dumped and causing injury, except for imports from those sources from which undertakings under the terms of this regulation have been accepted. the regulation imposing anti-dumping measures shall specify the duty for each supplier or, if that is impracticable, the supplying country concerned. suppliers which are legally distinct from other suppliers or which are legally distinct from the state may nevertheless be considered as a single entity for the purpose of specifying the duty. for the application of this subparagraph, account may be taken of factors such as the existence of structural or corporate links between the suppliers and the state or between suppliers, control or material influence by the state in respect of pricing and output, or the economic structure of the supplying country.’
in writing. − the eu and the russian federation have had an agreement on trade in certain steel products since 2001, concerning the management of certain restrictions on imports of certain russian steel products. since russia joined the wto in december 2011, the eu has lost the right to apply these restrictions. the eu is proposing to repeal the regulation, as maintaining it would be a violation of wto rules. the report notes that russia's entry into the wto will bring benefits to the eu as it will have freer access to the russian market. in addition, the lifting of restrictions and the full opening of the market will lead to increased offshoring as steel products produced in russia will be cheaper in europe. i have therefore voted against.
in writing. − in favour. with the accession of russia to the wto in december 2011, the eu needs to align specific regulations it maintained bilaterally with the prevailing wto law. one such regulation concerns quantitative limitations on imports of certain steel products, especially flat-rolled sheets, from russia which have been in existence since 2007 (ec regulation 1342/2007). steel imports from russia account for about 25 % of all eu steel imports, half of which are semi-finished products input into the eu steel industry. in turn, half of this half has so far been subject to import quotas (around 1.5 mio tonnes of steel). quantitative restrictions were in place to protect the eu steel industry. the end of quantitative import restrictions will reshuffle the eu’s steel-industry landscape somewhat, since russian flat-rolled sheets are less expensive than sheets made in the eu. however, this will be compensated for by better access to steel scrap from russia and lower tariffs for eu exports of finished steel products to russia.
in writing. − this report proposes that the electronic version of the official journal (oj) of the eu should become the official version, the authentic, up-to-date and complete version, rather than the printed version, which will become legally valid only in exceptional or temporary cases of unforeseeable disruption of the electronic version. this amendment proposed in the report strengthens legal certainty and has a significant positive impact on the environment, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − in favour. consent should be given to this proposal for a council regulation in order for it to enter into force as soon as possible. the council text provides for a welcome reform of the way in which the official journal is published, as it provides for increased legal certainty and better access for citizens to legal acts of the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it calls for an end to the proliferation of unnecessary and inefficient regional airports. in spain in particular, this practice has been very common; public administrations in recent years have launched massive works, creating regional airports that are now ghost airports, with the increase in the public deficit that this has entailed. the text also calls on the national authorities to monitor possible commercial abuses and the working conditions of airport staff. the report calls for the correct application of european and national legislation on social and working conditions in airlines to be ensured so that staff hired at a regional airport are not subject to social dumping. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − against. in the framework of a commission communication on airport capacity, linked to the airports package, the british part of the ecr insisted in the committee on transport and tourism (tran) on producing an own-initiative report on regional airports, i.e. to demand more support from the eu for regional airports. the report does indeed put the focus on more support for regional airports, such as considering them in the ten-t regulation, but not applying the eu’s safety and security or environmental rules. it stresses the economic importance of these airports for the regions concerned, repeating the motto of ‘growth and jobs’. we (greens/efa) tabled amendments on 2020 targets for co2 emissions, connecting regional airports as much as possible with rail therefore, with the intention of obtaining a modal shift towards rail. we also proposed more coordination, cooperation between trans-border airports in close proximity to each other and better insight in eu co-funding in their favour. unfortunately our formulations were rejected by the tran committee. no amendments being possible for the plenary vote, we were forced to vote against this report during the single vote in plenary (rule 138).
in writing. − i very much welcome today’s vote on the future of regional airports! as a catalan with an important ‘regional’ airport like barcelona and other minor ones such as lleida, girona and reus, i believe that the role of such airports should be recognised fully. however in these times of severe economic crisis, i would like to underscore the importance of cost-benefit analyses when constructing new regional airports in spain, as public investments should display a certain relationship between the amounts of money spent and the number of passengers using these airports. i strongly believe that regional airports should not be tools to enhance public deficits and should be economically sustainable in the mid-term.
in writing. − as a democrat, i have always said that more transparency means better democracy. i voted in favour of these amendments and this discharge because they tend in that direction. the committee of the regions has a long way to go, so it is our duty to protect it and give it more political power as an institution, strengthening its role as a third chamber to represent the european regions effectively at the heart of europe. this will, at the same time, improve our policy making by promoting a ‘bottom up’ approach.
in writing. - on amendment no 14d, i abstain because too many issues are mixed up so i am in favour of the 'merger' of agencies but not the cuts in research. i am voting in favour of amendments nos 44d, 47d and 12d because this may have a negative impact on the agencies in some countries, such as spain.
in writing. − abstention. in this case, some clarifications needed to be made, so i voted in favour of postponing the discharge in order to have a bit more information.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the european institute for gender equality. but i also voted against considering merging the institute with the eu fundamental rights agency, because i believe that european leadership in building equality requires strengthening the work of the institute so that it can continue to drive cross-cutting action in all european and international arenas.
in writing. − in favour. discharge is the final approval of the eu budget for a given year (following the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts). it is granted by parliament on a recommendation from the council. discharge equates to approval of how the commission implemented the budget in that financial year and the closure of that budget. the decision is based on a review of the annual accounts, the court of auditors’ annual report (including its official statement of assurance) and the commission’s responses (answering specific questions and providing further information requested). discharge is the political element of the external control of budget implementation, as it represents oversight by parliament and the council of the eu.
in writing. − in favour. parliament wants to stress that the global financial crisis, and in particular the euro-area crisis, which the eu is now facing, call for special measures to be put in place in order to ensure adequate protection of eu financial interests in terms of revenue, which is directly linked to the financial interests of the member states. parliament is of the opinion that a more rigorous implementation of fiscal policy has the potential to lead europe out of the crisis, in particular by decreasing the size of the eu’s shadow economy, estimated to be at around one fifth of the official gdp.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to ensure that there is clearer regulation of the cost of internet services and mobile phone calls between different eu countries. the new rules will also allow customers to use a different company than their usual operator for roaming services abroad, retaining the same number and without penalty. i think it is a step in the right direction for what european policies should be, which ultimately affect the daily lives of citizens.
in writing. − in favour. the objective of reducing the difference between national and roaming tariffs, which was included in the commission’s benchmarking framework 2011-2015, endorsed by the i2010 high level group in november 2009, and included in the commission communication ‘a digital agenda for europe’, should also remain the goal of this regulation. the planned separate sale of roaming services and domestic services should increase competition, and therefore lower the prices for customers and create an internal market for roaming services in the union with no significant differentiation between national and roaming tariffs. union-wide roaming services can stimulate the development of an internal telecommunications market in the union.
in writing. − i have always stuck to the premise that less regulation and better regulation should be our goal when we legislate. roaming has been a very sensitive issue for many years now, and the prices have been too high for our citizens. given the importance of having a strong single market to boost the economy, roaming charges should be based on market prices. i voted ‘yes’ to better regulation and better protection for users, as well as the fair charges that service providers deserve.
in writing. − in favour. the key points in the commission proposal are: a) to widen the conditions under which exports can proceed in the absence of a reply from the importing country (chemical has been used in the importing country in the last five years and no regulatory action has been taken); b) to give the commission exclusive competence for external representation in accordance with the lisbon treaty; c) to involve the european chemical agency (echa) in certain administrative tasks. point a) was suggested in response to complaints from eu traders concerned that they could not proceed with exports due to lack of prior informed consent (pic), even when this lack of pic was allegedly due to the administrative incapacity/unwillingness of the importing country to react, even though the substances were often not banned/restricted in the importing country. as greens/efa, we tried to get rid of the wider conditions and to introduce further safeguards in case exports proceed without pic.
in writing. − in favour. as regards delegated acts, the new rules provide for changes in the procedures to be followed and deadlines to be met by the committees involved (including in cases where rules 50 and 51 applied for the adoption of the legislative act) and/or by the groups when tabling motions for resolutions to object to delegated acts, revoke a delegation of powers (the two possibilities laid down in article 290 tfeu) or on the contrary, and in exceptional cases (notably in cases of urgency), give rapid approval prior to the deadlines. as regards implementing acts, the new rules need to take into account transitional provisions governing revision of the existing basic acts based on articles 3, 4 or 5 of the old comitology decision. this means that during the time needed to bring the existing legislation in line, a number of legislative acts will continue to be covered by the old procedure. for the greens/efa, this ensures proper procedures within parliament so that both all the committees involved and the groups can effectively exercise the new rights for parliament deriving from the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - this report proposes an addendum to the regulation on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations (rome ii), which basically tries to clarify what the law applicable in cases of infringement of personality rights is, in case a person who considers that his rights have been violated by something published, printed or on the internet, chooses to take action via civil liability. this amendment is necessary because today there is too much ease for claimants to bring defamation actions in the jurisdiction which, at the same time, seems to them more likely to obtain a favourable outcome, giving rise to the phenomenon known as 'defamation tourism'. the amendment to the regulation more clearly defines the rules, such as the applicable law of one or another country depending on the publication of printed material. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the rome ii regulation currently lacks a provision for determining the law applicable to violations of privacy and rights relating to personality. in this context, the report calls on the commission to submit: a) a proposal designed to add a provision to the rome ii regulation to govern the law applicable to a non-contractual obligation arising out of violations of privacy and rights relating to personality, including defamation; and b) a proposal for the creation of a centre for the voluntary settlement of cross-border disputes arising out of violations of privacy and rights relating to personality, including defamation, by way of alternative dispute resolution.
in writing. − the report's core reflects the eu's liberal approach: it characterises the upheavals in the region as "an opportunity to open up the region's economies and create a true market economy". the report also welcomes the opening of deeper and more comprehensive free trade area negotiations with egypt, jordan, morocco and tunisia, as well as the role of the european investment bank (eib) and the european bank for reconstruction and development, which have played (and still play) a role in the privatisation processes in those countries. it is precisely because of the spirit and demands of the arab spring, because of the role played by the eu in the region, because of its complicity with dictatorships, because of the fragility of some north african states still, that i voted against, because i believe that the recipes being proposed will boost the prosperity and stability of the region. and because the eu is taking advantage of the weakness of some of these states to impose free trade.
in writing. − abstention. the greens have a rather critical stance to the fta policy in principle. in the mediterranean, the sustainability impact assessment (sia) commissioned by dg trade for the euromed fta project has – along with problems of the environmental carrying capacity of the basin – indicated increased social hardships in the short to medium term, which could be detrimental to the democratic aspirations of its people. however, the greens accept that in the eu’s neighbourhood, countries will need to be aligned to the eu economy. in this sense, a reasonably timed dcfta approach might be the right way ahead. this is surely true for the devastated economies of the eastern neighbours.
in writing. - although i do not entirely agree with some of the points made in the report on property rights, i voted in favour of the same because i consider the resolution to be generally positive, as it seeks to prevent abuse of the rules of patents in relation to living beings and biological processes. the defence of the impossibility of patenting agricultural processes gives farmers a guarantee to be able to continue using agricultural processes without being dependent on multinationals. it is necessary to ensure the free flow of scientific information and to prevent the obtaining of disproportionate profits from biological processes.
in writing. − in favour. the main objectives of our group were: 1) to protect farmers and breeders from the burden of paying fees to patent holders or being prevented from breeding activities by patent holders who have been granted patent protection when this should have been excluded; and 2) to draw attention to the need to follow closely the european patent office’s practice in granting patents, as the office too often appears biased in favour of patent applicants in its interpretation – also – of directive 98/44.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this resolution for several reasons. first of all because i think it is fundamental to ensure that plant and animal varieties and essentially biological processes for the production of plants or animals shall not be patentable. secondly, i am satisfied to see that patenting processes that come from genetic engineering are protected. thirdly, i see that the resolution includes provisions to ensure that patenting doesn't hamper innovation and further research. in this sense, giving support to exclude breeding processes from being patentable is a step in the right direction.
in writing. - i voted against the solution to the problem of piracy in the horn of africa, which cannot be a military solution. i reject any possible mission under the european security and defence policy (esdp) in somalia or in the region. the council and the commission should review their political strategy on somalia and end the eu navfor-atalanta operation, which can be considered a failure in view of the increasing number of attacks and violent acts. the commission and the council should take a holistic view of the situation in somalia and, most importantly, should focus on the need to address the humanitarian situation on the ground and to address the real causes of the disaster that is causing the suffering of millions of somalis, including extreme poverty, illegal fishing and overfishing in somali waters.
in writing. − against. although not surprisingly, many of our amendments were defeated so we had no other choice than to vote against the text of the resolution, which is too focused on a purely military approach to the situation.
in writing. − we all agree that there should be a free and safe circulation in national and international maritime routes, a premise that is not being respected by piracy in different parts of the world. as a democrat, i welcome the eu’s efforts to fight against piracy, and i am specially satisfied because we are doing steps forwards to solve this situation from its main cause: piracy exists because of there is poverty in many countries. that is why the eu authorities have increased its provision of humanitarian assistance to people in need in these countries, in order to provide the local population with alternative livelihoods through which they can properly sustain themselves. for all these reasons i will support this joint motion for a resolution.
mr president, this afternoon's debate is not new, nor is it a problem exclusive to romania, the czech republic and bulgaria, but it concerns all the states of the union. today these three countries are concerned, but at other times it could be any other country, as has happened. in fact, this chamber, in its declaration of 8 march 2011, already asked the commission to establish a new mechanism to ensure full reciprocity for all states, thus ensuring that, if a third country fails to comply with the reciprocity of the visa regime, all member states will establish the visa requirement for the citizens of that country. the principles of reciprocity and solidarity must guide the community's visa policy, and they must also be respected in other debates, such as the present one on the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the european union and canada. only then will we have a strong, rigorous, credible, supportive and community visa policy. i am also aware of the importance of the external relations of the union and of each of its countries, and that is why a balance must be struck between respect for the principles of reciprocity and solidarity and european trade relations. as you know, this problem has been discussed for almost a year in the libe committee, through a proposal to amend council regulation (ec) no 539/2001 establishing the list of third countries whose nationals are subject to the visa requirement for crossing the external borders and the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from that requirement. i am the rapporteur for this legislative initiative. the aim of this proposal is precisely to provide the union with an effective and realistic mechanism to resolve conflicts such as those currently being suffered by the romanians, czechs and bulgarians with canada. we started the negotiating trilogue phase with the council a week ago, but i have a strong mandate on reciprocity. the libe commission is committed to and demands that reciprocity. the position of the three institutions and parliament is in a state of convergence, but we are all aware of the urgency and the need to find an agreement that satisfies the interests involved. i do not think, commissioner, that we can reach this agreement with the danish presidency. you know that parliament only says 'yes' or 'no' to an international agreement. i will say 'no' and recommend 'no' to my political group if canada does not exempt czechs, bulgarians and romanians from the visa requirement before the vote. mr president, mr enciu's argument is a very strong and impeccable one.
mr president, in the basque country, the eurobask association adopted a manifesto on 9 may in which we basque europeans renewed our commitment to the european project. we need a europe that puts citizens at the centre of the integration project rather than markets; that advocates an alternative to the management of globalisation, leading multilateral bodies capable of regulating the financial market. we want a european economic government that will return the financial system to its traditional role of supporting the efficiency of the productive economy as a generator of social welfare. this requires combining debt reduction and increased competitiveness with maximum r&d&i drive, especially towards the low-carbon economy and renewable energy. we need to free ourselves from dependencies, accelerate growth and employment and establish new instruments of cohesion; more dialogue, more common foreign policy and a firm 'no' to the discourses that criminalise minorities and immigration: equal human beings in rights against ethnic cuts. in short, a new europe that is once again a benchmark in training and a social model; a union for living, useful and just.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are hearing more and more about the cases of stolen babies in spain, or, as they prefer to be called, 'appropriate children': between 200 000 and 300 000 babies between the 1940s and the early 1990s. authentic plots, in which religious, doctors and officials were involved; in its beginnings, plots loaded with ideology, where the children of political prisoners and republican women were stolen to give them to conservative families. these plots soon became purely economic plots, as fernando tena, a sociologist and expert in this historical drama, testifies. they believed they had the moral authority to decide to take babies from mothers with no resources and give them to conventional families. now, about a year ago, it has begun to see the light thanks to the tireless work of the associations of stolen children, to whom i want to express my utmost respect and encourage them to continue their work. i call on the spanish government to ensure that justice is done in each case and on the european union to continue its efforts in the fight against trafficking and human trafficking. i shall end, mr president, with a word: time is of the essence. there are many parents who will not have the chance to find their children.
the rapporteur. - madam president, let me first of all thank all my colleagues and especially the shadow rapporteurs for their help in drawing up this report, which has made it much stronger. we all know that this year marks the 20th anniversary of the launch of the single market, which must be the engine of economic activity and growth in europe, the key to overcoming the crisis and achieving the objectives of europe 2020. in these eight years, the construction of the internal market must be made compatible with its development, with a broad framework for consumer protection, with growth and rights that generate dynamism and confidence, with transparency - a basic principle of democracy and good governance to which commissioner barnier referred this afternoon - and with cooperation between the commission and parliament. it is now time to develop the regulatory framework for the protection and empowerment of consumers and particularly vulnerable consumers. we know that the diversity of vulnerability situations, both endogenous and exogenous, makes it difficult to adopt a comprehensive legislative instrument. this requires us to approach the problem of vulnerability from a cross-cutting analysis which takes into account the different needs, capacities and circumstances of consumers. the commission, aware of the current shortcomings, has focused its strategy on improving consumer information and education. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of consumers in the context of cross-border online shopping. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is protected, and that the consumer is protected in all the member states. the commission has also taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is protected in all the member states. the financial services industry is therefore called upon to step up its efforts to provide comprehensible, truthful information, with plenty of clear explanations and using straightforward language about the nature of the products and services it offers; the food sector, in relation to advertising for foods high in fat, salt and sugar, by informing children and young people, who are the most sensitive to the advertising of these foods; the transport sector, which often continues to face difficulties when vulnerable people travel; the energy and telecommunications sector, where lack of transparency in some cases causes added difficulty for consumers, for example in the energy sector, in determining the tariff that best suits their needs; and access to justice, where consumers may find it difficult to access existing mechanisms. the commission and the member states are therefore asked - and i would like to call the attention of the spanish minister of justice, mr gallardón, to the fact that he is not going backwards in his rights and going against the tide of these difficult times - to put intelligence and good governance in favour of alternative dispute resolution in consumer matters. finally, i would like to say that any of us is liable to become vulnerable consumers and i thank all the alternative rapporteurs for their help in strengthening this report.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i welcome the fact that this parliament is focusing on the issue of small and medium-sized enterprises. given the current difficult economic climate, it is all the more important that smes, which are the principal contributors to our economies, are provided with a climate in which they can flourish and grow. you have chosen to focus this debate on two specific issues: that of access by smes to structural funds and that of the definition of smes. both of these have been the subject recently of oral questions to the commission. in fact, it is correct to address the commission on both these issues and i am sure that the commissioner will be able to respond in more detail to the particular points which i know are of concern to this parliament, to the commission and, of course, to the council. as far as the presidency is concerned, i would like to share with you a number of points which are important to the council. firstly, smes are the backbone of our economy. they are the drivers of wealth creation and of our ability to adjust flexibly to changes in demand, and are a major source of employment. that is why smes have been at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy. at a time when more than 25 million people are unemployed, we need the smes to generate jobs, especially for young people. smes draw valuable support from the structural funds. indeed, over the period 2007 to 2014, smes will have benefited from these funds to a total of eur 70 billion. this financial support helps strengthen the competitiveness of smes. during the credit crunch, ensuring that smes have access to adequate finance has become even more important. for this reason a number of schemes guaranteeing loans to smes have been extended, and there are several new initiatives designed to provide smes with interest-rate subsidies and to increase the credit ring-fenced for smes. financial instruments constitute a rapidly growing and effective form of support for smes from the structural funds. they complement grant financing and are more sustainable because the money can be recycled and used again in the future. venture capital and loan funds are also indispensable for smes. in addition, smes benefit from financing through the european investment bank, which provides loans at advantageous rates. these constitute valuable financing mechanisms offering a flexible approach that is an alternative to either grants or loans from commercial banks. a further valuable source of funding comes from the various initiatives set up jointly by the commission and the eib. the financial instruments known as jeremie, jessica and jasmine are designed to improve smes’ access to finance by providing equity, loans and guarantees. on the matter of the definition of smes, i am aware that the commission is preparing a survey to assess member states’ opinions on the current definition and whether it could be beneficial to change it. in the council we have not yet had an opportunity to discuss this issue and we are looking forward to receiving the commission’s survey. that said, it is important to note that the current definition means that 95% of all companies in europe are smes. it therefore seems natural that we have a thorough discussion and a proper analysis on a possible change of the definition, and we also look forward to hearing the opinion of parliament and discussing this issue with it. mr president, honourable members, commissioner, the focus of your interest this morning is the issue of access to finance by smes – and rightly so, given the current economic climate. i would like to close by emphasising that, while access to finance is, of course, extremely important, smes also need a favourable business environment in which to be able to develop. the small business act, adopted in 2008, has been key in helping smes, through the creation of a comprehensive policy framework. in conjunction with this, many member states have taken steps to help smes – for example through the establishment of one-stop shops for people starting up businesses – but we must all remain particularly vigilant so that we continue to provide smes with a proper environment in which to grow, and so that we simplify the business environment and reduce the burden of red tape on all businesses.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. smes are at the heart of the european economy. we have a total of some 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises in europe. this is 99.8% of european companies. the competitiveness of our smes is therefore a key factor in europe's growth and future competitiveness. the crisis has hit smes as hard as it has hit everyone else. it is generally the smes that now have greater difficulties in obtaining credit and borrowing capital. there is therefore a public responsibility to help smes not to become victims of credit bottlenecks but to realise their innovation potential to the full. this is why the european commission has repeatedly taken action in recent years to improve access to capital for smes. adapting existing programmes in 2010 and 2011 has increased the available funding for financial instruments such as loans, guarantees to more than eur 8.1 billion the level at the end of 2010 . 300 different instruments were financed in the member states. more than 90 000 jobs have been created directly as a result. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank parliament once again for the rapid, strong and sustained support for the amendment of our regulations which has been necessary over the years to respond precisely to these challenges, to declare working capital eligible for funding, for example in the area of revolving funds, and thus also to make a substantial contribution to overcoming the crisis, particularly in some member states. in january this year the commission, together with the member states, made a further attempt to adapt the programmes so that the funds still available were used specifically for the creation of new jobs, but the subject of combating youth unemployment was also part of this initiative. the point is that this reallocation, as far as the available resources allow, should be directed mainly to smes, because they are the ones who can create jobs in europe in a sustainable way. i would remind you of this picture: we have some 24 million unemployed, 23 million smes. so, to put it simply, if every sme took on an unemployed person, we would have almost solved the problem. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. for the next programming period, the commission has put a clear emphasis on smes in the structural funds. 80% of erdf resources in the more developed regions and 50% of erdf resources in the less developed regions are to be used for these priorities, namely innovation in smes, renewable energies, energy efficiency. the 50% in the less developed regions is higher in absolute terms than the 80% in the well-developed regions. this is a clear priority, a clear signal to improve the competitiveness of smes. to this end, we must of course also work together to facilitate the administrative access of smes to structural fund funds. i would therefore like to thank the european parliament for the many proposals it has made to further simplify administrative procedures. at the same time, i would remind you that many of the administrative challenges are at national and regional level. we will, for example, make the implementation of the small business act subject to ex ante conditionalities, or at least that is what we have proposed. we need a joint effort at european level and in the member states in the interests of our smes. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by smes. you know that the european commission regularly reviews this definition and that another independent evaluation is currently under way, which will also take into account the number of employees and the turnover limits. we expect the results of these investigations in the early autumn of 2012. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. in the last few weeks and months there has been much talk about growth and new growth impulses. i am clear: if we want to stimulate sustainable growth, we must start with our smes and strengthen their competitiveness. the commission is prepared to do so.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament mr president, commissioner, the role of small and mediumsized enterprises is vital to the economy of many countries, countries which are suffering enormously from the economic and financial crisis. the large involvement of small and mediumsized enterprises, generating jobs, is even more important for sectors of the population such as women, immigrants or young people, who are currently unemployed at 40 or almost 50% in many member states. the high unemployment rates require the political class, all of us, to increase the competitiveness of this economic sector in europe. small and medium-sized enterprises with high debt in europe in recent years. we believe that in fact 85% of all jobs created in the european union were created by small and mediumsized enterprises, especially by new firms. but we consider that they have a heavy administrative burden. the next reform of the cohesion funds must therefore make it possible to provide for specific programmes to boost the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. we need to speed up the mechanisms for coordinating the different administrations, with innovative measures, with facilities and new technologies, to show the potential of small cross-border businesses, to take risks, to open up the market, to support small and mediumsized enterprises to combat the crisis and the lack of employment.
mr president, we are grateful for the opportunity to discuss this subject at the european council and the importance of smes in the european economy. in the face of the crisis, economic growth must be encouraged and the labour market boosted: 23 million smes are our concern, they are the economic backbone, as the commissioner said, the engine of job creation. there is a commitment to have more credit and less bureaucracy by june. and we are at the door of the new council at the end of may. i ask the council: what has been done to mobilise the structural funds, to ensure better access to credit for smes? what measures are being taken to support micro-enterprises? i would like the council to take action in the face of a crisis situation as serious as the one we are experiencing.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with this debate in this house today and with the resolution that will be adopted next, we have wanted to underline the importance of this eu-ukraine association agreement in the european perspective of this country and - as has been recalled in this debate - an essential element of this agreement is a democratic clause on respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms, the rule of law, the rule of law and respect for the rules of the democratic game. it is clear that the trial, conviction and humanitarian situation of yulia timoshenko and others flagrantly violate the spirit and the letter of this democratic clause. this parliament must therefore show its solidarity with these people, demand that their rights be fully respected, firmly condemn the use of force - as has been observed - and, of course, allow the opposition leaders, many of whom, like yulia timoshenko, are currently imprisoned, to take part in the next elections. i therefore agree with the commissioner, mr füle, that the association agreement cannot be signed in these circumstances and that parliament should certainly not ratify it. secondly, i believe that, without calling into question the holding of the european football championship, which is also being organized by poland - and i am addressing myself to you, commissioner - the european union should try to give an articulated response, since we are supposed to be trying to establish a common foreign and security policy, so that the representatives of the european union and its member states can act in a homogeneous, articulated way and from a common position.
mr president, the consolidation of democracy, human rights and the rule of law is particularly important in our neighbourhood - as is clear from article 8 of the treaty on european union - and ukraine is a neighbouring european country with which we have concluded negotiations on an association agreement and which has what we call a 'european perspective'. the level of human rights standards must therefore necessarily be very high. i am concerned about the lack of political will on the part of the ukrainian authorities in this matter. this is illustrated by the case of mrs yulia timoshenko and other opposition leaders, who are victims - as has been said here - of selective justice and the soviet-era penal code. it seems that its ambiguity allows the distinction between political responsibility and criminal responsibility to be almost non-existent. a democratic system cannot work like that. fundamental rights must be protected and political opposition must logically be respected. i also think it would be very desirable if the european union could reach a unanimous position in the near future on the level and form of attendance of senior political leaders attending the euro cup matches next month in ukraine. and finally, ladies and gentlemen, i was somewhat surprised to read that the president of this house received the prime minister of ukraine last week. since the council and the commission did not do so at such a high level, i wonder whether we are coordinating ourselves properly in the union's institutions, and i would be grateful to mr füle, commissioner, if he could explain to me whether such coordination exists.
in writing. − in favour. the lack of mandatory provisions for the issuance of euro coins may result in different practices among member states and does not achieve a sufficiently integrated framework for the single currency. in the interests of legal transparency and certainty, the commission therefore deems it necessary to introduce common binding rules on the basis of article 133 for the issuance of euro coins. the commission’s legislative proposal aims in particular at establishing specific provisions for commemorative euro coins so as to ensure that such coins remain a minor percentage of the total number of two-euro coins in circulation. at the same time, these limits on volume should allow for the issuance of a sufficient volume of coins to ensure that commemorative coins can circulate effectively. it also aims to establish specific provisions for euro collector coins, which are not intended for circulation and which should be readily distinguishable from euro circulation coins. euro collector coins should have legal tender status only in their member state of issuance and should not be issued with a view to their entry into circulation. in addition, euro collector coins are accounted for in the volume of coins to be approved by the european central bank (ecb), but on an aggregate basis rather than for each individual issue.
in writing. − in favour. the own-initiative report on the internal security strategy follows and should be read together with other own-initiative reports in the internal security cluster on organised crime (alfano/alde, resolution p7_ta-prov (2011)0459 adopted on 25.11.2011), which led to the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering (crim), and on counterterrorism (in ‘t veld/alde, resolution p7_ta-prov (2011)0577 adopted on 14.12.2011). in recognising that the eu has an additional value in ensuring a high level of security, we should not go along with the dominant discourse that there can be no individual liberty without us all becoming ‘pre-suspects’ and having to accept ‘continued and comprehensive state surveillance’ (as exemplified by the data retention directive, and the pnr, tfts and borders package proposals) to ensure collective security. the starting point should be an individual’s liberty from the state, and justification of law enforcement measures in the sense of them being both necessary and proportionate in a democratic society. now that there has been a (partial) transfer of sovereignty from the member states to the eu in the area of justice and home affairs we need to redefine ‘checks and balances’ to ensure security measures respect individual freedoms in a supranational context.
in writing. − in favour. the report’s cautious approach to the development of eu criminal law deserves support, given the impact on the rights of suspects/accused persons and convicts and respecting the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. such a cautious approach also fits with our general preference for crime prevention over repression. approximating criminal law among the member states is a very difficult task given its close relationship with social and political choices and the direct impact this has on people’s liberties. furthermore there are differences in the levels of sanctions and prison regimes (including which part of the sentence is actually served). therefore here, more than anywhere else, it is important that the legislation containing criminal definitions and sanctions is crystal clear and not open to differences in interpretation, something which is often resorted to in political compromises among the member states (practice of constructive ambiguity). a coherent approach based on the principles mentioned in the report needs to be followed from the moment eu legislation is envisaged until the moment the draft legislation is negotiated between parliament and the council and then implemented in the member states.
in writing. − in favour. the creation of a strategy for strengthening the rights of the most vulnerable consumers, in order to permit their participation in the single market, contributes not only to the social inclusion of such consumers and to advancement toward a more just and tolerant society, but also to ensuring a more dynamic, safe and competitive interior market. however, this specific protection of vulnerable consumers should not, in any case, lead to the creation of two different levels of protection.
in writing. − in favour. the second nle report (under ep consultation) is based on article 128(2) and is completely uncontroversial. the commission proposal specifies a certain number of technical characteristics such as the number of stars in euro coins as well as information procedures between member states related to coin issuance. a final agreement was reached on the cod file in which a few specifications on technical definitions are made as well as a provision requesting the commission to conduct an impact assessment of the continued issuance of 1 and 2 cent coins. that impact assessment shall include a cost-benefit analysis which takes into account the real production costs of 1 and 2 cent coins set against their value and benefits as well as on the possible issuance of eur 1 and eur banknotes. following this impact, the commission shall draft a report setting out the advantages and disadvantages of issuing eur 1 and eur 2 banknotes. in addition, each participating member state may only issue one commemorative euro circulation coin every six months, (rather than every year).
in writing. − although this is a minor legislation, i welcome that it includes my suggestion to bring 1 and 2 cent coins into the political focus, as their social impact is quite low and may cost more than they are worth. the impact assessment will provide for a more thorough analysis on their issuance in order to decide on their viability in the future.
in writing. − in favour. the european union is currently undergoing the worst economic crisis since its inception. this crisis threatens the very basis of europe’s economy. the internal market is the best tool we have to restore growth to the member states’ economies. we are currently at a time of historic milestones for the single market. 2011 saw the adoption of the single market act and the organisation of the single market forum in kraków where the european institutions, the member states and the main stakeholders showed their commitment to a better functioning internal market. 2012 will mark the 20th anniversary of the single market. let us take this as an opportunity to put our heads together and overcome the obstacles that are holding us back from realising the full potential of europe’s internal market. citizens are the ultimate beneficiaries of a well-functioning and fully operative single market. and it is our duty as legislators to deliver on their behalf.
in writing. − the enhancement of the single market is for me one of the key policy developments at european level. the implementation of best practices into all member states will not only create a level playing field but also increase their competitiveness vis-à-vis the rest of the world. i support this resolution as i am very much in favour of building a stronger scoreboard to oversee the actions of member states that fail to transpose or comply with european legislation. the case of spain is in that sense an example of what should not be done. the directive on late payments has been widely violated and has worsened the crisis in spain by destroying thousands of jobs and enterprises due to late payments from the public administration.
in writing. − i voted in favour. europe is going through a transformation in order to return to the pre-crisis growth path and raise its potential to go further, with the europe 2020 strategy. one of the priorities at the heart of europe 2020 is inclusive growth with greater involvement of women, as europe will need all its women by 2020 for a competitive european economy. in this regard, the report invites turkey, as a candidate country, to support the gender aspect of europe 2020 by committing to achieve actual gender equality, since turkey too will be facing similar challenges in its ongoing effort to achieve further growth.
in writing. − the situation regarding women’s rights and gender equality in turkey has been improving – particularly over the last 5 years – but not as quickly as we would have wished. full gender equality has therefore not been attained yet. it is something that will only be attained when the mentality of turkish society, and chiefly of turkish men, changes completely. i agree with the rapporteur that the first initiatives should be taken by politicians and the media, but obviously there is a lot of transversal work to do, and it is important to make a special effort on education, in the labour market and in penal legislation, because all violence against women has to be punished without exception. the turkish government should adopt a zero-tolerance policy towards violence against women. with turkey a candidate country, i will give a vote of hope to turkish women and encourage its government to adhere to the gender aspect of europe 2020.
in writing. − i voted in favour. the regulation on the citizens’ initiative (procedure file no 2010/0074(cod) was adopted on 16 february 2010 and applies as of 1 april 2012. it allows for the submission to the commission of initiatives by union citizens for any appropriate proposal on matters where citizens consider that a legal act of the union is required for the purpose of implementing the treaties, and which has received the support of at least one million signatories from at least one quarter of all member states. the regulation provides for organisers to present the initiative at a public hearing. according to article 11 of the regulation, the commission and parliament shall ensure that this hearing is organised at the european parliament, if appropriate together with such other institutions and bodies of the union as may wish to participate. for our group, it is vital to ensure workable rules that allow for the proper organisation of the hearings, and proper involvement of the petitions committee, where desired, and to avoid a mix-up or alteration of current decision-making powers within the house.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are almost all agreed that the way out of the crisis is through austerity and reforms to boost growth. we must not fall into the false debate between austerity and growth: austerity is a key and necessary instrument to achieve the objective of economic growth. spain is an example in this respect, it is an example of a country committed to fiscal consolidation and a country committed to reforms. to do this, europe must focus on articulating fiscal policy measures that guarantee both austerity and growth and job creation, but more than ever it also needs the european central bank to push forward a monetary policy that will accelerate the effects of the structural reforms it has undertaken. the 'policy mix' is of key importance today more than ever. the fiscal measures adopted must be backed up by a more relaxed monetary policy to enable these measures and reforms to take effect as soon as possible: more than 20 million unemployed europeans are waiting. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question of the 'blue card'. mr zalba, in this debate there has been a lot of talk, on the one hand, about the spanish case and, on the other hand, about the need for measures that can serve to recapitalise and re-stimulate the spanish economy. the spanish government has recently rejected one of these measures in a very strong way, namely investment in renewable energy. we have also learned in recent days that mr rajoy does not agree with the eurobond proposal either. my question is: if these are the proposals that are coming to us from certain important places, from brussels or the european communities, what proposal will the spanish government bring to the council tomorrow?
answer to a blue card question. mr romeva, the spanish government has not rejected any investment, as you have said. and the spanish government is not against eurobonds. the spanish government has said that a preliminary step, namely fiscal consolidation, is necessary before the introduction of eurobonds, but the spanish government is in favour of eurobonds, so that there can be no doubt.
mr president, because of the most serious crisis the european union has ever suffered, the most extraordinary crisis, twenty successive councils have been described as 'extraordinary' to the point of trivializing the adjective, because they have not produced results that have alleviated the malaise, which is indeed extraordinary. they've lost the taste of being late, insufficient, fragmentary, because they've been unable to compose either a plan or a narrative. a sum of measures does not make a plan, and to achieve a plan and a narrative that is able to unfold over time, that does not impose untenable conditions on impossible deadlines, the first thing is to fill the invocation of growth, which has become an empty shell, with content. and that requires the mobilisation of all available resources: the financial stability mechanism, the remainder of which has not yet been used, but also the structural funds, the remainder of which has not been used. secondly, it must be made clear that a fiscal pact is not just a budgetary corset to reduce expenditure but the guarantee of revenue, and this requires lightening the burden of debt by increasing the firepower of the european central bank, but also by setting up a european treasury which issues eurobonds to rationalize the partial mutualisation of the member states' debt, currently called 'sovereign', and which also ensures the necessary revenue, through the innovation of the resources under discussion: the financial transaction rate, the direct fight against tax fraud and the eradication of tax havens. because only then will we be serious when we talk about the light at the end of the tunnel, saying how much it will cost us, so that the phrase "how much it will cost us" does not invoke only sacrifices, but the resources needed to serve and fulfill the objectives with which we fill our mouths.
madam president, madam commissioner, the proposal to extend the directive on protection against discrimination is very interesting; it is very important to unblock it in this respect. i am proud to belong to the lgbt intergroup in this parliament and to be a member of the european parliament who fights against homophobia. hatred, intolerance, humiliation, the use of sexist language, verbal and physical violence, dismissals, discrimination must be fought with education, with freedom of expression and assembly, with tolerance and respect and with equal treatment. every two days, a person is killed in the world because of acts linked to homophobia; in the world, more than seventy countries still persecute homosexuals and condemn them to death. that is why europe must continue along this path of guaranteeing the rights and fighting discrimination against lgbt people. finally, and especially for the defenders of their rights, our full support.
rapporteur. − madam president, last january a bluefin tuna caught off the coast of north-eastern japan reached a record high in the first auction of the fish market in tsukiji in tokyo, reaching eur 570 000. the price of this 269 kilo tuna beats last year’s previous record of eur 320 000. this is simply crazy and explains how important this business is. tomorrow the european parliament will vote on eu legislation introducing new internationally-agreed rules for the bluefin tuna fishery in european waters. as the 2012 bluefin fishing season opened last week, the rules clearly need to be swiftly implemented. in addition to quotas, these rules set out the conditions, practice and equipment for the fishing and farming of these iconic and endangered fish species. unfortunately the rules fall far short of what international scientific advice deems necessary to give this unique, beautiful and highly priced fish species a decent chance of recovering from its current critically low stock levels. the sorry state of bluefin tuna in the atlantic and mediterranean is well known. atlantic bluefin tuna stocks have declined by up to three-quarters over the past 40 years and, given the long reproductive cycle of the fish, the prospects for recovery are not good. documented and legal over-fishing of bluefin has been really exacerbated by illegal, regulated and unreported fishing of these high-value fish. high profile cases of this kind included last year’s illegal fishing in libyan waters during the war. the heavy involvement of organised crime in the fishing and farming of bluefin tuna in the mediterranean is also a major cause of concern. furthermore, given the scale of illegal and unreported fishing, it is impossible to get an accurate picture of how many fish are being caught. however, different estimates suggest the amounts being caught are multiples of the actual allowed quotas, which themselves are already unsustainable. in that sense, this new legislation, although necessary, represents a missed opportunity for the eu to take meaningful steps to prevent the demise of bluefin tuna. instead, europe is continuing to hide behind the fig-leaf offered by iccat (international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas), or rather its contractual parties. many of us believe that, ultimately, only a complete ban on commercial fishing would give the species a fighting chance of recovery. failing that, iccat should be agreeing to completely close certain areas for bluefin fishing, particularly during the spawning season, rather than simply adopting half-hearted quotas that are not in line with scientific advice. i tried this with the previous amendments to my report, but unfortunately the majority of my colleagues did not follow this. that was bad luck. still i believe that the eu, as the main fisher of this stock, must accept a large chunk of responsibility for driving bluefin tuna to the brink. tougher controls of the fleet and the related industry are also necessary to prevent illegal fishing and over-fishing. the eu must mobilise more resources to this end and assist other iccat members that lack the resources for proper enforcement. this is particularly true in the mediterranean. the eu legislation set to be adopted tomorrow represents the bare minimum and is simply a minimalist implementation of the international iccat recovery plan. while there are some slight improvements, with the reduction of the amount of bluefin tuna that can be caught and tightening of controls, it still falls far below what scientists believe is necessary to give the bluefin stock a fighting chance of recovery. but i insist once again that there is nothing stopping the eu from adopting more ambitious measures. that is what i expected to have in the report and that is the least we can do in the future, especially when we meet with the other iccat contractual parties in november.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, unlike my colleagues, i believe that parliament has succeeded in bringing to the first reading a text which is very well balanced between the measures which are necessary for the protection and recovery of bluefin tuna agreed at iccat, the maintenance of fleet activity and the strengthening of control measures. the committee on fisheries has therefore rejected some of the rapporteur's maximalist proposals, which would have meant the cessation of activity of the fleet of community vessels - and only community vessels - with the disastrous socioeconomic consequences that this would have entailed. it should be remembered that since 2006 bluefin tuna has been subject to successive recovery plans and that changing the rules of the game mid-game, only for the community fleet, would be unfair and discriminatory and would hardly bring any benefit to the sustainability of the resource, as the rest of the fleets could continue to fish. finally, i would like to stress the need to shorten the time taken to transpose the recommendations adopted in the context of the rdps into community law. in this case, the delay was due to the incomprehensible opposition of the european commission and some groups in this parliament to the inclusion of provisions for implementing acts in the wording of this regulation, something which had been reasonably requested by the council, in order to obtain legal certainty in the interpretation of certain technical aspects which could impede compliance with the control obligations imposed by the iccat. our group will therefore oppose the unilateral declaration by parliament proposed in amendment no 4.
mr president, i think that most of the content of this report is in line with the view that the exploitation of fishery resources must be regulated so that they can be sustainable. it proposes measures which are verifiable, feasible, realistic, based on scientific evidence and which are envisaged in the medium and long term and which are compatible with the activities of european vessels, which need not be punished by unilateral declarations. the proposed measures are therefore a good contribution to improving the bluefin tuna recovery regulation. the issue, as you all know, is complex because of the demand situation, the prices that this species reaches on the market, the methods of farming and fishing and the geostrategic complications of some of the fishing areas. it is a novel by the person responsible for the report, like 'sayonara sushi', which ends well, as i hope will happen with what is proposed in this report.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr romeva. it is true that he has produced a magnificent and interesting report, but what we are going to vote on tomorrow is the commission's initial proposal which, far from going into detail, is to transpose measures required by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic bluefin tuna which, for the reasons mentioned, have been paralysed. competition reasons have paralysed a plan that should have been completed in 2013 for two years. we believe it is very important that measures be taken immediately so that we can effectively guarantee the sustainability and diversity that enrich our marine environment and, in this sense, tuna as a species that is effectively regulated and that must have controls that allow these maximum catch levels to be respected and in the conditions that arise. we agree in principle, but i do agree that they are minimal and that they will have to be studied in depth if we are to guarantee the sustainability of bluefin tuna.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, let me thank all those who have taken part in this discussion, and also all those who are going to vote so that the decision can be put in place, because it is high time that this was done. you have made very valuable contributions: they have been noted down and i will convey them to my colleague commissioner damanaki.
the rapporteur. - mr president, first of all i think it is important to thank not only the efforts but also the political will, which in this case was shown by many parties. it is a complex issue; it is a sensitive issue; it is a matter of a lot of money; it is an issue which obviously generates a lot of economic interest in many different sectors and therefore deserves political attention which has not been given to it until now. true, it is a subject that sometimes gives rise to dramas that, unfortunately, as in the case of the novel mentioned, are less fiction than they might seem. there's more reality in some of these plots than the author would have wanted. however, i think it is important to stress that what we are going to adopt tomorrow is fundamental, it is necessary, it is essential. it's not what i'd have wanted. i think it was an opportunity for the european union to show that it is leading the way, that it is really leading this debate. it has remained at the minimum of the minimum, which is what the iccat international framework requires. but it is essential, it is necessary. we have a few months to prepare the next meeting of the iccaa, which will take place in november in morocco, and it will be a fundamental meeting because we will have the stock assessment there. we will know exactly - or at least very approximately - what the size of the stock is and we will have to take reasonable measures, including, if necessary, closing either part of the sector - i am talking, for example, about the fence - or some specific parts of the coast, from the point of view, for example, of the spawning areas. we have a few months to work on a proposal which i think should be much more ambitious - i insist - than the one we are going to vote on tomorrow.
mr president, the sino-european relationship is beneficial, as we know, for both sides and will be a fundamental vector, in my view, in defining the new world order that will emerge after the crisis we are suffering. the importance of china as a strategic partner for the european union is well known, but, like any relationship, it is not without problems. one of them is the imbalance in our trade relations and this report gives a good account of that. while chinese investments benefit from easy penetration of the european market, thanks to our openness and clear rules, european companies often encounter difficulties in accessing the chinese market, especially, as we all know, in public procurement, banking, telecommunications and other sectors. in this respect, the report stresses the need to rebalance relations between the union and china. it recognises the need for the commission and the member states to improve their coordination in order to strengthen our position vis-à-vis china in the most sensitive areas. as long as there are member states who are going about their business with china, the work of the trade commissioner, mr de gucht, will be more difficult and our strength will be weaker. we can only rebalance our relations with china if we act together. china - i repeat - is a strategic partner for the european union and a key player in helping to overcome the crisis europe is experiencing in recent years. however, it is also a fierce competitor and subject to disputes: violation of world trade organization rules, dumping, intellectual property rights, etc. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had not been able to demonstrate that the measures were in line with the market economy operator test. we need clarity on this issue in order to be able to negotiate with our chinese partners on the best possible terms. i was going to ask the commission for its opinion on china's automatic entry into the market economy status, but as i have already heard - i am finished, mr president - commissioner reding speak on this point, i have no further questions.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, mr commissioner, it is true that the human rights defenders in colombia and the united nations commission on human rights say that there is no improvement in the government of president uribe. there is a situation of stagnation; there is a permanent persecution of trade unions, of human rights defenders, and for that reason alone, this trade agreement should contain a clause which would clearly assess whether the agreement is actually useful for progress, so as not to allow the continuing violation of human rights in colombia. but we also believe that the trade part of this agreement does not take account of the asymmetries. we are talking about a country, colombia, which is one of the most unequal countries in the world, and we are very much afraid that, by not taking into account trade asymmetries, complementarity, fair trade, we could create a situation that would accelerate the inequalities even more. that is why we are extremely critical of this agreement, which we hope will not be ratified.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we are discussing an agreement between the european union and peru and colombia, and speaking of human rights, i would like, mr president, for this parliament to raise its voice to condemn the murder of 12 members of the colombian armed forces yesterday by the farc terrorist organization, 150 metres from the venezuelan border. and i think, mr president, that this parliament should convey its condemnation and its affection and solidarity, in these difficult times, to the whole of colombian society and to the families of the victims. the commission has made it abundantly clear that we should not, mr president, place emphasis on a continuous dynamic of demands which have not been imposed on other countries which have signed agreements of this kind. i think we should emphasize the fact that this agreement provides a clear and predictable framework for trying to overcome a system of unilateral concessions, which i would remind some colleagues already exists and is in force and which will affect trade, investment and services. and in that context, i am very surprised that some members of this house say that this agreement raises doubts in their minds, but they do not raise doubts about the human rights situation in guatemala, el salvador, honduras or nicaragua, with which the european union has concluded an agreement of the same nature, or in mexico, where we all know what the rates of violence are. what is certain, mr president, is that this agreement will enable peru and colombia to play on an equal footing with other countries which benefit from the same facilities, as is evidently the case with chile, turkey, morocco, egypt, israel and the caricom countries. i believe, mr president, that this agreement was signed by the european union, its 27 member states, the commission and peru and colombia, and i believe that it is paternalistic to tell our partner countries what is good for them or what is not good for them. i think they are mature enough to know that they want this agreement because the european union is a convenient partner. and i think, mr president, that instead of thinking of introducing additional discriminatory measures, what we have to do is to put the emphasis clearly on why, commissioner, this agreement, after almost two and a half years, has not yet been ratified. i believe that this situation is not in the best interests of the image of the european union and that we should proceed swiftly with its ratification.
mr president, the agreement is good for the european union, for colombia and for peru because it promotes development and combats poverty, and that is a good tool against social injustice, which is the best breeding ground for violence. we have also seen the willingness of the governments in the area to make progress in this field. the most significant indicators would include the ongoing and reciprocal dialogue on human rights that was established on a voluntary basis in 2009 and the ratification of the ilo core conventions. in addition, the victims' law, the law on land restitution, the programme for the protection of those threatened - which already covers 11 000 people - and the increase in resources for investigating crimes against trade unionists and human rights activists are to be mentioned. these actions have significantly improved the quality of life of peruvians and colombians, although much remains to be done. that is why i support the resolution, i ask that these progresses be valued and i reject the risk of victimization that the citizens of the region may suffer. on the one hand, they are getting rid of terrorism; on the other hand, we should not punish them with reservations based on prejudice, because we may hinder their progress towards peace, democracy and economic and social development.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank both the european commission and the governments of colombia and peru for the great effort made to bring this agreement to a successful conclusion. my full support for an agreement which will undoubtedly bring benefits to both regions, both colombia and peru, and which will help to improve the human rights situation in colombia. this agreement is an example for a key region for the european union such as south america. however, i am concerned about another agreement, which the commission is about to open negotiations on. the commission must be a strong advocate of legal certainty in the investments that are being made, which are so important for improving trade flows between the two parties. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to ask commissioner de gucht what action he is considering taking on the repsol ypf issue. the best guarantee that a possible agreement with mercosur will be successful, as was the case with the agreement we are discussing here today with colombia and peru, would be a firm and decisive response from the european union to the repsol case. we must not allow our allies on the other side of the atlantic to be more forceful than we are on a matter which affects europe.
mr president, commissioner, we are of course in favour of trade agreements, but above all fair and equitable trade agreements which guarantee the protection of human rights. if we look at the chapter on sustainable development, it is extremely fragile and not binding. it excludes the dispute settlement mechanism, and civil society can only have an opinion on its content, but not on the whole of the fta. colombia and peru must meet certain conditions before ratification, including: demonstrable improvements in human rights; the return of peasants to their lands; effective demobilization of the paramilitaries; cooperation with european justice; abandoning the reform of military justice, which gives a blank check to impunity; and protection of indigenous peoples, of course. it is also necessary to review the chapters on financial services, which are allowing in these agreements what is being prevented from being done in europe.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, on behalf of the danish presidency i would like to thank parliament for its continued interest in this important issue of taxation of the financial sector in the follow-up to the crisis. i am aware of parliament’s keen and long-standing interest in this matter. today we will discuss a possible common solution for taxation of financial transactions at eu level. the subject was highlighted in a resolution adopted in march 2010 on ‘financial transaction taxes – making them work’, as well as in a subsequent resolution in february 2011, which looked at innovative financing at global and european level. there have been many other resolutions on the wider issues of the financial crisis that have addressed this subject, and today we are debating a report by ms podimata on the commission proposal for a common system for taxing financial transactions within the eu. members of this house will also be aware that the council has been taking the issue of a financial transaction tax (ftt) very seriously. the council fully agrees with parliament on the need to ensure a fair contribution from the financial sector in the light of the huge costs and risks inflicted on member states’ public finances by the financial crisis. before the commission presented its proposal on an ftt, various options for further taxing of the financial sector were discussed extensively in the council high level working party on taxation, as well as at ministerial level in the economic and financial affairs (ecofin) council. broadly speaking, the council discussions have reflected different views from member states as to which tax instrument should be given priority. at the end of last year, the commission submitted to the council a proposal for a directive on an ftt. the polish presidency announced a political discussion and a technical analysis of the proposal. this work was subsequently taken over by the danish presidency. given the importance of the issue and the interest in it, the danish presidency has engaged in an intense programme of work. we have accommodated the wish expressed by some member states for a speedy process. there have been extra meetings at a technical level, as well as political-level discussions both at the ecofin council in mid-march and at the informal ecofin meeting in denmark at the end of march. these discussions have enabled us to make progress, and i expect we will have the issue on the agenda at the june ecofin meeting. the presidency concluded the first technical examination of this matter in march, and, at the time, identified a number of issues that will require further attention, some of which are also of concern to parliament. among these are the risks of reallocation of financial activity outside the eu, and tax avoidance issues, if the eu were to move forward with its own ftt. the design of the tax should, to the greatest possible extent, accommodate such concerns. another question is whether such a tax should allow for possible exemptions – for pension funds, etc. that would naturally impact on its revenue potential and would lead to other competition-related challenges. then there is the impact of the ftt on growth and jobs, on banks’, companies’ and households’ borrowing costs, and on the functioning of financial markets in general. not all aspects and possible effects of the tax are sufficiently understood, nor is there agreement on answers to all the questions that could be raised. it is clear that there are challenges to be overcome if the ftt is to be made workable. despite the comprehensive work that has been done and the good progress achieved to date, honourable members will be well aware that not all member states are able to support the commission’s proposal. i note that adoption of the proposal requires unanimity. at the ecofin council it has been decided that we should follow a two-track approach: while discussion on the basis of the commission’s ftt proposal would continue, exploring room for possible compromise, we would look, at the same time and in the light of the member states’ various points of view, at alternatives with regard to both the substantive and the procedural aspects of an ftt and with regard to other tax instruments. this approach is designed to facilitate progress on the matter. one alternative, for instance, could be a financial activity tax applied by some member states. another could be a transaction tax that builds on some elements of stamp duty. while work along these lines must continue, there is also a wish among member states in the council to clarify matters and to reach a conclusion on this issue. i am looking forward to hearing your views, which will provide useful input for the danish presidency as it seeks to take forward the work in the council. the presidency will submit a report on this issue for the june ecofin council. this will give ministers an opportunity to discuss a way forward and will provide guidance, as to future options, for the incoming cypriot presidency. i would like to use this opportunity to thank parliament and the rapporteur for their constructive cooperation on the ongoing work in the eu to further this discussion and to strengthen financial regulation in the light of the crisis. one of the main priorities of the danish presidency is to strengthen financial regulation so that future crises can be avoided. i sense that this work is accorded high priority by all the european institutions, including parliament, and all the parties involved. i thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish first to thank the european parliament, and in particular anni podimata, for the excellent work on the financial transaction tax. this is an extremely important file for me because i truly believe in all that an eu ftt has to offer. it will create a fairer tax system in which the financial sector makes a just contribution to public finances. it will act as a market-based instrument which incentivises steady financial activity and deters high-risk speculation, and of course the ftt will deliver substantial new revenues without asking any more of the ordinary citizens. this money can be channelled into growth-promoting measures, used to support growth-friendly tax reforms, or help to finance global challenges. used as an own resource as proposed by the commission, this would result in a net decrease in member states’ gmi contributions to the eu budget. i would now like to address four main issues related to our debate. first, the commission welcomes the idea of exploring how to widen the net of our transactions. in this context elements inspired by the issuance principle should certainly be discussed. we believe, however, that this approach should be limited to instruments with a clear link to eu territory. secondly, the commission is not opposed to making the legal enforceability of a transaction conditional on the payment of the tax. however, the commission does not see a reason to act at eu level. member states should decide how to achieve this. thirdly, the commission would not support the exemption of ucits and pension funds. we have defined a broad-based approach for tax neutrality, to avoid distortions of competition and to encourage long-term ‘conservative’ investments. the impact of the tax on pension funds should not be overstated.fourthly, although a step-by-step approach could be considered if necessary, i do not believe this should be modelled on the uk stamp duty. that tax has too limited a scope and leaves most transactions, and notably those of professional dealers, untaxed. with such an approach we would not meet our policy objectives. to conclude, i really appreciate the strong support for this proposal that we have seen from the european parliament up to now. i hope that i can rely on your continued support in making this tax a reality in europe.
opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. - mr president, first of all i should like to say that today it is possible for this parliament to put forward a financial transaction tax. we are therefore faced with an important moment, an important decision, in order to face this crisis and to face a growth model in the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we in the committee on development have also made sure that there is a significant sensitivity so that part of these resources can be allocated to solidarity and the objective of eradicating poverty in the world. i would therefore like to thank both the commission and the council and, in particular, the rapporteur, mrs anni podimata, for the excellent work they have done, their sensitivity with this committee on development and, above all, that objective which we have worked together to achieve so that that part of this financial transaction fee is going to the people who need it most.
mr president, the introduction of the rate we are dealing with today would have positive effects in many respects: from the regulatory point of view, from the point of view of combating speculation, introducing more social justice, providing resources in different fields and allowing us to be more in solidarity with different parts of the world and with different areas of the european union. from a regulatory point of view, the origin of this crisis is the deregulation of the financial market, and the introduction of this rate would give us an instrument to better regulate it and to prevent future crises in this field. from the speculative point of view, it would curb the dizzying daily change in financial transactions and direct resources towards the real economy. from the point of view of justice, it would involve more in the solution of the crisis those who have contributed most to provoke it. from the point of view of revenue, several billion euros could be allocated to various aspects, both to union and national resources and to the implementation of projects that would increase growth and employment. and from the standpoint of solidarity, it would allow the europe we want to be more solidary with other parts of the world that are suffering more intensely from the economic crisis, in a structural way. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue card question. mrs swinburne, the discussion on how the rate is technically applied is ongoing because, at this stage, we are only expressing parliament's wish to support the commission's proposal to go ahead with the rate. the discussion and debate on specific aspects therefore corresponds to a later stage. but i must point out that, as regards the last part of your question, there are pension funds which are productive and which guarantee the rights of pensioners in a stable way, with real investments, and there are pension funds which are speculative and in that case the same rate should also be applied to them.
mr president, whether the ftt should be applied in europe has been under discussion for years. now it seems that this parliament, at least, is going to support it. i consider that the ftt would be better applied at global level, but i understand the practical difficulties of achieving such an objective nowadays. however, the way the ftt is implemented is fundamental to whether or not it will succeed. government bonds and pension funds, in my opinion, should be exempt from it and the savings of our older citizens should also be protected. i hope that this will be taken into account in the trilogues. i believe that the low tax rates under the ftt will mean that it does not provoke an exit of the financial industry from the countries that apply it. in the interests of pragmatism, and because of the extraordinary times in which we are living, the catalan liberal party, which i represent, will support this ftt.
mr president, the financial crisis has significantly deteriorated public finances. the contribution of the financial services sector to mitigating this deterioration is one of the commitments made at the g20 summit in pittsburgh in september 2009. without this contribution there will be no fair solution to the crisis: whoever pollutes, pays. a tax of this kind must be part of an agenda for growth and jobs in europe. its €60 billion annual revenue potential will help stabilise public accounts, discourage speculative activities and the hypertrophy of the financial system and encourage investment in the real economy. from a broader perspective, taxes are the price of civilization. all who participate and gain from it must assume them. the financial sector must also assume its fiscal responsibilities. the financial transaction tax will correct the anomaly that under community law financial services are not subject to indirect taxation. such an exemption only makes sense to avoid double taxation when dealing with transactions directly linked to the real economy, such as payment services or credit, but not for trade in purely financial products. it is time to eliminate this privilege and to prevent the tax burden from falling on the rest of the industry and on citizens who do not consume financial products and services. since the march 2010 resolution in the guerrero report, which included one of my amendments, this has been the position of the european parliament, and to achieve a genuine international rate that contributes to the achievement of the millennium development goals and global development.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal. thank you for a very nuanced and very wide-ranging debate. it shows quite clearly that the work done in considering the commission's proposal for a transaction tax is important and is a high priority for parliament. i would like to mention the work of the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur, and the great work done in the various committees of this parliament. this is a matter which will be referred back to the council. as i said at the outset, we hope that it will be able to come to the council in june. there is one thing which i think is very crucial in the debate today. it is the broad consensus that has been on the need for a sound and well-functioning financial sector. it is essential for growth that companies have access to capital, it is essential that you have a financial sector which is not only sufficiently bored to support sound products but also risk-averse enough to ensure that companies which create jobs can get the credit they need. i would therefore like to welcome the work that the council and parliament have done together with the commission in regulating the financial sector. as a first result, and of course building on other presidencies, we have already carried out joint work to bring a completely different light to the trade in derivatives. i think it is very important to note the milestone that this proposal represents. the second is the council's decisions of the last few days, where the trilogue stands out in terms of achieving better and greater independence for credit rating agencies, gaining more information on the basis of credit rating and having a real and genuine discussion of the background on which credit rating is carried out. the last thing i hope parliament appreciates - and i believe it does, as i know the debate in this house - is the proposal on project bonds. last but certainly not least, i would mention the trilogue which is beginning to take shape on capital requirements. it is a very, very big piece of work, carried out on the basis of the commission's proposals, which impose increased demands on both the amount of capital, the quality of capital, the liquidity available, the management carried out and the way in which one ensures that one is in - if i may say so - good standing as a financial undertaking before one starts to pay out bonuses and dividends. i think that in the light of the debate here today on enhanced cooperation, the eu-27 and the functioning of the internal market, it is very important that the proposals i have mentioned here have been adopted unanimously in the council, even though qualified majority voting could have been used in connection with these proposals. it reflects the fact that there is also a common agenda in the council to ensure a better and more well regulated financial sector. the discussion on a financial transaction tax thus complements a substantial and weighty agenda on regulation. today a number of questions have been raised by both those members who support the proposal for a transaction tax and those members who are against the proposal for a transaction tax: how will it work? who's going to pay the taxes? is there anyone who should be exempt from paying taxes? can a distinction be made between speculative and non-speculative transactions? and if unanimity cannot be achieved in the council, what are the advantages and disadvantages of enhanced cooperation? as many members have said, the prospect of unanimity in the council is very long-term, and those who support a transaction tax believe that it would be problematic to implement it within the framework of enhanced cooperation, because of the internal market. last but not least, of course, there is the debate on the amount of any revenue and how it should be allocated. we will continue to work on this in the council. we have taken very careful note of the debate today and will of course also take parliament's proposal and vote into account in the further work. as i said, we're working from a two-track perspective. we are continuing to study the commission's proposal and today's debate is a valuable part of that study, but we are also continuing to work on discussing alternatives to a financial transaction tax. as mentioned at the outset, countries have different types of tax on the financial sector, whether it be the stamp duty, which has been mentioned several times today, or activity-based taxes that other countries have, for example in the form of a payroll tax. in conclusion, i would like to thank you for a very nuanced and very inspiring debate. your work and input will provide the council with further basis for further work and will also guide us on the way forward.
mr president, commissioner, and mrs podimata, i congratulate you on your courageous and necessary report. we need to be brave and stop being subjugated by fear to the financial system. the financial transaction tax is a political signal that all citizens suffering from the crisis are waiting to start a path that will put an end to the risky behaviour of banks. the financial sector was responsible for the crisis and we hope this tax will help to limit speculation. a tax useful for increasing european investment capacity and for creating jobs. a tax that gives greater transparency and control and that penalizes speculative investment. in my country there is a recent example: 100,000 people affected by the banking speculation with a product called preferred shares, which affects people who have invested their money, the product of their work, and who cannot withdraw it.
mr president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr david martin, for the work he has done and the danish presidency for its willingness to move forward with this report. we know well what the responsibilities of the traditional parliaments are: three very specific ones: the legislative function, the budgetary function and the control function, and another more vague but very important one: that of political guidance. through the control function, parliaments can scrutinize and monitor the performance of government and administration, they can demand accountability and they can finally apply political accountability, if necessary, through light or stronger mechanisms. the right of control includes committees of inquiry and therefore the work we are trying to carry out now extends the functions of this parliament, which has made great progress in the legislative field and in the area of legislative and budgetary powers, but has fallen behind in terms of control. so, as we still have a negotiating process ahead of us after this vote, i ask the council and the commission, together with the rapporteur and this parliament, to give this house a research capacity.
rapporteur. − mr president, i just want to show my appreciation for the huge support for this report and i also want to take the opportunity to dedicate this to a person – paul watson – who is now at risk of being extradited to costa rica.
mr president, i have supported this report on the transaction tax because i want transparency and control for the markets, and because i believe that it is a way of controlling and taxing mere speculation and a way of helping to solve the crisis of public finances from the revenue point of view. we talk a lot about spending, but i see very little interest in some states to deal at european level with issues such as financial transactions and - something more scandalous, as commissioner rehn denounced yesterday - tax fraud. these state resistances deprive us of billions of euros a year to boost the productive economy and the real economy. i would remind you, finally, that we are consistent on this issue. at the suggestion of my party, the basque parliament already approved a proposal in 2002, on the eve of the spanish presidency, calling for the then-called 'tobin tax' to be promoted in its work programme. they didn't listen to us. i am glad that, ten years after our proposal, we are making progress along this road, even if it needs to be improved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the eu is obliged to incorporate the amendments to the multiannual recovery plan for the eastern bluefin tuna population which the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccaa) incorporated in paris in november 2010. as a contracting party to the iccat, the eu has an obligation to incorporate those amendments into eu law. these include: a reduction in the tac from 13 500 to 12 900 tonnes (although the tac is not included in the regulation); increased control over the transfer of tuna from the net to cages; other details required in member states' annual fishing plans, fishing capacity management plans and inspection plans; increased capacity reduction measures; an extension of the ban on purse seiners in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean; a ban on joint fishing operations with non-eu flagged vessels; various provisions to increase inspection and observation capacities. the eu must approve these amendments, as they have been agreed by an international organisation and the eu has not raised any objections.
in writing. − in favour. the sorry state of bluefin tuna in the atlantic and mediterranean is well known and the eu, as the main fisher of the stock, must accept a large chunk of responsibility for driving bluefin to the brink. what has been adopted today represents the bare minimum and is no more than a minimalist implementation of the international iccat recovery plan. this falls far below what scientists believe is necessary to give the bluefin stock a fighting chance of recovery. in that sense, this represents a missed opportunity for the eu to take meaningful steps to prevent the demise of bluefin. if the eu wants to get serious about saving bluefin, this means closing areas to fishing – particularly during the breeding season – as well as adopting more stringent measures to close some of the loopholes, which exacerbate the over-exploitation of the stock. tougher controls of the fleet and the related industry are also necessary to prevent illegal fishing and over-fishing.
in writing. − support the introduction of stricter measures to ensure the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. the reduction in catches by 600 tonnes, the strengthening of measures to reduce fishing capacity and the tightening of various aspects of control, such as the transfer of tuna from the net to the cages, improve the conditions for the development of fishing activity. the multiannual recovery plan, adopted in 2006 and covering the period up to 2022, has been modified several times over the years, following recommendations adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccaa), the regional organisation responsible for its management and to which the eu is a contracting party. the adoption of this report incorporates into community law the recommendations adopted at its meeting in november 2010 in paris, which i attended as a member of a delegation from the european parliament. in order to implement them properly, it is good that a flexible compromise has finally been reached at first reading, which, without setting a precedent, allows us to be prepared for their immediate implementation and application at the beginning of the next campaign, which we are already in.
in writing. − in favour. the accelerated phasing-in of double-hull or equivalent design requirements for single-hull oil tankers is a very important issue. oil slicks resulting from oil tanker accidents, such as those involving the erika in 1999 and the prestige in 2002, are major environmental disasters with tragic repercussions for the marine fauna and flora. reflecting a concern for the environment and a willingness to learn from past mistakes, this regulation seeks to reduce the risks of accidental oil pollution in european waters through accelerated phasing-in of double-hull requirements. in single-hull vessels the oil in the cargo tanks is separated from the seawater only by the bottom and side plating. if the hull is damaged following a collision or grounding, there is a risk that the cargo tanks will discharge their contents into the sea and cause major pollution. an effective means of avoiding this risk is to surround the cargo tanks with a second inner plate at a sufficient distance from the outer shell. this ‘double-hull’ design protects the cargo tanks from damage and thus reduces the pollution risk.
in writing. - i am voting in favour because this agreement improves on the previous one, allows 150 european vessels to continue operating and offers fair compensation which will promote development among the local population, since it specifies the contributions to this end and contains a clause which includes the obligation to hire mozambican seamen. it is technically a better agreement than the previous one and legally it is more secure. it also insists on the use of sustainable fishing methods. among the various measures i am particularly interested in the introduction of the electronic logbook.
in writing. − against. this is another example of the old-fashioned fish agreements that we need to strongly modify.
in writing. - while this report is based on a historically left-wing idea - taxing speculative capital movements - this ec proposal casts more shadows than lights. for more than a decade, the united left has been advocating the tobin tax, which proposed an international tax on financial transactions, the proceeds of which should be used for international cooperation and the fight against poverty in the third world. but unfortunately, what the european commission is proposing is far from that. this proposal leaves the destination of the funds raised entirely open. not only is there no guarantee that they will go to international cooperation, but meps voted against our group's proposal that a part of the revenue should go to social cohesion, the defence of public services and job creation. i have always considered the creation of a capital levy to be of the utmost importance as a key instrument in combating financial speculation. but i also believe that this tax must be accompanied by other clear measures, such as the elimination of tax havens. and this rate should be implemented at international level. that is why i abstained.
in writing. in favour. it is to be welcomed that the european parliament has extended the scope of the tax in order to broaden the tax base, but also to prevent any possibility of circumvention. contrary to the european commission's initial proposal, foreign exchange transactions will be covered by the tax. in addition, the residence principle has been supplemented by the principles of issue and non-legal recognition. in practical terms, this means that products issued in a taxable country will be taxed wherever they are traded. furthermore, derivative contracts which would not have been subject to the tax would not have legal recognition. the greens/efa group regrets, however, that the european parliament has granted an exemption to pension funds. this exemption is a bad sign, especially since these funds which are long-term investors are marginally affected by the tax, which mainly penalises short-term players.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the ftt as i think it is an important tool to raise revenues that eventually could become an own resource for the eu budget diminishing its dependency on transfers from member states. i think the rate is low enough in order not to create a real disruption on financial markets. moreover, pension funds will be excluded, so the savings of our elderly will not be subject to the tax. i also think that government bonds should be excluded from the ftt, and i hope that the trialogue with the commission and the council will reach a favourable conclusion in this regard.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this initiative because the balance of exports and imports between the eu and china over the last three decades favours china, because of the difficulties faced by european companies entering the chinese market and because of the seizures at the eu's external borders of more than 103 million items on suspicion of infringement, of which china is the country of origin in 85% of cases. i therefore believe that it is urgent to apply the principle of reciprocity in trade policy with developed and emerging countries, so that there is legal competition and greater equality in all commitments for anti-dumping, anti-subsidy and safeguard measures in the event of illegal trade practices.
in writing. − abstention. we wanted stronger stress on human rights. observance of human and social rights is essential in the cooperation between the eu and china. it was necessary to underline the importance of compliance with and a rapid implementation of all rules of the ilo, including the right to freely form independent trade unions; to support the pursuit of decent pay and working conditions, and to call for mutual respect for labour legislation, especially the prevention of illegal forms of labour such as child labour and prison labour.
in writing. − at first, china was a competitor against european companies because the low cost of production there made its goods more affordable, and therefore many jobs were eliminated in the european union. later, however, there came a new opportunity for european companies that are now settled in china. it is true that there are still many areas for ongoing improvement, such as the development of industrial cooperation in the green economy, addressing china’s lower social, environmental and human rights standards, and increasing the flexibility of the yuan, in order not to create artificial trade advantages for china. china and the eu both know that we need each other in our economic relations, and we both know that we can derive mutual benefit from that situation. it makes no sense to be in constant competition. for all these reasons, i will vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − i am voting in favour of the report, and in favour of the postponement of the legislative resolution. our group has supported the strengthening of parliament’s right of inquiry because committees of inquiry are an important tool for parliamentary democracy. the report as voted in committee was very ambitious, given the traditional reticence in the council, but it was drafted in accordance with a progressive ep legal service opinion on the matter. the commission and the council, which both need to give their consent, had serious concerns about the ep proposal as adopted in committee. the rapporteur, after exploratory contacts with the danish presidency and more recently with the commission, reviewed parliament’s demands so as to avoid a straightforward ‘no’ from the council and to provide for a mandate that will serve as a basis for opening formal negotiations with both institutions.
in writing. − i think it is an important step for our parliament to have the possibility to engage on public investigations of relevant issues for our citizens. strengthening the rules in this way will enhance transparency and the role of the european parliament in a real separation of powers inside the eu.
mr president, my colleague, sabine lösing, has already stated our position on this conflict, and i would like to say that we should not delude ourselves. when the united states, israel and then the european union supported, financed, the secession of sudan without first and jointly resolving between the future states the contentious 2,000 kilometres of border and the extraction of crude oil and its transport, we knew what we were getting into. is anyone now surprised by the conflict? if this conflict was supported because it was behind a geostrategic operation of the west whose only objective was to wrest the oil-rich areas of sudan from arab control so that they could be linked to the pro-western states of east africa! as always, the west and oil! where is the poverty? what was the importance of poverty to the west? i think it's, again, a lesson; that we have to take note that above oil, above geostrategic interests, there is poverty and people, people who suffer.
mr president, we have before us a report by mr gerbrandy - to whom i must congratulate myself - which, together with the road map, are perhaps the two best examples of the way forward which we wish to follow from this parliament and, it seems, also from the commission. but that path is filled with obstacles sometimes called crisis, sometimes called austerity, other times called even subsidiarity which is also used as an obstacle and sometimes called impossible taxation. and we must be clear: with this report we are saying that enough is enough, that we must learn from our mistakes, that there are no more obstacles and that there is no better way to achieve what we want, sustainable development, than to be more efficient, to use resources better and not to exploit them in the way they are exploited so far. we therefore ask the presidency and the commissioner, if it is true that we want a european union with sustainable development, to apply the recipes that are being proposed here; to introduce corrective measures to prevent the effects of shortages from escalating into price rises and food crises that are always paid by the same people, the most disadvantaged; to propose reduced rates of vat for secondary materials, because all aid is too little to bring us closer to 100% recycling; to help change the model by shifting the tax burden from labour income to speculative capital income and to those activities which are less sustainable. in short, we are asking for proactivity, we are asking for commitment and we are asking for demand. because there are states that, by cutting research, renewable energy, health and health - as my country, spain, does - what they do is to stop agenda 2020. commissioner: you can ask for more!
mr president, i welcome the concreteness of this report with regard to the commitment to use resources efficiently. i would particularly like to stress the idea of permanent materials as opposed to the idea of raw materials and the innovative solutions proposed to penalize producers and users economically for the inappropriate use of the latter. in the area of waste, i welcome the objective of reducing our waste production and treating it better, because that means articulating concrete, viable and realistic management plans, focused on better reusing recyclable materials and better disposing of unusable materials. this is much more than picking and transporting: it means promoting convenient sorting that encourages users and supporting technologies that create value and innovation around reuse. this also applies to ending landfills. that has to be the future, and reserve incineration for the non-reusable. finally, i agree that achieving these objectives requires awareness, training and consensus and greater demands on the states and regions, because the challenge involves us all.
member of the commission. − mr president, in order to address the excessively high, and sometimes even dramatic, levels of youth unemployment in the european union, the commission adopted its youth opportunities initiative last december and this has been endorsed by the european council. it calls on the member states to take action in four main areas: preventing early school leaving; developing skills that are relevant to the labour market; helping young people gain their first work experience and on-the-job training; and helping them to access the labour market and get a job. implementing the initiative may involve three avenues: where possible, reallocating structural fund resources; designing effective policy through the european semester; and taking action at eu level via other initiatives such as a quality framework for traineeships and a youth guarantee. the commission has engaged with the 15 member states whose youth unemployment rates are above the eu average. it sent eight action teams to the member states with the highest youth unemployment and held bilateral talks with the other seven. the aim was to see what measures should be taken and how the eu funds available could be refocused. this is a pilot exercise involving the structural funds, which are subject to shared management. as you know, that means the individual member states are responsible for using the amounts allocated to them. overall programming took place at the beginning of the current period and the allocations to the member states cannot be altered. in the current tight budget situation, eu funds can nevertheless help hugely by supporting national policy efforts. at the end of last year, of the eur 347 billion structural fund resources for the current programming period, about eur 82 billion had not been set aside for specific projects, and around eur 40 billion was still available for the eight action team member states. youth employment is a high priority for european social fund spending in most member states. that is why the action teams looked at stepping up programmes and measures that are performing well to give young people additional support quickly, and reduce or abandon programmes that are performing less well. the results are encouraging. about eur 7.3 billion has been reallocated so far. this should benefit at least 450 000 people. the commission has agreed on practical follow-up with the eight individual action team member states. president barroso will present the detailed results to the heads of state or government at an informal dinner tonight (23 may) in brussels. likewise, we are now finalising the operational conclusions of bilateral meetings with the seven other member states involved. naturally, the commission is ready to assist other member states as well in altering the allocation of eu funds. over the past few weeks, the commission has been looking at member states’ national reform programmes under the european semester. at the end of may, the commission will put forward proposals for country-specific recommendations. a large number of member states will receive recommendations on youth employment and related issues, such as education. this year i will be presenting two other initiatives that are very close to the concerns of this house. these are the quality framework for traineeships and the policy framework for youth guarantees. they will provide practical policy guidance for smooth school-to-work transitions and the fair treatment of young people. in december the commission will be presenting a comprehensive report on the results of the youth initiative one year after it was launched. this will be an opportunity to discuss it with you as well and i will be glad to report to the house. the problem of youth unemployment will not disappear overnight and only if we address it with resolve. that is why we made it one of the key priorities for the future structural funds programmes. the european social fund in particular will be an important instrument for member states to support schemes to tackle this problem.
the socialist group would like to thank you for joining us in raising awareness of this enormous problem with your colleagues in the commission and the council. it is a problem which, as you know, is of tremendous importance. it is sometimes a real tragedy, of course, for young people who no longer live, but who survive, because their illusions are shattered, their personal projects are shattered, their capacity and hope for a future and for citizenship are shattered. so, as mrs berès said, we probably do not have to talk so much about the market, about supply and demand. we are talking about fundamental rights that are being violated, not in a cyclical way, but in a structural way, preparing a drama of unprecedented consequences, also for our society. it is estimated that the 5.5 million young europeans who are neither in work nor in education cost us over 100 billion euros, 10 times more money than it would cost us to set up a real programme to provide them with training and employment opportunities. that is why, commissioner, i believe that, especially for the countries, those which have visited their teams, those countries which already have an unmanageable problem, this is no longer a time for words, but it must be a time for action. because the future of these young people is our future, or their lack of future is going to be our lack of future. the time for action, commissioner, means not just talking about words, programmes and recommendations, but also about means, instruments and concrete measures. we have eight countries that don't have the capacity. we have to give them capacity by removing all the budgetary constraints they face at the moment. they cannot even get into community programmes because they cannot co-finance them. three specific questions, commissioner: do these member states, or does the commission, intend to reallocate these 22 billion to the member states facing the greatest difficulties? can the commission change the co-financing rate? and finally, can there be new financing instruments for those who have no means and who are being deprived, through austerity policy, of the few means they still have?
madam president, commissioner, the truth is that i have a feeling of hopelessness, almost of frustration, which i must share with someone. you're gonna let me do it with you this afternoon. this is the third or fourth debate we have had in this house recently on the situation of youth unemployment throughout europe and, debate after debate, as youth unemployment rates soar - in some member states it is already approaching 50% of the labour force - as many young people are being left without any kind of social or unemployment coverage; as we move from a situation that is evolving from worrying to unsustainable and from unsustainable to dramatic, the commission is once again presenting itself in this parliament as if it were a political commentator, as if it were just another analyst, and not as the real government of the union, which it is and, moreover, which we need. governance is setting priorities, mr commissioner, governance is taking the initiative, and also with the aim of achieving some end, some objective, and the commission is not doing that. governance is not about making a simple restructuring of funds, not even announcing it, to wash your face in public opinion, but about raising an ambitious and lasting and fast strategy to end youth unemployment. governance is not about resigning to a youth unemployment rate of over 20% and settling for a pilot project of 4 million euros, which is ridiculous in the face of the magnitude of the problem we face. governance is not about giving in to the pressure from the college of commissioners or other member states of the council who are trying to convince us that we will only get out of this financial crisis, this new wave of recession, by giving up wages, labour rights or compensation; that we are facing a future of precariousness as a generation. because if it were true, commissioner, that it is only by being more precarious that we can be competitive and that it is only by being more precarious that we can be more competitive, then zimbabwe would be the most competitive country, and it is not. sweden, finland and denmark are particularly characterized by a model of relationships and a model of rights to labour guarantees. mr president, employment is much more than a right of citizenship; it is an instrument of linking up with the system, it is an instrument of social integration. the more unemployment there is, the more political disaffection there is, and that is why, commissioner, i do not think it is good for you to talk about competition issues in order to do nothing about youth unemployment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so, what do i want to say to him? there is, for example, the youth employment guarantee, i do not need to explain it to you. it is a matter of the european parliament, the council and the commission, and it is a matter of the european parliament, the commission and the council, and it is a matter of the european parliament, the council and the commission, and it is a matter of the european parliament, the council and the commission. then you will think as i do, that the least important thing is whose competence it is, because for the citizens as a whole, especially for young people, we are the ones who have all the responsibility.
madam president, thank you very much, commissioner, for the explanations you have given us. today's debate is not unrelated to the debate on austerity and growth and the need for plans to create jobs in the european union. but, commissioner, i think that, in the interests of political honesty and also personal honesty, we must say that the situation in which the member states of the european union from which those who are intervening are in are precisely those states which have to replace their production model with another type of model in order to create jobs and put an end to the situation which has arisen in recent years. so let us be honest too. i would find it easier to demagoguish, but this is what we have collected from past performances. but since we have to look to the future, i think that, to begin with, we have to discard and eliminate the expression "lost generation". i believe that, from the european institutions and also from the responsibility of the states, we must restore the dignity of young people with all possible measures and collaboration between the european union, the states and also the regions. in this connection, i would like to ask you, commissioner, whether you think it is compatible and how effective these pilot programmes will be, precisely in those states which have been forced to reduce their budgets, because of austerity, in training, innovation and youth employment, and whether you think that these youth policies should not be approached in a transversal way, with the collaboration of all the commissioners of the european union, so that they have a multiplier effect.
madam president, commissioner, unfortunately this is not the first time that we have dealt with the question of the wage gap in this parliament. unfortunately, we are talking about a figure which remains stable and which we are unable to reduce. unfortunately, we are talking about an unequal society, where women do not have the same starting position in the labour market and in many other matters. i therefore believe that we are again calling for all the institutions to take the necessary measures to put an end to a situation which we can hardly explain. i think that, within the report itself, we are referring to fundamental issues, to the factors which cause women to be paid less: interruption of working life due to their integration or having to deal with the reconciliation of family and working life, categories in which women are underrepresented. and a fundamental question which i think we must take into account and put forward clearly: if this parliament today is in favour of instruments such as the role of the social partners and the collective agreement, we cannot allow governments, like the one in spain, to put an end to labour legislation and workers' rights through labour reforms. so let us not allow this crisis, these conservative governments, to make it possible for women to be still worse off in the labour market.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. equal pay for equal work is a desire of many european women, a need for dignity and social justice. as long as direct and indirect discrimination exists, the objective of equal pay is not achieved. as long as there is a segregated labour market, an unequal work-life balance, the goal of equality is not achieved. statistics are missing, but there is evidence: 17% of evidence differences. we need positive measures of a legislative, educational kind, and sanctioning measures for collective guardianship, legal action, identifying the non-compliant companies publicly. women suffer most from the crisis and, as my colleague said, it is made worse by many conservative governments. this is what we must combat with a lot of legislative measures.
i think it is clear, madam president, that equal pay is not just an objective, and it is not just an objective of the member states, but clearly of the european union: the treaties say so. and many measures have been proposed - they are in the report - of a legal, judicial, control, sanctioning, educational, etc. nature. but there is also a fundamental element here: we cannot combat this gap without combating another, which is the co-responsibility of men also in the private sphere. we cannot combat inequality in the public sphere unless we also organise society so that men take up their responsibilities in private life and thus guarantee that women's access to public life, to working life, is made under the same conditions. this is a fundamental element if we are to really apply the measures from the political, legal and even sanctioning point of view. it is a previous measure, but it goes hand in hand with this debate.
in writing. - i voted against this report because i am against the eu making financial aid to certain countries conditional on them making structural changes to their democratic, governmental and institutional systems or to parties to the eu's liking. with this macrofinancial assistance, the eu is once again interfering with the sovereignty of third states, establishing blackmail. the fact that this financial support always goes hand in hand with imf support indicates what kind of reforms these countries will be required to undertake: market economy, labour deregulation, privatisation of the public sector. i cannot accept the eu imposing on third countries the measures which have brought us into crisis in europe.
in writing. − abstention. the eu’s macro-financial assistance (mfa) was launched in 1990 to grant financial assistance to third countries experiencing short-term balance of payments difficulties. a total of 55 mfa decisions benefiting 23 countries have so far been approved, amounting to eur 7.2 billion, in the form of grants or loans, or a combination of the two. in recent years inta has been involved in granting mfa first under the consultation procedure and, since the lisbon treaty, as co-legislator. under the treaty of lisbon, the appropriate legal bases for decisions granting mfa are articles 209(1) and 212(2) tfeu, depending on whether the beneficiary country is a developing country or not. in both cases, olp applies. given the diminishing importance of the mfa instrument, we regard any attempt to establish own eu conditionalities for mfa in the eu neighbourhood and monitor their implementation as an administrative task of for the eu which is out of proportion to the real amounts involved in mfa operations and adding considerable burdens also for the administrations of the receiving countries.
in writing. − in favour. one of our main foreign policy objectives is to enhance and foster relations with ukraine and strengthen the european neighbourhood policy, whose aim is to encourage political, economic and cultural relations between the countries concerned and the eu and its member states; we underline with this resolution the fact that the signing and ratification of the association agreement and its effective implementation will require an improvement in the human rights situation, including decriminalisation of political decisions under a reformed penal code, in the rule of law and in deep democracy, with an end to the stifling of the political opposition and with free, fair and transparent elections.
in writing. − i celebrate the effort and results that our president schulz got on his visit to ukraine and welcome the positive predisposition of ukrainian authorities to accept the proposal of ep, such as sending medical experts to assess the health condition of imprisoned ms yulia tymoshenko and sending an internationally well-respected person to monitor the second trial of the former prime minister. the mutual trust between the european union and ukraine can only be based on democratic freedoms, transparency, the fight against corruption, respect for human rights, and the unconditional immediate release of all prisoners sentenced on politically motivated grounds. ukraine has to find the way to carry out these reforms to converge with european values, norms and standards. for all these reasons i will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it strongly condemns all discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. it also noted that the fundamental rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people were still not fully protected in some cases in the eu, and therefore called on the member states to ensure that they were protected against hate speech and homophobic violence and that same-sex couples enjoyed the same respect, dignity and protection as the rest of society. it continued to urge the member states and the commission to firmly condemn all homophobic expressions of hatred or incitement to hatred and violence and to ensure that freedom of expression, protected by all human rights treaties, is effectively respected.
in writing. − in favour. we strongly condemn any discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity, and strongly regrets that, in the european union, the fundamental rights of lgbt people are not yet always fully upheld. we call, therefore, on member states to ensure that lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people are protected from homophobic hate speech and violence, and ensure that same-sex partners enjoy the same respect, dignity and protection as the rest of society. we urge member states and the commission to firmly condemn homophobic hate speech or incitement to hatred and violence, and to ensure that freedom of demonstration – as guaranteed by all human rights treaties – is respected in practice.
in writing. − i signed and support this resolution because it is intolerable that today in europe we still experience violations of freedom of expression, discrimination, racism and violence on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. homophobia is the irrational fear of, and aversion to, male and female homosexuality and lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (lgbt) people based on prejudice, and it is similar to racism, xenophobia, anti-semitism and sexism. the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, and must respect and uphold and promote these values. i therefore clearly welcome this resolution to stress these principles once more.
in writing. − in favour. the challenges are clear: our planet is growing towards 9 billion people in 2050, the amount of middle-class consumers will almost double to more than 3 billion people the coming ten years, according to the fao food production must increase by 70% by 2050, and already now 60% of the world’s ecosystems are degraded or used unsustainably. what europe needs is a new agenda for future growth. this new agenda will demand a paradigm shift, a new way of thinking towards our production and consumption patterns. it will require not only technical, but also institutional changes and social innovation. the new agenda for future growth will guarantee europe a high level of prosperity and quality of life. the roadmap for a resource efficient europe gives the analysis and sets the first steps towards this new agenda. but it does not reflect the necessary sense of urgency. we simply cannot afford to take ten, twenty years for the transformation towards a circular economy. the highly competitive world we live in and the spectacular rise of emerging economies do not give us this much time. the european commission sets the right direction, but is not sufficiently concrete in the steps that should be taken.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i welcome the commission's communication entitled 'youth opportunity initiative', which builds on earlier commission initiatives such as 'youth on the move' and 'new skills for new jobs' and the many initiatives presented in this series of communications, but i have serious doubts about whether the scale of the proposed actions is commensurate with the seriousness of the current youth unemployment crisis in many member states. the report welcomes the commission's initiative to promote the youth guarantee and to allocate eur 4 million to member states to help them set up youth guarantee programmes, which should be supported by active labour market policies to help bridge the gap between education and training systems and the labour market, but doubts that this will be enough.
in writing. − in favour. i also want to stress that the employment situation of young people is highly dependent on the overall economic situation. i welcome the commission communication entitled ‘towards a job-rich recovery’ and urge heads of state or government in the eu to present as soon as possible a european investment plan boosting inclusive, sustainable and job-rich growth. finally, i also stress that the youth guarantee needs to be legally enforceable in order to effectively improve the situation of young people neither in employment nor in education or training and to gradually overcome the problem of youth unemployment in the eu.
in writing. − youth unemployment is probably, with our high level of debt, one of the biggest problems we have nowadays in europe. in catalonia, where i come from, more than 50% of people under 25 are effectively without a job and not studying. this is a disastrous situation for our societies that see how one of the better educated generations in our history has little chances to join the labour force for the foreseeable future. i support thus this resolution, and i want to specially point out the importance of paragraph 19, where the european parliament calls on the commission to prioritise the redeployment of the eur 82 billion still unused from structural funds into fighting youth unemployment. i hope that the commission takes this idea very much into account.
in writing. the 2006 directive reaffirms the principle of equal pay and says that further measures are needed. and since then, nothing. the european parliament already made very specific proposals in 2008, notably on the inclusion of bonuses and other benefits, or the transparency of salary scales. today we are repeating these proposals, but the ball is now in the court of the european commission. the gender pay gap is emblematic of discrimination against women: regardless of education, income or sector of activity, women are paid less than their male counterparts. girls are now more educated, but instead of becoming an asset, they continue to play secondary roles in our economies.
in writing. − i cannot understand how, even today, we still have to call for equal pay for equal work for women in the eu. somehow i feel ashamed to have this report in the agenda today. we all have mothers, wives, sisters, daughters, friends... we know them, we know how they work, how well they work and we know their competitiveness and efficiency, which is even higher than men in many cases. but unfortunately statistics show that women across the european union earn on average 16.4% less than men in the eu. the difference is higher for unqualified women. i hope this will be the last time that i have to vote for gender equality in this parliament.
in writing. − i voted in favour. the motion for a resolution highlights the discriminatory nature of the new quotas and asks for progress on finding horizontal solutions to adapt agreements to the evolving eu acquis. in particular, it calls for homogeneous interpretation of agreements, transparency of decision-making processes, independent surveillance, and judicial enforcement mechanisms. given that the provisions of the agreement refer to ‘employed and self-employed persons of the european community’, it asks whether it is legitimate to distinguish between member states. the motion also stresses the importance of proper functioning of the internal market and of deepening ties in order to overcome challenges in future relations between the eu and switzerland in relation to the internal market.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this, precisely, is not an issue of urgency, because it is a probability announced in a ruling of the supreme court of venezuela in 2008. so it's not a current issue. the fact is that any excuse is good enough to use an issue in the electoral framework, and in politics, ethics must first take precedence over utilitarianism; equity must first take precedence over having pre-set positions towards democratically elected governments, whether we like them or not. so a procedural question, which has already been raised today by the co-chairman of my group, is the system of urgencies in the european parliament and its actual effectiveness in fulfilling the purpose for which this instrument was created, namely the urgent debate in the case of violations of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. and this is not the case. we consider it important and support the existence of regional human rights instruments, such as the inter-american commission on human rights and the inter-american court of human rights. we regret that 24 of the 34 members of the oas have not yet ratified these human rights procedures. we consider that venezuela is currently a member of the inter-american commission and the court and a party to that convention, and that it actively participates in the mechanisms of the united nations human rights council. and so we support the strengthening of these regional human rights systems and we call on the european union to increase its financial and technical contributions. we very much welcome the fact that the inter-american commission on human rights is working towards full respect for social rights, the rights of women and indigenous peoples, and that its procedures are being speeded up. and in that sense we also encourage the government of venezuela and the other members of the oas to cooperate with these human rights mechanisms.
blue card question. what is it? mr president, mrs weber, you have said that the inter-american commission on human rights is a very respected institution. it is so respected that neither the united states nor canada are members, and it is so respected that eight other member states of the organization of american states are not members. it is so respected that another state, without causing any concern to your group, has withdrawn from that organization: trinidad and tobago. do you have anything to say about that? or do you still claim that it is highly respected because venezuela has made the announcement that it may withdraw?
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i am very concerned because, with the number of serious human rights violations that are currently taking place in the world, the fact that we are dedicating this platform which is the european parliament, so important for the defence of human rights, to the announcement of the possibility of a country abandoning an international human rights protection body seems to me to be worrying and, above all, it seems to me that this is called political instrumentalization of human rights, a political instrumentalization which is especially scandalous when we have not denounced and it is not even in the resolution of the right-wing groups that only 24 of the 34 oas member states are part of the inter-american commission on human rights. and those not in the alliance include the united states and canada, as well as eight other states. the united states and canada are not signatories to the protocols against torture and for social rights either. other countries have left the inter-american commission on human rights, such as trinidad and tobago, and no one in this parliament has bothered to denounce it. even within the european union there are member states which have made reservations and exceptions to the application of the charter of fundamental rights and are not therefore under suspicion. look, right-wing groups, do not play with human rights, do not play human rights as a political game, if only for the credibility of this parliament. and, by the way, they vote in favour of the resolution of the progressive groups, because we support the international commission on human rights but we do not criticize a country for what it has not yet done, and if it does, it would be in the exercise of its sovereignty. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue card question. mr preda, unfortunately we are talking about venezuela, which should not be the subject of a resolution on human rights violations, because they have limited themselves to making an announcement of the possibility of exercising what in international law is called ius ad tractatum, which is the possibility for states, in the exercise of their sovereignty, to sign or not to sign international agreements. but since we are talking about an international body which we must protect in order to defend human rights, we are going to strengthen it by asking all those states which have not done so to sign it and to recognize and implement the decisions and judgments of that body, which is not the case of the united states, canada or the other eight oas member states which are not members of the inter-american commission on human rights. so we don't understand why they have this obsession with venezuela.
mr president, i would like to express my indignation at this instrumental debate on a proposal which seeks to judge facts which have not yet occurred; a proposal based on a judgment of intentions, since venezuela has not abandoned any instance of human rights; a proposal which seeks to interfere tendentiously in the electoral campaign for the presidency of that country; a proposal which seeks to drag the european parliament into positions of interference in decision-making processes which are within the sovereignty of a sovereign country. neither the people of venezuela nor the democratic principles of the european union deserve this unseemly debate.
deputising for the author. − mr president, i speak on behalf of my colleague ulrike lunacek. i have to admit that i am not a big fan of the eurovision song contest but the fact that it is happening in a country with such a dramatic human rights situation has concerned me a lot. suppressing freedom of expression in azerbaijan is simply incompatible with azerbaijan’s commitments regarding democracy and the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the azerbaijani authorities should allow peaceful protests and prohit all this interference in the work of journalists covering demonstrations. it is also important to release immediately from prison or pre-trial detention those detained on politically-motivated charges, including six journalists, social media activists, lawyers, ngo leaders and human right activists. i also want to show my sympathy with the promoters of ‘sing for democracy’. it is a campaign launched on the occasion of the eurovision song contest hosted in baku and they hope that their action can contribute to bringing about indispensable democratic reforms and substantial improvements in the human rights situation in the country. i am also concerned about the forced evictions and demolitions of buildings in connection with the major reconstruction plan in baku, partly linked to the upcoming eurovision song contest. i thus call on the azerbaijani authorities to guarantee that the ongoing construction of new buildings in baku is in line with the relevant legislation and that the resettlement of people is carried out with transparent legal procedures and with fair compensation. finally, i appreciate the fact that the ppe group has finally joined the joint resolution as initially foreseen, as at certain times it was at risk.
madam president, commissioner, i thank the committee on international trade, the rapporteurs and the alternate rapporteurs for the work they have done. in general, we are faced with a good gsp+ regulation, which is particularly necessary for certain measures to control the import rules for textile products which could harm european union production. but we are concerned about the exclusion from the gsp from 2014 of certain countries that are classified as middle-high income, countries, for example, in latin america. because what about these middle-income countries that have little diversification in their exports? why not introduce a criterion of export diversification? because this could be done at two speeds: countries like costa rica, cuba and ecuador would benefit from this, differentiating themselves from potentially developed countries like china and brazil. i therefore believe that we must support a transitional period, and that amendments will be tabled during this transitional period to adapt to this situation, to these countries, and to give them the possibility of opening negotiations and trade agreements with them so that they can benefit from it.
member of the commission. − madam president, in line with treaty obligations, the commission has a long tradition of consulting with those affected by a new policy or initiative and those involved in implementing it. the commission believes that consultation is an essential tool for producing high quality proposals and increasing the legitimacy of eu action. the commission is constantly striving to ensure that its public consultations are as inclusive as possible and has taken several measures to this end. since 2002, all policy initiatives that undergo an impact assessment, and green papers, must be preceded by public consultations that observe a set of general principles and minimum standards. since 2010, roadmaps have been published early in the planning process to allow stakeholders to be aware of proposals that the commission is planning to make, and to be involved and give feedback from the very earliest stages of policy preparation. since 2012, the minimum period for open public consultation has been extended from 8 to 12 weeks to facilitate shareholder response. currently, the commission is carrying out a review of its consultation policy. the results of any consequent refinements to the consultation process will be announced in the planned follow-up to the 2010 smart regulation communication. a public consultation seeking stakeholder views on the appropriateness of the existing consultation practices will be launched soon and will feed into the review. regarding the language regime, i would emphasise that stakeholders can provide answers to commission consultations in all official languages. however, while making the consultation documents themselves available in all eu languages could further facilitate stakeholder responses, resources available for translation are very limited, for obvious budgetary reasons. the commission must therefore prioritise the many competing demands on its translation services. the commission is legally obliged to ensure first that all legislative texts are translated into all the official languages of the eu and that other legal obligations are respected. meeting this obligation takes up the bulk of available translation capacity. only once it has fulfilled these obligations can the commission decide on how to make the most efficient use of the remaining resources. it needs to reconcile a wide variety of competing demands, while making the best and most proportionate use of the resources available. to the extent allowed by the limited resources available, the commission seeks therefore to translate as many other documents as possible beyond what is legally mandated. thus, for instance, green papers and white papers are, in principle, translated into all languages since they are considered a political priority for consultation purposes. the commission is therefore doing all it can to make important consultation documents available in as many eu languages as possible. the fact remains, however, that the commission does not have the resources to make all consultation documents available in all eu languages.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i am very pleased to support this proposal from our group, because the resolution aims to distribute the public consultations carried out by the commission better and proposes two improvements. the first proposes using segmentation to reach the most interested and affected target groups in each subject in a more precise and reliable way. the second is that the public should be able to receive the commission's proposals in all the official languages of the union, including minority languages, and that consultations should be carried out in formats accessible to people with disabilities. making these proposals a reality will improve the transparency, the possibilities for citizen participation and the quality of our legislative production. we will also bring the european institutions closer to the people and we will have more and better opportunities to integrate the wealth of knowledge available in european society, both in the commission's proposals and in the work we do here on them. in short, it is better to achieve the objective of strengthening the role of citizens in decision-making processes. this is, commissioner, to produce intelligent legislation and to legislate better, because segmentation works and is one of the foundations of modern communication and knowledge management. and, if you add proactivity, much better. and those were the foundations, for example, of the zabalik programme, which allowed us in the basque parliament to syndicate and bring together more than 1 500 organisations to the activities of that regional chamber, multiply the downloads of initiatives by a hundred and the traffic of our website by a thousand. for this reason, the basque parliament received international recognition in issy-les-moulineaux in 2008 and was invited to present its experience at the world e-parliament conference that was held in brussels that same year by the united nations international parliamentary technologies. zabalik in basque means 'open', sending information to the person who needs it automatically, well targeted and without having to look for it or ask for it, and that made us more open and would also make the commission's consultations more open. in terms of languages and accessibility, this is even more important. it is a question of rights, of diversity and also of efficiency. i have personal experience of this too, because my office sends the new consultations published by the commission to many sectors every month. in short, we do it manually so that the basque users have this segmented and automated distribution. and that is what we are doing: we are transmitting information to all europe, to all the actors, and that is what we are asking for in this resolution. we also encourage participation and registration in the commission and parliament's register of interest groups, which has enabled us to see that not all organisations have the structure to be able to finance professional translations and to send their proposals to the commission in order to improve them. this is a barrier that must be overcome and which also affects disabled citizens. accessible formats are not recommended, they are a requirement, they are mandatory if we believe the word 'integrating' in the strategy 2020. the lack of resources - as you have said, commissioner - is not an argument to prevent accessibility for all citizens. that is what we need to do to improve smart regulation. i therefore believe that this resolution can help to improve democracy and the quality of our work. if not, we can meet... (the president cut the speaker off)
we are particularly sensitive to this language issue in our political group. we represent people who speak official or co-official languages in europe. people who speak many of the languages of this european chamber and also others which are not as widely recognised as catalan, basque, welsh and breton. the european institutions, including the european parliament, are often perceived by citizens as distant, remote institutions with which they feel almost unidentified and whose work we carry out here is unknown to them. this is at best because they too often think that the community institutions are completely redundant, but in times of adjustment, in times of public adjustment which leads to cuts in social rights and basic services, citizens know that much is decided here. in this context, any measure which brings this europe closer to the whole of our social citizenship and to the peoples we defend is of great importance. public consultation is an element of participatory democracy and should be an opportunity to make these european institutions and the work we do here better known, an opportunity to increase participation and also to show that the european parliament is the common house, that the european commission is the european government. we must speak in our own languages, we must communicate in our own languages and in languages which are co-official. we must understand europe in its own language, and thus avoid any discrimination, as my colleague said, in its own language and in its own rights. language often creates barriers to a better understanding and appreciation of the european parliament and the work we do here and in the commission. europe speaks of being united in diversity. it is also important to be united in linguistic diversity. it's important to communicate with a sailor from galicia in our language too. it is important to speak to a person who works in agriculture in portugal, also in his own language. it is important to speak to an industrialist from the basque country in his own language and thus in all the official languages of the european union. public consultations are an excellent opportunity to share ideas, information and good practice. we have just seen this in cohesion policy, in fisheries policy, in agricultural policy, in environmental policy. so, commissioner, when you talk about the resources available, in many cases the member states can share these translation payments, that cannot be an excuse. public consultations are an instrument to encourage participatory democracy and should also take into account the disabilities of people who also have rights.
blue card question. what is it? madam president i would like to ask you whether, with the same wording and the same arguments, you would accept that all the initiatives in this house should also be in a single language, because this would make our work easier. because i have met some initiatives that have been consulted and have received many more responses from organisations outside the sector, which have had it easier because they have an infrastructure or know the dynamics of the commission and have been able to make more contributions than the sector itself.
madam president, this is coal, this is the coal that the miners in spain are not extracting because they are on strike because, although european legislation allows aid for the viability of mining - in spain and in the rest of europe - the spanish government has suspended aid, it has already cut it by 63% this year. and in this parliament, where my colleague antonio massip and my other socialist colleagues have spoken so many times about the importance of coal as a strategic energy resource for europe, we find that coal is in danger. we must rescue spanish coal mining from the brutal cuts that are leading to its demise; we must rescue the 30 000 families who live directly or indirectly on coal; we must rescue the european union's investments in co2 capture technologies that can turn coal into green energy; we must rescue productive activity in places where labour and economic alternatives are not easy; and, above all, we must rescue coal, which is the origin of this european union, from the grip of a right-wing government, without any social sensitivity, which has no problem negotiating the rescue of the financial sector and abandons a productive sector such as coal to its fate.
mr president, as a member of this parliament, and as a woman, i am personally concerned about the fact that ms leyla zana has been sentenced to ten years in prison in turkey. leyla zana is a member of the national assembly of turkey. she is a non-violent ambassador of the kurdish people and of women in particular. she has also been nominated for the nobel peace prize on several occasions and she has been awarded parliament’s sakharov prize for freedom of thought. there are nine charges against her – some of them concerning speeches made in this parliament. we believe that these accusations are unfounded. for all of these reasons, i myself and other meps in this parliament sent a letter to mrs ashton, and now also request that this parliament condemn the verdict and deploy all necessary means to ensure that turkey re-establishes ms lena zana’s civil and political rights.
mr president, i would like to express my solidarity with the workers in the mining sector in asturias, león and aragon in spain, who are struggling to maintain the activity of thousands of workers and their families and of entire regions which owe their personality, attractiveness and development precisely to their historical dedication to providing coal and energy to the rest of society. the government of mr rajoy and minister soria are denying them aid that has already been approved by the european union and budgeted, and which also has residues and other sources that are absolutely acceptable. and this, in addition to the rejection and indifference of the european union to coal, which we know is not true, because precisely tomorrow we will approve the report by mrs herczog, in which diversification is precisely defended as a guarantee of the european union's energy independence and leadership in the global market. i do not see the european union, therefore, abandoning coal as a sector in this overall dialogue. last week, the 17th european coal conference also presented the proposals for the horizon 2020 coal programme, which is why we reject the idea that aid to the coal sector in spain should not continue to be supported.
mr president, i would also like to take this minute of parliament's time to denounce the mining situation in asturias, aragon and castile-leon. the situation of the miners is truly tragic and, moreover, the aid approved by this parliament until 2018 is being dramatically cut by the government of spain. thousands of miners' families are now in the streets, constantly protesting against the measures of the spanish government which, while indiscriminately cutting aid to miners, nevertheless gives large aid to the banks in spain.
the report i am presenting today is intended to send a clear message to the council and the commission: latin america cannot and must not be left behind. the commission's message is clear: many latin american countries have achieved their growth targets and should therefore be considered as graduates of development aid. but while the region has undoubtedly experienced a period of growth, we are talking about one of the most unequal regions in the world, a region that contains 41% of the world's poorest people, a region where 52 million people live on less than two dollars a day and some of whose countries have malnutrition rates of over 20%. these figures reflect the other reality of latin america, and it is here that the european union continues to play a vital role for the region. in this context of an economically strong latin america capable of fighting for its own development, the european union must only continue to cooperate in what they need us for. we do not support the radical approach proposed by the commission which supports differentiation on purely economic grounds, which leaves countries like ecuador, colombia or peru out of our bilateral aid 'surplus' and which, surprisingly, maintains cooperation with a country like south africa, with similar or even better economic and social data than those of ecuador and peru. yes, commissioner, we are concerned about the discriminatory treatment of latin america in your proposal. we therefore call for a responsible differentiation which takes account of other indicators, such as echo's vulnerability and crisis indicator or the gini coefficient. it is also essential that the next development cooperation instrument fulfils its objective of poverty eradication, and we therefore call for the european union's development cooperation policy to be given added value by implementing tailor-made cooperation for each country and region, in order to maximise our economic effort and the effectiveness of our aid and thus avoid sending a harsh political message to our partners in latin america. we are committed to a change in the focus of our cooperation that consolidates the economic and social achievements of latin america; a new approach that implies a responsibility that must be shared and supported by the countries of the region, encouraging more effective fiscal and tax policies and boosting basic social services, investment in science, technology and innovation, and the fight against citizen insecurity. effective cooperation also means concentrating resources on the most vulnerable. the report therefore calls for the volume of the development cooperation instrument for latin america to be maintained and for any possible reallocation of funds to benefit the least developed countries in the same region. the current proposal from the european commission excludes eleven latin american countries from bilateral cooperation. we do not support this radical approach and we demand a reorientation of the development cooperation instrument.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr cortés lastra on his excellent report. latin america is one of the regions of the world that has grown the most in recent years. as the world's largest donor, the european union has made a major contribution to this development and now is not the time to withdraw aid all at once, but to do so gradually, so that these countries can consolidate their rule of law and continue to reduce poverty figures. it is necessary to maintain the amounts of aid for cooperation with latin america because, despite achieving regional growth rates of over 4%, it has the largest pockets of poverty in the world and the highest rates of economic and social inequality. the european union and latin america share common values and interests and must move forward together to address the global challenges facing our societies, which are more interdependent than ever.
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate mr cortés lastra on his inclusive approach to economic, social and territorial growth in latin america. in no case will we accept or vote for a proposal which is detrimental to the rights acquired and the help of cooperation that has been given so far, because to look at latin america with new eyes at a time when it has precisely given extraordinary signs of social growth and progress, even if they are not enough to combat this poverty and social exclusion and also to agree to a recognition of indigenous peoples in the whole context of latin america which should also be supported for their greater participation.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, tomorrow the ‘two-pack’ will be voted in plenary. after six months of negotiations we may have a strong parliament position. we will vote on new rules on enforcing control of member states’ finances but also on instruments that may help us out of this crisis. i am talking about the european redemption fund, an instrument that combines fiscal discipline and european solidarity, which are not contradictory terms. it is our responsibility to show the world that our single currency is irreversible, and that we are not ready to go back to national currencies. in this respect, the european redemption fund is the only realistic and achievable debt mutualisation instrument that we can get in the short run. the european redemption fund is a voluntary, temporary and partial debt mutualisation tool strongly related to fiscal discipline. eurobonds will be for the next crisis, not for this crisis. talking to our citizens about eurobonds as if they were something for next month is populism. we cannot lie to our citizens, ignoring the fact that convergence in fiscal discipline and in a common fiscal stability culture is needed before eurobonds. on the other hand, doing nothing could also be morally unacceptable. while some countries are financing themselves without cost in the short run, other countries are rapidly becoming insolvent due to the increasing cost of their new debt issues. this is why i call on all members of this parliament who believe in the european project to vote in favour not only of the two reports but also of the european redemption fund.
mr president, the growing economic interdependence of the functioning of economic and monetary union and the response to the crisis call for strengthening the economic governance of the european union. the two regulations forming the tupac are designed to promote budgetary cooperation and preserve the financial stability of countries in serious difficulty or requesting or requiring financial assistance programmes. the rules of economic governance have, to date, been unbalanced and provide insufficient legitimacy. the emphasis has been on supervision rather than cooperation, on sanctions rather than incentives and on the intergovernmental rather than the community approach. this approach has proved ineffective. this package must rebalance it. it must bring it back into balance, bring it to bear and also bring it legitimacy. the commission is therefore proposing to promote cooperation, to promote a growth and employment orientation and to ensure greater democratic participation. the amendments i have tabled to the package go in this direction. i think that the ferreira report makes important progress. it does so by introducing a mandate with a roadmap to eurobonds, the establishment of a sustainable growth instrument for the euro area including an increase in the eib's capital and project bonds and the creation of a redemption fund to be applied without discrimination. i think the mandate should also incorporate 'because if we want sustainable fiscal discipline we have to talk about quality of spending' and identify the investments needed to deliver on strategy 2020. it is also important to note that these reports have strengthened the effects of the economic policies of one member state on others and the protection of tax revenues, have introduced the social clause and take into account the role of the partners and civil society. in my view, what remains to be done is to ask parliament for its role. when there are member states, such as spain, which have applied for the assistance programme and which will therefore be subject to increased supervision, i believe that democratic control must be ensured so that citizens are fully aware of the conditions imposed on them and how the burdens are shared.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the valuable work they have put forward. ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing the 'two-package' after having adopted the 'six-package'; after almost all the heads of state and government have agreed on two international treaties outside the community order; after many other european rules have created more community authorities for banking, stock exchange, insurance supervision, for the risks of the economic system. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. shouldn't we stop and apply what's already approved? in the face of the instability that is affecting the european continent, the opposite is needed: stability and legal certainty. we don't need a bunch of successive legal findings. i don't know, my colleagues, but i do.
mr president, we are living in the days of european games. while there are presidents of states who watch football matches when important economic decisions are made for citizens and peoples, we are left out of the game. it is therefore necessary to support european measures to combat the crisis in the euro area, a crisis that affects citizenship, resulting in severe cuts, especially in member states with the greatest economic difficulties and high unemployment rates. i agree with mrs ferreira that policies which go against solidarity break the european road map, but a constructive future cannot be built on the basis of debt and the paradigm of budgetary discipline. for example, where is the democratic control and legitimacy of the scandalous bailout of the spanish state as the sole beneficiary of private banking? is this the example of the european party we want to play in combating the eurozone crisis?
mr president, the situation with the bailout is very worrying. the spanish citizens are not being told the whole truth about the new debt which the spanish government and the state are assuming as public debt by guaranteeing private debt. the spanish government has asked for aid which it said it did not want, and it is ridiculously presented as a triumph, as some colleagues have already pointed out in this debate. there is no triumph, but failure with bankia and all. i repeat, there is no better policy for europe than that sponsored by the french government, behind which we must close parliamentary ranks, because we will not get out of the debt crisis without the harmonious growth of all and of the whole. supervision, as called for in the two reports - yes, all the necessary supervision, of course - but growth is essential, simultaneous, anti-speculative too, as mentioned in some of the measures in both reports and in other reports as well. i would like to ask you to be clear and transparent and to be balanced, as my colleague mr sánchez presedo said earlier.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, let me thank you for a very substantive and serious debate. i think that you share the sense of urgency and determination to pursue our joint strategy for sustainable growth and job creation. these two draft regulations are indeed very important parts of that strategy in order to address macroeconomic imbalances pre-emptively and in order to restore the sustainability of public finances, which is a necessary condition for sustainable growth and employment. let me comment on two or three key policy issues in this debate. first, with a view to the european council in mid-june, we need to define the main steps towards full economic union. in that context our guiding principle should be that, in order to move to further mutualisation, it is necessary in parallel to further strengthen our stability culture. that means, when talking about the prospect of a fiscal union, that more mutualisation of sovereign risk necessarily requires more fiscal integration before it can be acceptable to all. moreover, more fiscal integration requires more pooling of fiscal sovereignty and that calls for a very profound debate on this issue. one important avenue to strengthen economic and monetary union (emu) is to construct a financial union as an essential element of a real and genuine emu. the main building blocks towards a financial union could include at least larger banks of systemic importance for macro-financial stability in europe and its regions. it will call for a solid eu euro area compact, including strengthened financial supervision at european level, a resolution authority at european euro area level and a single deposit guarantee scheme at european euro area level – all these in the same arrangement covering at least the euro area’s larger financial institutions. the basic point here is the same as on the fiscal side: the sharing of risk in the guarantee scheme calls for substantially reinforced regulation and supervision at the relevant euro area or european level. in other words, any step in the further sharing of risk can only be taken on the condition that it is balanced by provisions to avoid free riding on the consolidation efforts of other member states. this applies also to fiscal integration; for instance, the proposal of a debt redemption pact by the chairman of the council of economic advisers is no different. it is often referred to as a debt redemption fund but that is only part of it; it is a pact which has two sides. this debt redemption pact proposal would balance the suggested mutualisation of debt with very strict fiscal rules for the participating member states for a very large number of years. why is that? in order to make it rational for all participants to agree to further risk-sharing, enhanced economic surveillance must ensure fiscal prudence and minimise moral hazard, which again will require a very fundamental debate about pooling of fiscal sovereignty. this principle applies to the prospective construction of both financial and fiscal union. finally, i shall make some statements on spain as well, as i find it is a very important subject at this critical juncture. following the euro group’s positive response to spain’s announcement that it is opting for support from the euro area for the restructuring of its financial sector, the commission is ready to proceed swiftly with the necessary assessment on the ground, in close alliance with the european central bank, the european banking authority and the international monetary fund, and subsequently to propose appropriate conditionality for the financial sector in spain. this means that system-wide and financial framework conditionality will include specific recommendations concerning financial sector supervision and regulatory requirements. in addition, bank-specific conditionality subject to state aid rules would be applied exclusively to the banks benefiting from the efsf/esm assistance. with this thorough restructuring of the banking sector in spain, together with the ongoing determined implementation of structural reforms and fiscal consolidation, spain can gradually regain confidence and create the conditions for a return to sustainable growth and job creation. the only objective – and let me underline this – of this euro area decision, which the commission supports, is to protect the savings of ordinary spaniards and to enable credit flows to productive enterprises and ordinary households in spain. this is indeed crucial for returning to recovery and for sustainable growth and job creation which, of course, is our ultimate objective. it is important also for the whole of europe because this is also being done in order to safeguard financial stability in europe as a whole. (applause)
president of the council. - mr president, i have to say something. first of all, i should like to thank you for a debate which has been very wide-ranging and which reflects the seriousness with which any political leadership must be confronted in the light of the european situation. a great deal has been said, including the crucial question of combining efforts to restore confidence in public budgets and at the same time to create growth and jobs in the european member states. i have listened with great interest to the many different contributions this morning. unfortunately, i do not have the time to answer everything, but there will be the opportunity to exchange even very detailed proposals when we start the trilogue process. just one comment: one of the things that is very crucial is to restore confidence in the political leadership, both in europe as such and in each individual member state. there's no way to that trust through crushing debt. there is also no way of building that trust through budgets that we do not keep. it is simply absolutely essential that we see the consolidation of our budgets and sustainable public budgets as a prerequisite for growth, and not as a brake on growth. this strong focus on getting control of the money we spend goes hand in hand with our focus on growth. it is essential that we build confidence in the markets, but also that the markets hear what is said and react to what is decided. we have before us two solid, sound proposals which help to complete the reform of the stability and growth pact which the commission, the council and parliament have carried out with great seriousness. i hope that it will be possible to make rapid progress and thus also to reach an agreement. it is important that we show that when it comes to basic things, such as adhering to budgetary plans and ensuring a sufficiently robust follow-up if you have excessive deficits, we are willing to compromise. it is therefore now that we can show that the community method also works when europe is in crisis - that we can make another crucial contribution to strengthening our economic governance in the framework which is essential for getting out of the crisis. i would like to thank mr swoboda for stressing the need to act and to start the trilogue quickly. it is important to have an agreement because if we have an agreement we will help to balance the responsibilities of each member state - as they have been given by their voters - to manage the economy and get back on the growth track and then a european dimension which is indispensable to rebuild growth and confidence. the presidency looks forward to the start of the trilogue. today's debate was an important prerequisite and we hope that the vote tomorrow will provide a solid basis for the trilogue to begin as soon as possible.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. we now move on to the voting. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
in writing. − in favour. on 28 december 2011 spain submitted an application to the commission requesting assistance from the egf for 876 redundancies in 146 enterprises operating in the region of comunidad valenciana in spain. the spanish authorities describe the redundancies in the comunidad valenciana region against a background of radical change in the distribution of footwear production. third countries, specifically china and india, increasingly dominate the world trade in footwear, and countries such as vietnam and indonesia continue to increase their share of world production. the spanish redundancies also follow the general trend in the footwear industry in the eu towards delocalisation to lower-cost non-eu countries of most manufacturing sub-processes, keeping within the eu only the higher-value tasks such as product design and product marketing. the commission has established that this application complies with the requirements for determining the financial contributions as laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 and, therefore, on 4 may it adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise eur 1 631 565 in favour of spain.
in writing. − in favour. draft amending budget (dab) no 2 for the year 2012 covers the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for an amount of eur 18 061 682 in commitment and payment appropriations relating to flooding in italy (liguria and tuscany) in october 2011. it was discussed during the 26 march trilogue, when the council considered that no urgency justifies a derogation to the council’s interpretation of protocol 1 tfeu (eight-week deadline for the national parliament’s information). parliament then recalled its reservation to the possible use of a negative reserve, as was the case in 2011 – a mechanism which makes provision for redeployments later in the year to avoid providing fresh money – especially in the current context of shortage of payments in 2012 and the close to 100% implementation rates in 2011.
in writing. − in favour. the decision concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) in favour of italy in parallel to approving a draft amending budget (dab no 2/2012 of 16 march 2012) to enter in the 2012 budget eur 18 061 682 in commitment and payment appropriations. italy applied for assistance from the fund following the flooding that affected the regions of liguria and tuscany in october 2011, causing severe damage to residential homes, businesses and agriculture and the disruption of major transport links and essential public infrastructure networks. the disaster has been qualified as of natural origin and therefore falls within the field of application of the eusf. the council considered that no urgency justifies derogation to its interpretation of protocol 1 tfeu (eight-week deadline for the national parliament’s information) for dab no 2/2012.
in writing. − in favour. on 4 april 2012 the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf. it concerns the mobilisation of eur 1.12 million from the fund, covering technical assistance (monitoring, information, administrative and technical, support and evaluation activities) for the commission. according to article 8(1) of the legal basis, 0.35% of the annual maximum amount of the egf can be made available each year for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. a maximum of eur 1.75 million can be used each year in order to cover the indicated needs for the implementation of the fund. in light of the ongoing debate at the council about the future of egf, the council has challenged the amount of the technical assistance proposed by the commission for the first time since the establishment of the fund, arguing that the amount requested by the commission would cover the start of the next mff period as well.
in writing. − in favour. the treaty of lisbon defines that the actions of the union on the international stage shall be based on, among others, the principles of the universality and indivisibility of human rights, respect for human dignity and the principles of equality and solidarity. it also indicates that the union shall attempt to develop relations and create associations with third countries, supporting sustainable development at the economic, social and environmental levels of the developing countries, with the fundamental aim of eradicating poverty. the eu development cooperation policy, and especially coherence between union policies, plays a fundamental role in achieving the millennium development goals and in the fulfilment of international commitments to human rights, food security and environmental sustainability.
in writing. − in favour. the figures show that there is a ‘body’ of 100 million european citizens working in various voluntary activities, who are able to contribute to the production of 5 % of european gdp. eighty per cent of citizens consider volunteering to be an important element of democratic life and a significant means by which each individual can participate in society. the need to continue to differentiate clearly and unequivocally between the value of volunteering, provided free of charge, and profit-making activities, still remains. so, too, does the essential need to emphasise the role of volunteering in promoting the principles of identity and common european values, such as solidarity and social cohesion, within the eu and beyond. the report sets out many good initiatives that should be followed up and continued in future eu years. the sets of recommendations are quite reasonable and easy to apply in the member states as they stand today. but still, on the ‘danger watch’ side, one of the key issues should be to identify the fine lines between ‘volunteering’ and ‘working for free’!
in writing. − i will support all the initiatives that promote the development of social solidarity, civic values, community management, social inclusion and combating discrimination. whereas volunteering is an informal learning experience, where you can join people of all ages, all member states should make an effort towards developing and financing volunteering programmes and activities. as volunteering can only bring positive things to society, there should be no borders that can limit this activity. that is why i will vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − against. the report brings confusion: confusing critical information infrastructure protection (ciip), cyber security, and the security of networks with the fight against cybercrime – and beyond. ciip protection is confused with the fight against cybercrime, itself assimilated to the fight against anything illegal committed with a computer. the report therefore inserts inappropriate references to infringement of ipr. this is contrary to the internal security strategy resolution (lead: committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, voted in may 2012, rapporteur borselino) which explicitly states that ipr enforcement is not a part of cyber security (e.g. measures on road safety cannot and should not address the problem that cars can be misused for bank robberies). prioritising an unnecessary rapprochement with the us (while the eu is cooperating very successfully with other partners, e.g. australia).
in writing. − whereas information and communication technologies (icts) in the internet environment are an important part of our lives, users need to have confidence in the security of the system, as regards privacy of data and intellectual property rights. this is not only about our personal information, it is also about companies’ information and state security, which must be protected. i will support all the measures that the commission and the member states are taking in order to protect critical infrastructure from cyber attacks.
in writing. − against. a general problem is that the report fails to acknowledge the need for the eu to take a different approach to energy security. it is instead enforcing the somewhat mistaken point of view that the eu (now and in the future) is a heavyweight on the international energy market, and that the solution to increasing concerns regarding security of supply should be handled by securing fossil imports through diversification of sources and routes via the expansion of import infrastructure and a convergence towards more eu-coordinated contract negotiations. the serious problem of the eu’s increasing dependency on fossil imports and the necessary means to avoid this negative development is only briefly focused on in the report. specific proposals from the greens to address these issues by focusing on a strategic alliance on green technologies with nations in similar import-dependant situations and/or with a green agenda was blended in the compromises into poor wording on cooperation on clean coal, ccs and nuclear and fusion research (there is also a specific paragraph welcoming iter, of course). in addition, the suggestion that more room and resources should be given to renewables, energy efficiency, smart grids and energy poverty in the energy community treaty secretariat was rejected in the vote.
the rapporteur. - madam president, madam vice-president of the commission/high representative, ladies and gentlemen, despite the financial crisis, i think we must not forget that the european construction project is a project based on values: peace, understanding, harmony, reconciliation and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, which are written into the genetic code of the european union. and not just in the genetic code of the european union, but also in the wording of the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights. the european parliament is certainly the institution most committed to the defence of fundamental rights and freedoms and has an unwavering and indissoluble commitment to the cause of human rights, which need not be preached from a region, a country or a continent, but must have a planetary or universal character. that is why the european parliament has appointed a vice-president to monitor human rights; it has a body, the subcommittee on human rights within the committee on foreign affairs; it has set up a new working group on democracy and electoral observation, and there is always a chapter on the agenda of its work devoted to resolutions aimed at defending human rights. the european parliament has clearly distinguished itself in awarding the sakharov prize for freedom of conscience, which is a prize founded, as is well known, by a person who left a legacy of peace, respect, tolerance and peaceful coexistence between peoples. in this context, madam president, i am pleased to present this report, which, in the form of recommendations, concerns the appointment of the european union special representative for human rights, and i would like to thank the previous work done by the members of my political group and also the work and support provided by the other political groups. an important point, madam high representative, is the mandate of this european union special representative for human rights. it must work to strengthen democracy and the rule of law, international justice and humanitarian law, to abolish the death penalty, in all activities aimed at defending the cause of human rights defenders, the fight against torture and impunity, the defence of women's rights, child protection and the rights of minorities, peace and security and, of course, the rejection of any form of discrimination. this special representative of the european union will have to work very directly with this parliament and with other international bodies and will have to act in a context of visibility, flexibility and consistency with the background, madam president, to which i referred at the beginning of this speech. and it will have to be a person who has extensive experience, proven ability, international prestige and, of course, a sufficient human rights background. it is clear, madam president, madam high representative, that this parliament does not intend to withdraw the scope of decision for the appointment of this person, since the proposal is the responsibility of the high representative, who raises it to the council. but in this context i would like to stress the particular importance of this appointment and the hope, madam high representative, that, on the basis of the confidence and the mandate that the resolution that the european parliament is going to adopt will imply, you will be successful in appointing this person, who will have enormous visibility in defence of this cause which, as i said, for this parliament implies and implies an unwavering and indelible commitment to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, i would like to thank all honourable members who have participated in a debate that has inspired great passion from all directions on the important issue of human rights. may i refer those who have looked into internal issues to mr salafranca’s report to the mandate of the special representative, and indeed to the mandate that i hold, which is an external mandate. i do try, wherever possible, to answer all the questions that honourable members put forward and to follow up in writing those that i have not managed to address in the course of what is always a short winding-up speech. i am extremely conscious that, in the course of this debate, many attributes have been suggested for this paragon of virtue – the candidate who will become the special representative. i agree with a great deal of what has been said. we are indeed looking for someone who is dynamic, bold, courageous, and willing to engage across the world and to fulfil this valuable and important representative role properly on behalf of the european union. i agree, too, that the special representative will have to deal with many issues which need to be handled with sensitivity and real understanding. i very much hope that we will be able to find, among the candidates who have been put forward by member states – none of whom i have yet seen – the best possible fit, in order to really and truly build on what has been said here. i have made it clear, too, that the special representative will have a relationship with this parliament. that is set out not only in the treaty but in the political declaration that has been made, and it will be an important point. as so many honourable members have said, this is the first thematic special representative, and so it will be important to find ways to engage properly. that will, i am sure, be an ongoing debate. it is important that we are able to review developments and respond to parliament on that. finally, i would just add that the special representative will, of course, build on the work that is going on across the world. i want to pay tribute to the many men and women of the european union in delegations across the world, some of whom work in the most difficult conditions, and to thank them for putting this issue at the heart of the work that they do.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i note with satisfaction, mrs ashton, your firm commitment to the european union's special representative being able to have a permanent and continuous link with this parliament and to work with it. beyond the terms of the mandate, which we have discussed in this debate and which, in my view, should also apply to the interpretation of the democratic clause we have with certain third countries, we are left with the question of the personal profile of the candidate. i was very pleased to hear mr mitchell speak about the profile of this person, who reminds me a little of that anecdote which is told of when, in athens in the fourth century, after the century of pericles, aristotle was walking with his pupils of the peripatetic school and one of them made a remark which displeased the teacher. and when aristotle answered, he said, "this is not my observation, but that of his teacher plato". aristotle's answer rings and rings from the fourth century bc to our days, in the cultural scene, in the technological age and the internet; he said to him: "i am a friend of plato, but i am a friend of the truth". i believe that the special representative must be part of the institutional structure of the european union, depend on the high representative, have a link with this parliament and the member states, but be more friendly to the cause of defending human rights and fundamental freedoms, so that human rights and fundamental freedoms, as this parliament wants, can prevail in this 21st century in all regions of the planet.
madam president, i would like to congratulate mrs ashton on her words and mrs jäätteenmäki on her report. my position will be the same as that of my colleagues ana gomes or maria eleni koppa, among others, and i will not therefore repeat myself. i would just like to express my satisfaction with the support for a united nations treaty which seeks to bring order to a trade which is effectively out of control. we must increase control, regulation and transparency in the manufacture and trafficking of arms. that does not mean that i am against the manufacture of arms by a particular country. my country has a large arms industry, but we have other contradictions: for example, a minister who has been a senior executive in arms, missile and anti-personnel mine factories is now in charge of the department. it is a contradiction against which this greater transparency will be met by the international community and the european union speaking with one voice, not each country in isolation.
vice-president of the council/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, given the situation in the region, let me begin with the crisis that is unfolding in syria. i do not have to say how appalled all members of this house and all of us are by the sickening violence that we continue to witness in syria. security forces and militias have bombarded cities with no regard for citizens. there have been massacres and point-blank killings. we have seen this last week in a village near hama, and the week before in houla, where security forces and militias killed men, women and children. those responsible for these crimes must ultimately be held to account and we must focus on doing everything we can to stop this bloodshed. we are at a critical moment. the situation is deteriorating day by day as the regime’s behaviour reinforces the most radical elements on all sides. and yet most ordinary syrians long for the transition that would avoid bloodshed, keep the country together and respect minorities. if the descent into further militarisation continues, it will spell terrible disaster not only for the people of syria, but also for the broader region – i am thinking especially of lebanon – where developments are extremely worrying. as i have discussed with kofi annan – over recent weeks and most lately on friday – we must spare no effort to avoid a catastrophe. assad has no place in the future of syria. his regime fails to comply with its own commitments and every day underlines its lack of legitimacy. the implementation of kofi annan’s plan is certainly not easy and its viability has been questioned. but despite all the challenges it remains today the best way forward. we have to act decisively to prevent further bloodshed, while avoiding fuelling the flames of sectarian violence. the only way forward is first of all to reinforce kofi annan’s leverage with the syrian regime and to try to make the mission more effective. no other option has been able to gather together any kind of international support. i do pay tribute to kofi annan for his extraordinary efforts in exceedingly difficult conditions. he has the support and legitimacy of the international community through the united nations and of course through the arab league. secretary-general ban-ki moon told the general assembly on thursday that this plan must remain the centrepiece of our efforts. but that alone is not enough. we need to do much more to further isolate the regime, build real and operational international consensus, strengthen international sanctions and press the government towards compliance and transition. as kofi annan himself has made very clear, all concerned – and in particular the members of the un security council and those who have influence on the regime and on russia and china in particular – must unite and apply more effective pressure to move forward to a solution. that is why we need to agree on a road map that reinforces kofi annan and the plan and that involves, i would argue, three key priorities: firstly, a more effective contact group that includes russia and china, to coordinate support for kofi annan and exert influence on the regime. i therefore welcome the idea of a contact group of key actors on the syrian crisis announced by kofi annan last thursday in the un security council. the international community has to show unity in this critical moment. secondly, united action by the un security council to add more robust and effective pressure, including the reinforcement of sanctions under chapter vii and, thirdly, international consensus around a political process and transition. with those three priorities in mind, i have engaged with kofi annan and other leaders to try to seek a new consensus, including meeting last week in istanbul, where i attended a special meeting on syria, and at the eu-russia summit the weekend before. work on the political process cannot wait. it is crucial for the credibility of the international efforts and to show the people of syria that there is a path leading to a better, rather than a more fragmented, syria. but for this to happen, the opposition must finally come together and put its differences aside. frankly, new leadership is not enough. a stronger and more united opposition that represents a credible alternative for all syrians is essential. we discussed ongoing efforts with turkey and we are coordinating closely with the arab league. we continue to meet the different factions and groups in the opposition. now we are working on two seminars that will feed into the arab league plans to organise a larger meeting with them. in addition to our sanctions, diplomatic efforts and support to the un mission, which are appreciated by the un, humanitarian assistance remains a top priority for the eu. innocent civilians and children are paying the price of this crisis. i am working closely with commissioner georgieva to use all the tools we have at our disposal to deliver our assistance. we have already allocated over eur 28 million to address the humanitarian needs inside syria and its neighbouring countries. we need the syrian government to implement the agreed comprehensive humanitarian response plan without any more excuses or delays. last week the commission approved eur 23 million in special measures – i had previously announced that in this plenary and it has now been approved – to support civil society within syria and neighbouring countries who are supporting syrian refugees. while i was in istanbul last week, our crisis coordinator engaged with the turkish authorities and visited the camps on turkey’s borders. we offered further help to turkey, as needed. i believe that turkey is doing a great job in dealing with the refugees, and they can count on our support as they continue to do so. we will continue to call for accountability and support un efforts in this regard. this is something that we owe to the victims. the un is investigating the latest massacres and the human rights council – with our full support – is setting up a committee of investigation. some member states have decided to withdraw and expel ambassadors. our delegation in damascus will remain open for as long as possible. this has been the request of many honourable members and, more importantly, of the syrians themselves. they are our ears, eyes and hands to help on the ground. if i might, i will now turn to the middle east peace process where our objective remains the same. i have been very clear from the beginning of what we call the arab spring or arab awakening that developments in the region make the peace process and a negotiated solution even more urgent and important, not less. while we have to pay – and should pay – great attention to events in syria, egypt and elsewhere, ending the conflict remains a key priority and a fundamental european union interest. the eu and the quartet continue efforts to facilitate contacts between the parties, to resume direct and substantive talks, in line with the statements the quartet has made, both in september last year and april of this year. i have already mentioned in this house the work of jordan and, in particular, i thank his majesty king abdullah ii and the minister of foreign affairs judeh, for their good offices in fostering the conditions to try to see the resumption of these negotiations. we are working closely with them to do everything we can to facilitate the process and i hope the 14 may foreign affairs council conclusions demonstrated to all the strong and principled position of the european union. i have welcomed the recent exchange of letters between the parties and prime minister netanyahu’s statement that the new israeli government will try to advance ‘a responsible peace process’. we want the parties to build on positive exchanges and resume direct talks. we remain unequivocally committed to the security of israel, including with regard to vital threats in the region. we have condemned all forms of violence against civilians, including the rocket attacks from gaza. but the truth is that while the middle east peace process is not making the progress we all want, the prospects for a two-state solution are being undermined by developments on the ground. proposals for new settlements around east jerusalem, the lack of palestinian involvement in area c, the growth of settlements in the west bank, settler violence and the financial situation of the palestinian authority all threaten the viability of a two-state solution. eu foreign ministers at the last foreign affairs council expressed a clear and strong consensual position in our conclusions, forging a common eu approach to developments on the ground. this was an important step forward. insisting on the need to respect international and humanitarian law is absolutely consistent with our friendship with israel. settlements remain the key and most serious concern. only last week i deplored the israeli government’s plans to build over 800 additional settlement housing units. settlement expansion has to be condemned because these are illegal under international law and put current peace efforts at risk. i want to reiterate my call on the israeli government to exercise the highest sense of responsibility by reversing these decisions, in full respect of international law. the eu will not recognise any changes to the pre-1967 lines, including with regard to jerusalem, unless they are agreed by both parties. plans for major settlement expansion around the city’s southern flank risk cementing this, and the prospect of jerusalem as the future capital for both states is being further undermined. as regards settlement products, eu foreign ministers underlined the need to work with the commission to ensure eu legislation is implemented effectively and with as much transparency as possible. we will follow up on the council conclusions, also seeking progress with regard to area c for the benefit of the palestinian population – a pressing issue that was the focus of our discussions at the last ad hoc liaison committee i hosted in brussels. i believe development of area c is critical to the viability of a future palestinian state. israel needs to help and facilitate this with concrete and pragmatic steps. we are also really concerned by recent and increasing incidents of settler violence, which we all condemn. the precarious state of the palestinian authority’s finances is an issue. i have been engaged with them from the beginning of my mandate, working closely with foreign minister støre of norway. i want to thank parliament again for its principled and constructive position with regard to the eu budget as i continue to urge countries in the region, and others, to share the burden and increase their support. on the humanitarian front, of course, the most pressing situation is in gaza. i have visited three times since taking office, so my message and our support are clear. we need to open the crossings in gaza as the best way of improving the well-being of the people and to see goods and people move freely. on the political front, i recognise the concrete progress on the reconciliation which president abbas has engaged in. but i want to stress again that the eu’s involvement in the region is also defined by its commitment to human rights, which must be respected by both parties. we will continue to address these issues in the context of our bilateral relations at all levels. i have been really concerned at reports of palestinian authority restrictions on freedom of speech and have urged both sides to deal effectively with acts of incitement. the extensive use of administrative detention is a key concern we raise at every opportunity. let me finish by reiterating our stated policy, which is a negotiated two-state solution. a one-state outcome cannot be the solution. prime minister netanyahu reiterated last week his support for a two-state solution, and i hope we will see those strong words of his supported by action from both sides to move forward to a negotiated settlement for the people of israel and the people of palestine.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, madam vice-president of the commission/high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to focus on the case of syria and, in view of the deterioration of the situation in that country and the increasing number of victims - including women and children who have been beheaded - i believe that all the qualifiers have been exhausted and that the feelings that best sum up our situation are indignation and, of course, the feeling of frustration and impotence of the international community. it is clear that kofi annan's plan has failed miserably and that other alternatives must be considered, and it is not by observing a minute's silence - as has recently been done at the united nations - and by applying economic sanctions that this situation can be overcome. the secretary-general of the united nations has made it very clear that the syrian president has completely lost his legitimacy and that we cannot get used to massacres being our daily bread. this situation and this conflict are dragging on too long, in my view, with the complicity, in particular, of a permanent member of the security council and the iranian regime. mrs ashton, a moment ago, in this very house, we had a wide-ranging debate on the role of the european union in defending fundamental rights and freedoms in the european union, and beyond our presence in the various contact groups - which is absolutely justified - the european union has the obligation to present initiatives to get out of this situation and to prevent the syrian president from winning time and massacring the opposition. it is also clear that the syrian national council must cooperate, and let us hope that its new president, elected in istanbul the other day, can bring together the internal and external opposition. however, given the failure of diplomatic measures, there are few alternatives: a humanitarian intervention, which is not possible at present because of the veto of russia and china in the security council; political agreements with president al-assad which continue to result in a situation in which he is buying time and applying ferocious reprisals to the opposition, or other mechanisms which ultimately lead to the unleashing - already practically a fact - of a civil war. experience in neighbouring countries shows us that in order to try to get out of this situation in the short term, it is important to look for political solutions to the transfer of power in the medium term. in this context, this solution is very difficult without a military presence and without international troops. i would ask you, mrs ashton, on this point: do you finally think it will be possible to secure a military presence to try to give an answer and stop this atrocious conflict which is now brewing in that country?
mr president, thank you very much, mrs ashton, for your information. indeed, the terrible crimes against the civilian population attributed to both the syrian government and the opposition deserve a rigorous and impartial investigation to convict the guilty. but these crimes must not encourage military intervention as has happened in afghanistan, iraq or libya. these three interventions have given us a much more insecure world - the evidence i refer to, as the example of afghanistan, where you do not know how to get out, a country that is no less taliban than before the intervention. so, it's not the time for war drums. these are times of encouraging diplomacy. i welcome the conclusions of the shanghai cooperation organisation, in which the member states of this organisation, including china and russia, call for the diplomatic channel to be encouraged, for an international summit - as russia proposes - to be held on syria and, therefore, for the diplomatic channel to be encouraged.
mr president, the middle east is undergoing a period of major change. i would like to mention three points briefly: changes are being announced in egypt with the forthcoming presidential elections. i would like them to be clean, to develop without incident and for the parties and society to be able to accept their results. i would certainly have liked the egyptian authorities to have invited european observers. egypt is a key country in the arab world. it is important that a multiparty system can be consolidated there in which the prosperity and freedoms of the egyptian people are the essential objective. tolerant coexistence - not radicalism or polarization - will facilitate the exercise of freedoms, including religious, for all egyptians. what do you expect, mrs. ashton, from this election? in israel i would like the broader base of the new government to favour the launch of negotiations with the palestinians, but i am sceptical about the launch of negotiations this year because of the persistence of the settlement problem, to which you have referred - also the regional and international context, including the electoral landscape in the united states - and because of israel's priority attention to the iranian nuclear programme. now, blocking the process i think does not favour anyone. i do not believe that the changes in the region will provide israel with a more favourable context in the future for the resumption of negotiations. and i'm going to end with syria. unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, things are not getting any better in that country. kofi annan's plan is not working. the violence is only increasing, seriously affecting even children, and the opposition does not support kofi annan's plan either. i fear that the assad government believes that it can crush the revolution by force and that in the end the international community will accept it. it is imperative that russia and china put more pressure on the syrian authorities to change their attitude. i would like to know, mrs ashton, whether at the recent summit with russia this weekend you could sense that there was a willingness in moscow to ease up a bit on its position.
mr president, i am going to make a proposal other than the rhetoric of supporting a plan which - as has already been said here - is as dead as the syrian children. i am sure, mrs ashton, that you have heard of rosoboronexport. it's the russian state agency for the state-guaranteed arms trade, which reports billions in profits. it is also the main arms supplier to syria and its main customers are also the united states and india. russia - i do not know whether you raised this issue at the recent summit between the european union and russia in st petersburg - will probably relax its position in the un security council if, through the influence we should have on india and other customers of this russian state-owned company, its income from arms sales is threatened. in addition, it may also be that both the european union - as part of the international community - and the united nations and kofi annan and his plan, which has failed, will spare us a denunciation by the international community for refusing the duty to help the syrian people, because i think we are already in that situation. let us try other ways, because it seems that the ones we have tried or put into practice so far are not working.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mrs ashton, once again we are dealing with the democratic republic of congo in this house. although it is the occasion of the recent elections in the country, we must again deplore the period of violence that followed the elections and the inhuman violence that persists in many areas. the violence and human rights violations in the democratic republic of congo deserve the strongest condemnation from the european union. this violence, whose victims are always the most vulnerable - women and children - must be condemned. that is why, madam vice-president, i ask that the fight against impunity be one of the priorities in our cooperation with the democratic republic of congo. this requires deep reforms in the country's justice system, in the training of judges and prosecutors and in support for victims, as well as initiatives towards a national reconciliation strategy. i would also like to mention the need to maintain the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programmes for ex-combatants, otherwise we will not be addressing many of the roots and root causes of violence. as you said, the final report of the european union electoral observation mission contains a number of valuable contributions which will help to promote transparency and democratic consolidation in the country. i would point out to you, mrs ashton, that the critically criticized independent national electoral commission received financial support from the european union. i therefore call for greater efforts to avoid any discretion in those sectors and programmes which receive support from european union cooperation. i would like to conclude by emphasizing the synergistic relationship between development, the protection of human rights and the consolidation of peace and security. the democratic republic of congo is no exception. we must continue to work on all three fronts if we are to achieve anything in this country.
mr president, i already supported mrs nedelcheva's report when i was able to accompany her on the mission to the congo with other members of parliament and i have indeed seen that few peoples have shown a greater willingness to make democracy and to participate in it. but to believe in democracy, a people must also believe in their state and their government, and that is not going to be possible with electoral support or outside help alone. they also need a demand to fight corruption and break the indecent paradox of living in poverty in one of the world's richest countries in resources. and it must be said and denounced that some of the violence they are experiencing is imported or at least encouraged by those unscrupulous multinationals from europe or from states on other continents who are capable of participating in corruption without caring to encourage the struggle for those resources in order to win the favour of those who run certain territories. that is why, mrs ashton, although it is not your absolute competence, i do say that a greater requirement of traceability and transparency for european and other continental multinationals operating there would be as useful for the development of that people as the very help we can give them at the electoral and technical level.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, thank you very much again, mrs ashton. i agree with my colleagues that we are facing a failure. and you have to admit it. beyond the image campaigns of nato, which are image campaigns, the truth and the truth is that, in relation to the dates of 2015, we do not know where the peace process is, that is, whether in 2015 afghanistan will be more or less taliban, whether there will be more or less poverty, whether there will be more or less corruption. we don't know about the plan to give an alternative to all the drug fields, opium fields; there is nothing, there is no information. we also don't know what the evacuation plan is, because it seems pakistan is refusing to negotiate a possible withdrawal. so we're in a scenario where, beyond the propaganda, it's true that the only concern, the only data we're given, is that the armed police force is 53% higher than expected. but the rest we don't know.
mr president, i fervently hope that in the next elections the greek people will challenge, rectify, this economic policy which is literally leading us to ruin. the attempt to create a 'european project' on the basis of market deregulation has been accompanied by the greatest financial fraud in our history, with a single currency without a public treasury, with a non-issuer european central bank. we are therefore faced with a financial fraud that must be investigated. we have put it to the house of representatives: a committee to investigate fraudsters. 100 billion to rescue them, but to condemn the citizens to a worse life, to not have good public services, to make them work longer, to reduce their wages and to reduce their pensions. this is the result of this economic orientation which we want to put to the test. it's not about paying the sovereign debt in its speculative part, no. the speculators' deals cannot be repaid, and the citizens of europe and the european project must be rescued, not the bank swindlers.
mr president, last weekend we had different news on the same problem. the bad news is that the spanish government needed to ask for help to rescue part of its financial system. and a good one: thanks to our membership of the union and the euro, spain and its financial system can have that help in the immediate future. bank rescue yes, but without causing further damage to the social rights and living conditions of citizens; bank rescue yes, but with the aim of rescuing a whole generation of young people from the shipwreck; bank rescue yes, but with parliamentary control over its development and its effects. but this does not solve the problem of growth. to grow, we need a strong european budget, we need a debt redemption fund, we need eurobonds, more involvement from the european investment bank, more activity from the european central bank. in short, more europe, the tax treaty, the banking union, the european treasury.
mr president, the gravity of the situation is such that the next european council, to be held on 28 and 29 june, must be perceived by europeans in a different way, as a starting point in the effort to create a new architecture for the european union. it is therefore not just a cold statement of a series of measures and initiatives that people do not understand, but we must be able to find in this council the sufficient symbols, the unmistakable signs, that a new stage in the european union is opening up. it is necessary to establish the existence of a project, a timetable, priorities and, above all, a plan in which short-term measures are as important as medium- and long-term measures. we all know the areas of action in this area. the spanish prime minister, mariano rajoy, has just sent the president of the council and the president of the commission an action plan in five measures. but what we want to stress is the need for a new european architecture that is capable of putting an end to the instability and turbulence we are currently experiencing.
mr president, the next council will have to decide on the financial assistance requested by the spanish government to rescue part of its financial system. it is an inevitable decision, given the impossibility of financing itself at almost 7% interest, with a bond at 500 points of differential with respect to the german bond. but this reminds us that we must change course, and changing course means saying that political union is not limited to banking supervision, but requires a revision of the timetable for the revision of the deficit, the mutualisation of debt and a budget with own resources to finance strategic investments that stimulate growth and create jobs. it also means avoiding a disorderly exit of greece from the euro, and that is a question we must resolve, not in the next few weeks, but in the next few days. but it also means changing an image of europe that is increasingly identified with these so-called 'men in black', who threaten with sanctions, who go armed with a stick, but without any carrot, without any stimulus to growth, without any hope for young people. it is essential to change not only that europe, but the very idea of europe, in a race against time in which time is running against us.
member of the commission. − mr president, as a former member of this house, i know what it means to speak when voting time is coming. therefore, i will make only two short points. firstly, a general one. we are all under the shadow of a crisis but it should not overshadow the basic truths nor justify some unfounded points i could hear on the margins of this very good debate in parliament. the european union, which still holds a 20 % share of world trade – with the share of japan and the united states clearly declining – does not deserve the metaphor of a titanic. we do face problems. they are not national. therefore a national answer is not enough. we should transform the emerging mantra of growth and jobs into reality by a more systemic response to banking and fiscal union, which is emerging, including through today’s votes in parliament. my second short point concerns the multiannual framework, which is part of the solution, not part of the problem. i can illustrate this empirically with a credible paper from the uk treasury indicating where taxpayers’ money is going. the uk middle-income taxpayer contributes gbp 28 to the european union, which is the same as for the fire service. national debt interest servicing is gbp 363 rather than gbp 28. this is the problem. the european budget is not the answer to the problem, but could be part of the solution, via investment to act as a carrot via the structural funds – nobody denies this and it was also part of the anti-crisis resistance in my country of origin – with the stick of conditionality enforcing structural reforms. this part of the answer concerns own resources. mr zahradil was wrong. this is not about expanding the budget but about changing the proposal, fully respecting the fiscal autonomy and the sovereignty of the national parliaments. this is the design for the future: more europe under the lisbon treaty with the same amount of money. i am happy to see parliament’s resolution going in the same direction. jutta haug is right. einigkeit macht stark. (applause)
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i will be inspired by commissioner lewandowski, whose birthday is today, to make it quite short. i would like to thank you for a very good debate with the european parliament, in which it is quite clear that together, in the run-up to the meeting of heads of state or government later this month, we must do everything possible to create growth and jobs initiatives that can bring this parliament together, that can bring the commission together, and that can bring the member states together. there has been a lot of good inspiration from the members of this house today. as regards the multiannual financial framework, i would like to thank you once again for the good cooperation we have. i would like to thank in particular mr lamassoure, mrs jensen, mr kalfin, mr färm, mr haglund, mr böge, mr dehaene and mr kelly for their very kind remarks on cooperation with the danish presidency and on the importance of finding the right solutions together as regards the future budget. in this context, the danish presidency will continue to work closely with parliament, thanking it for the many good inputs we have received so far and looking forward to many good solutions together in the future.
the debate was closed by the tabling of three motions for resolutions1in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
in writing. − deemed adopted without a vote (rule 97 (4))
in writing. − against. greens/efa amendments related to adding vulnerability criteriorn, longer transition periods, deleting exclusion if country restricts raw materials exports, deleting frogs legs and nuclear machines from beneficiaries of gsp were all rejected.
in writing. - i abstained from voting in its entirety because i did not have time to review the amendments and the voting list. these were not available for study until the end of the day before the vote.
in writing. − the european market with more than 500 millions citizens is the biggest in the world, bigger than the usa or japan. that gives us more political power and strengthens our position as a soft power in the world in negotiating with third countries under better conditions. having said that, it is important for me to use this tool to better implement what we think is better for third countries – democracy, freedom of the press or greater separation of powers – while opening up our markets to their products. that, of course, should not be against our industry and agricultural activity, which should be protected to compete on equal footing with third countries. all initiatives that go in the direction described above, which give more power to the eu to protect and defend our living standards in the rest of the world, should be backed.
in writing. - i voted clearly against this report because it imposes conditions already imposed in the stability treaty. it gives the european commission the power to monitor whether euro-area countries are complying with austerity plans. the text also lays down the details of the next austerity plans, which should promote free competition, particularly in public services.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this legislation as i am satisfied with the final text we achieved during the negotiations. it strengthens the economic governance framework of the eu and continues to frame in our legislation the utmost importance of fiscal discipline, and enhances surveillance for those countries experiencing financial assistance. i am satisfied also by the major role for the commission and parliament’s increased participation in the surveillance process.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it proposes that the european commission should be the guardian of the euro-zone countries. it puts those member states with an excessive deficit problem under the increased supervision of the european commission, obliging them to detail budgetary provisions, which is a check, and being able, if they are not to the commission's liking, to amend them. in this way, countries lose their national sovereignty. this is, in my view, a full-blown coup d'état which i cannot accept in any way.
in writing. − i am very much pleased to say that i have voted in favour of this report. besides reinforcing fiscal discipline and european coordination, it includes some ideas that i have pushed forward like making all member states put in place independent fiscal councils to audit public budgetary execution, making cost-benefit analysis on all reforms and investments projects. what is more, the european redemption fund has been adopted. this was the key issue for me, as it is a realistic instrument to mutualise part of the debt from member states and make the euro an irreversible currency. to put in place the erf is fundamental to solve the debt crisis.
in writing. - abstentions from voting. the gauzès and ferreira reports attempt to introduce key elements, but they do not change the neoliberal structural that is killing the euro. in fact, the european commission's protection of those countries receiving international bailouts, such as spain, is being strengthened. in no way can we support reports which shield the already criticised fiscal compact and 6-pack and which do not give rise to a real anti-cyclical policy and effective protection of social rights. however, it includes fundamental aspects which we have been demanding for some time, such as the road map towards eurobonds, aspects of collective bargaining, the assessment of the social impact of adjustment plans or the fact that countries (such as spain) with recapitalisation loan lines are not directly involved in macroeconomic adjustment plans. but the positive aspects can be read as 'too little too late' if the council does not accompany them with sufficient political ambition.
in writing. the report proposes to extend the geographical scope of the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) in the south and east of the region to provide financial assistance after the arab spring. since its inception, the ebrd has assisted countries in transforming their economies into market economies. i abstained on this report because, although i am not opposed to financial aid to the countries bordering the mediterranean, i am opposed to the transformation of these countries into market economies, without taking account, moreover, of the democratic deficits and the social and environmental impact of projects financed by the ebrd, since they are aimed at promoting market liberalism.
in writing. − against. the eu should be doing all within its power to support the promotion of democratic and economic change in north africa but doing so through the outdated ebrd is the wrong approach to take. there are a number of institutions better placed to support change in the region, whether at european level - for example the european investment bank (eib) - or at international level - for example the world bank. we should be focusing on maximising the efficiency of our support through these existing institutions rather than creating multiple structures, which undermine the effectiveness of our aid. the ebrd is a fossil of a bygone era. it lacks any form of democratic scrutiny, unlike the eib and the world bank. it also has a record of supporting unsustainable projects in the countries in which it works, with recent evidence showing its support for projects promoting fossil fuels is increasing. for these reasons, the greens opposed changing the mandate and believe eu governments should also rethink the proposals.
in writing. − speaking as a european and mediterranean member of the european parliament, the extension of the geographic scope of the ebrd to the southern and eastern part of the mediterranean is more than welcome. given the work that has been done by the ebrd and the need to enhance economically this geostrategically important part of the south and east of the continent, continuing the work should be a priority for everyone, as it is for me. giving the opportunity to those countries to better reach the socioeconomic levels that we have achieved in the western part of europe will also bring more stability to europe as a whole and, last but not least, more coherence to our mediterranean policy.
in writing. - i'm with you. daniel cohn-bendit has made it clear that without an increase in the european budget and its own resources, there is no talk of political sovereignty. the current banking, economic and political crisis calls for more europe, but a democratic europe that can implement policies of economic recovery. it is therefore essential that the eu budget reflects the real will for a fiscal-political-banking union. the greens are calling for the eu budgets to have their own financing line with elements such as financial transaction, carbon and mobile phone charges, which would increase own resources by 40 or 50 billion euro and thus enable policies for growth and job creation to be implemented.
in writing. − in favour. as expected, the resolution passed as proposed by the ppe/s&d/greens/gue with a solid majority of 517 : 74 : 89. only alde and the ecr voted against or abstained. all alde/ecr amendments were rejected by the same margin of some 500+ votes. hence, the resolution only contains the call for the council not to approve any negotiation mandate to the commission regarding a free trade agreement with japan until parliament has stated its position. the commission’s proposal for a negotiation mandate to the council is expected to be issued around 25 june. the committee on international trade will draw up a content resolution reacting to the commission’s proposal for a mandate, to be ready for plenary in october.
in writing. − from an economic point of view, in general, i have always defended the idea that deepening the trade relation with third parties gives more economic opportunities to everyone. if japan produces certain car components more efficiently that we do in europe, we should give them the chance to distribute these in europe so that we, as customers, may benefit. nonetheless, all this should be based on equal opportunities for both sides, in other words to the european companies and their skilled workers as well.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. in april this year, a coup d'état by the armed forces took place in guinea-bissau. this resolution condemns the coup d'état and calls for the immediate re-establishment of constitutional order and the rule of law, and for the completion of the electoral process, including legislative elections, so that the citizens of guinea-bissau can decide their destiny in free and fair elections. the resolution also calls for the restoration and full guarantee of fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression and of the press, freedom of assembly and association, and freedom of movement.
in writing. − in favour. the european parliament urges the authorities to fully restore and guarantee fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression and the press, freedom of assembly and association and freedom of movement; it asks for an end to the persecution and harassment of all deposed government officials and those who peacefully call for the restoration of the rule of law. much consensus in the position on the issue.
in writing. − in favour. we call on the governments of sudan and south sudan to stop military clashes and to resolve their differences according to the cpa agreement. we welcome the fact that sudan and south sudan have both agreed to the roadmap and confirmed their commitment to an immediate cessation of hostilities, which is an important first step in the right direction. and we urge sudan and south sudan to show their political and practical willingness to pursue the path of peace by addressing the security concerns of both sides through meaningful negotiations within the framework of the joint political and security mechanism, starting with the unconditional withdrawal of their armed forces to their side of the border, in accordance with previously adopted agreements, including the agreement on the border monitoring support mission of 30 july 2011.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i am against the eu-colombia/peru multi-party trade agreement. the new structure of eu trade and investment relations contained in the agreement neither guarantees nor deepens the necessary social and environmental protection, nor is it geared towards achieving a model of sustainable development and promoting the labour rights of colombian workers. in addition, this agreement completely ignores the economic and social asymmetries between the actors and leads to an increase in inequalities and poverty in one of the most unequal areas of the planet. it is unacceptable for the eu to negotiate a trade agreement with a country like colombia where human rights are still being systematically violated. in colombia, 55 human rights defenders were killed or disappeared during 2011, a 40 percent increase over 2010.
in writing. − against. the greens/efa regret that the ep discussion on the fta is being largely reduced to the aspect of labour rights in colombia, disregarding problems in the same area in peru. in this regard, we want to enlarge the scope from labour to human rights in general. backed by a recent study done on behalf of german trade unions (dgb) by the hans böckler foundation and the wsi institute (may 2012), the greens criticise the fact that the sustainable development chapter of the fta is less stringent than its homologue in the eu-korea fta. in the current fta, provisions mandatory in the korea fta are downgraded to recommendations; clear institutional provisions are lacking. fulfilment of labour and environmental conventions is made dependent on the availability of financial resources in the country! the sustainable development chapter is excluded from the dispute settlement mechanism in the fta. civil society can be consulted on the contents of the sustainable development chapter (soft law), but not on the rest of the fta (hard law).
in writing. - i abstained on amendment no 28 and voted against amendment no 25, because the wording of the same items is very varied and confusing, and i do not have precise details because i received the amendments and the voting list very late.
in writing. − in favour. while the appointment of the eusr for hr and the establishment of his/her mandate is formally a council decision based on a proposal by the eu high representative, the eusr for hr should act and speak on behalf of the union, reflecting the shared and indivisible responsibility of all eu institutions and member states to protect and promote human rights worldwide; the appointment of the first ever thematic eusr should enhance the visibility, effectiveness, coherence and accountability of the eu’s human rights policy; in particular, the european parliament should play its appropriate role in the appointment procedure and the oversight of the mandate during its entire term.
in writing. − in favour. a robust att must include provisions and benchmarks committing states parties to adopt national legislation and to establish a national authority responsible for the control of all transfers of items covered by the treaty and for meeting all reporting and implementation requirements the implementation of the att should cover end-user controls and brokering activities, including registration of operators and the licensing of their activities, disclosure by applicants of necessary information and full supporting documentation prior to issuance of an export authorisation, as well as legislative measures to establish as criminal offences all transfers of conventional arms and ammunitions not licensed by the national authority or in accordance with the treaty.
in writing. − it is somehow strange that nowadays there is still no global regulation of transfers of conventional arms, which goes against our safety. and not only at european level, negotiations should be at global level. that is why the negotiations that will take place in new york in july 2012 are very important. we will take a historic step forward if there are positive results, such as better transparency, national systems and internal controls, eradication of illicit markets which can be used for terrorist acts, and common standards on the import and export of conventional arms. for all these reasons i will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution
in writing. − in favour. we believe that building a democratic society requires above all strong political will and the ambitious vision of political leaders, governments as well as the opposition, aiming at building political institutions to guarantee the human, social, economic and environmental rights of the population. political leaders, civil society organisations, religious leaders, women’s associations in the drc should reach a national consensus on adequate and appropriate institutions, established and agreed procedures through which democratic practice can be implemented.
in writing. − the situation in the democratic republic of congo is still a long way from democracy. there is a lack of respect for human rights, many activists and journalists are suffering abuse and repression, there are a lot of displaced persons and refugees because of the conflict, there is no independent judicial and media system, there is discrimination against women and it seems that the last electoral process was marred by lack of transparency and credibility, due to the numerous irregularities and cases of fraud detected. the drc deserves a better future. building a democratic society requires, above all, strong political will. because congolese politicians are quite open to dialogue and to listening to european values i will support this motion for a resolution.
mr president, more europe, better the single market. for some it's rhetoric; for me, it's commitment. we know that's what's not working. that the member states adopt and implement decisions which favour growth, especially for the young, by removing bureaucratic obstacles. leadership is needed to boost the single market, which is an excellent instrument, especially in times of crisis. but we have to change course. we must return to the social market economy. we welcome your proposal, commissioner barnier, for banking regulation, but it is incomplete because we know that banks are necessary, yes, but dangerous for the stability of an economy. they benefit from what's known as an implied warranty. to advance the development of the single market by providing security and protecting consumers, including the vulnerable. let us work for an inclusive, competitive and secure market for european citizens.
mr president, commissioner, the commission has finally said something clever: there will be no recovery without a strategy to create jobs. i thank you for opening this debate and for the action plan you have announced; you will have our full support. but, commissioner, your communication is not enough. the problem is too serious for the measures announced in the commission. i would like to make two brief comments, because i have only a few seconds. the first is that this communication must break down the contradictions between the public policies of the european union. you cannot, for example, ask - and you rightly ask - for funds to be reused when the states in difficulty no longer have the funds to co-finance the actions because there are other union policies which prevent that money from being spent on training or productive investments. we cannot call for labour reforms and applaud labour reforms which destroy jobs and, above all, commissioner, we need a genuine european guarantee for young people, a european guarantee, not leave it to the member states, because those who have the most difficulty will not be able to do anything. in my country, 100 billion euros have been spent to save five banks. if you spend 10 billion euros, ten times less, to save five million young europeans, that would be real action.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate you on the importance of this commission proposal on the employment package. it is an ambitious and difficult challenge in the context of the current crisis, but we must achieve the objective of strategy 2020 and create new jobs. to achieve this, it is essential to reform labour markets to make them more dynamic and inclusive, with workers with the right skills, and to make them more resilient to economic adjustment processes and to realise their full potential for job creation in times of growth. it is necessary to stimulate recruitment through tax incentives, to promote and support self-employment and start-ups, to focus on innovative sectors with high job creation potential, to improve the labour market situation of the most vulnerable groups, such as young people and women, and to combat informal and undeclared work. but it is also important to note that, despite the high level of unemployment, more and more vacancies are not being filled due to a lack of staff with the right skills. this gap must be filled by better planning for the skills needs of labour markets and by encouraging geographical mobility. in this connection, we must move decisively towards the creation of a european labour market.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, the scourge of female genital mutilation is one of the most blatant expressions of inequalities between the sexes. in some cultures, men own women and maintain that position on three pillars: the use of force, the dominant position they occupy in society, and superstitions and myths. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. this effort must focus on the victims. all women in the world must learn that genital mutilation is unacceptable, for the sake of pure dignity, and men must understand that this aberration loudly spreads their insecurities and their fear of failure. we must therefore act more firmly and decisively, mr commissioner, in the face of this phenomenon, jointly, by establishing a european regulation and continuing with aid for training and awareness raising to eradicate it.
madam president, since i entered this parliament i have not stopped denouncing female genital mutilation. this silent, accepted crime that millions of women and girls around the world suffer from: 70 million, i repeat, 70 million. this is an unbearable figure for anyone who studies the terrible consequences of these practices, which are hidden under the guise of psychological, health, religious reasons, all of which are false. the truth is that ablation, performed preferably on girls aged 14 and even one year old, can lead to death by hemorrhagic collapse and, in the best of cases, cause and bring strong psychological consequences due to trauma. we in europe must fight with all our strength to eradicate this violation of human rights, which violates the right to equal opportunities and endangers health. it is a question, ladies and gentlemen, of mistreatment, cruelty, torture of girls, and this degrading treatment also exists in europe. to do this we must activate all the preventive mechanisms available in our legal system and i encourage our judges to act to prevent female genital mutilation in europe by punishing those who practice it: that the law in europe speaks with one voice when it comes to combating female genital mutilation on our soil. finally, i call on civil society and ngos to become actively involved in education and prevention campaigns. we still have a long way to go, but many of us will not stop because we owe it to 70 million women who have been mutilated.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i hope that the reform of european legislation on the control of medical devices and implants will be as comprehensive as the proposals in this resolution. we've learned a lot of lessons from the pip implant crisis and a lot of the solutions are on the table. the exchange of data, the establishment of alert systems to notify any incidents throughout europe, the improvement of mechanical and clinical tests on prosthetics and the transparency and improvement of the information received by patients are mandatory. we need a system of sanctions that affects suppliers who sell dangerous goods and professionals throughout the commercial and health chain who do not cooperate with this effort of transparency, monitoring and control. it is ethical and scientific, and it is fair to arbitrate compensation for the victims of this episode. there are also things that are not comfortable to say out loud and add here in a week in which financial voracity continues to devour our efforts to save the european project, which contributes so much to the well-being of citizens with issues such as the one we are discussing now. it should be recalled that the striking price difference between the products manufactured by pip and those offered by competitors did not encourage an extreme degree of control. however, the price was the basis of the success of pip in the prosthetic market and this had an impact on the patients, on women. i am sure that with these checks the european medical organizations will ensure that this never happens again, but it is up to the commission to put in place urgently a system of monitoring and control and accountability, and it is up to this parliament to monitor the content of compliance with this resolution. let us hope that, commissioner, you will keep your word.
madam president, we are talking about a scandal, a scandal over the use of pip prostheses, which used industrial silicone. we talk about risks, the risks that have been taken by users, patients, many young women who come in and don't know what these prosthetics are that are being put on them without any information. we see that there are many legislative gaps, many; therefore, we must go further. in addition to monitoring, surveillance and protection, of course, more information is needed because the scandal of these implants, which affect more than 30 000 european women, teaches us that suppliers who introduce these products which are incompatible with health must be punished, because, commissioner, patients who use these prostheses have the right to be informed and, at the same time, to not take any risks, because today those people who put on prostheses and use them do so not only for health reasons but for their own benefit.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by frédérique ries, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on foods for infants and young children and food for special medical purposes (com (2011) 0353 - c7-0169/2011 - 2011/0156 (cod)) (a7-0059/2012).
member of the commission. − mr president, i am pleased to know that the house shares similar views with the commission on the importance of protecting the most vulnerable groups within the population. let me make some comments on three issues which were raised during this debate. with respect to the issue of specific rules for growing-up milks, i have to acknowledge that different views exist on whether or not these products are needed to satisfy the nutritional requirements of young children. i thus see a need to consult efsa to clarify the nutritional needs of young children. i can thus support the preparation of a report on this issue. i am also willing to look into the issues of advertising as raised by mrs willmott and others. on pesticides, the relevant legislation has recently been reviewed and already takes into account vulnerable groups, including children. i agree totally that the use of pesticides in products intended for infants and young children should be restricted as far as possible. indeed, the existing specific legislation on products intended for infants and young children already sets extremely low levels for pesticides – so low that they are de facto prohibitive. on this point, we can accept such amendments to the basic act as are consistent with existing rules. i have to make one point: we have to make a difference between the application and the presence of pesticides. if we restrict ourselves to prohibiting application of pesticides, we will be trying to avoid the presence of pesticides on green fields from now on without really covering the contaminated fields which already exist and on which food intended for infants can be cultivated. therefore, our concentration should be on the presence of pesticides in food, rather than the application of pesticides, because this will also cover any food grown on fields which has been contaminated in the past. on the issue of gluten-free foods, i believe that we have to remove the perception that our proposal in any way reduces protection for coeliacs. on the contrary, we are increasing protection for coeliacs by maintaining the compositional and labelling rules as they are and transferring those rules to a more appropriate legal text on food information for consumers, which will protect coeliacs in relation to both non-packed and packed foods. in addition, this constitutes better regulation and simplification, as a transfer to the food information for consumers (fic) regulation would ensure that all information related to gluten is covered by the same piece of legislation, since the fic regulation already covers the labelling of the presence of gluten in the list of ingredients. therefore, i believe that broadening the scope of the food on which the gluten element is to be indicated will be more beneficial to coeliacs than if restricted to packed foods.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr struan stevenson, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1300/2008 of 18 december 2008 establishing a multiannual plan for the herring stocks in the west of scotland and the fisheries exploiting those stocks (com (2011) 0760) (a7-0145/2012)
mr president, we are talking about herring, we are talking about multiannual plans, but basically we are talking about jurisdiction, about the powers of this parliament and about the need for the council to assume and - what is more important - to respect the provisions of the lisbon treaty and, moreover, to respect also what the legal services themselves have decided. we have codecision and, in the face of this, a political decision by the council is not only calling into question the powers of this parliament - something which we certainly cannot and must not accept - but, more importantly, is jeopardising the future of such fundamental matters as the reform of the common fisheries policy itself. i am addressing those who are absent from the council today, and also the commissioner, and i think that the subject is much more important than some people are giving it credit for. think about it.
mr president, commissioner, i am fully aware that one of the reasons why we have approved the milk package is precisely to adapt the sector to a market without milk quotas by 2015. but it is also true that, as the date of liberalisation approaches, there is more uncertainty in the sector because there is no clear exit strategy; there are also more reasons why the sector is asking us to be cautious and to reflect on the decision we are taking. the reasons for this are, for example, the belief that the vineyard planting rights should be maintained or the sugar quotas maintained at least until 2020; reasons such as the uncertainty in the sector about the real effects of the milk package and whether we will have had time to make a serious assessment of them; and reasons such as the uncertainty about the direction of the common agricultural policy and, in particular, its budget, that is, about the part of the income that does not come from the markets and that affects our producers. so what we are asking you, commissioner, to tell mr cioloş is that we should not pursue a patchwork policy of dismantling our protection system without a serious and rigorous analysis, because the effects on our producers are irreversible. it is a question of putting off the end of the quota until 2015, a date which will give the sector security, and of opening up an open and transparent debate on the mechanisms of regulation, because markets are even more unfair and producers are increasingly defenseless.
mr president, if anything is becoming clear in this debate it is that the situation in the livestock sector is dramatic. as mr tarabella said, i think that the national governments have something to say and i am not going to say anything to the spanish government because they would say that there is no problem with this sector. i will give you a list of the problems facing the sector: the first is the price of milk. soil, especially in my country, spain, compared to, say, france. the second is an industry that abuses its position of power and the farmers' crisis. the third is an industry that tells the farmers that there will be a contract, but that they will set the prices and that, moreover, those prices will remain the same. the fourth is a depressed sector with no horizon, which does not know where to look for a solution. and finally, milk in large areas whose quality we do not know.
mr president, the dairy sector is in a serious crisis, and the only way to guarantee minimum prices that cover production costs and to maintain a sustainable dairy farm structure is through public intervention. commissioner, i come from a dairy country, it is the main milk producing country in the spanish state, galicia. in my country there are 10,000 small farms dependent on milk, creating 60,000 jobs, compared with 30,000 10 years ago. the low prices paid to producers below the cost of production, the agreements between the companies and the distributors, between the industry that pays below the cost of production are scandalous. i am transmitting the criticisms of the galician dairy sector in the proposal to end the milk quota system in 2015. we call on the member states and the european commission to maintain production regulation that responds to the challenges of maintaining employment and wealth as well as territorial and demographic and environmental balance to ensure milk production that guarantees the quality of products to consumers.
in writing. − in favour. the treaty of lisbon not only gave the ep co-decision powers, it also changed the comitology procedures. the commission is in the throes now of ‘lisbonising’ a number of regulations in the cfp to bring them into conformity with the treaties and this is one of them. the regulation consists of a management plan for the fishery for herring to the west of scotland, one of many fisheries for which such plans exist. the plans are, in principle, a good thing since they serve to de-politicise the setting of quotas. without such plans, the council is totally free to set quotas as they wish and frequently go far higher than the scientific advice. the plans include a detailed procedure for how to establish a quota, using mathematical rules and based on the status of the stock, and the council more or less respects those. so that is good.
in writing. − in favour. there are many key points in the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. it supports the commission approach of abolishing the concept of ‘dietetic foods’, but reintroduces the category of foods for use in low-calorie diets and invites the commission to assess the need for a specific ‘sports food’ category. it asks the commission to produce a report assessing the need for special provisions on so-called ‘children’s milks’ and strengthens rules on labelling and advertising. it calls for post-market monitoring and requires delegated acts for updating the list of permitted substances. it provides for special requirements for nanomaterials and more or less maintains current ‘gluten-free’ rules while inviting the commission to present a report on ‘lactose-free’. it stipulates that the use of pesticides should be ‘restricted as far as possible’ and asks the commission to update regularly the lists on limitations of certain pesticides, paying particular attention to the very dangerous substances. as greens/efa, we agree with the general approach to abolishing the concept of dietetic foods and are opposed to the (re-)introduction of more categories. we have fought for stricter rules on pesticide use, for a ban on advertising/labelling milks as ‘children’s’ (or ‘growing-up’) milks, for specific rules on the use of nanomaterials, and for stricter labelling/advertising rules. we would prefer to have ‘gluten-free’ regulated under the general regulation on food information to consumers.
in writing. − as a father and eu citizen i believe that we should push forward all policies to protect the most vulnerable citizens of the eu, in this case food for infants and young children. it is my belief that all public or private actions to accomplish this objective must be backed, step by step, and, of course, with all the actors being implicated. nonetheless, sometimes big steps are needed to better achieve our goals.
in writing. − abstention. the rejection of our amendment seeking consideration for all languages that are official within the eu, and not only those which are official in the eu institutions, was rather disappointing for me. so unfortunately i was unable to vote in favour.
in writing. - amendment no 4: this is a sensitive issue in some member states, such as spain, and requires general regulation in an appropriate legal instrument.
in writing. − in favour. the text falls far short of what we wanted, but is still useful in many ways. for instance, it urges the heads of state or government of the eu to commit to a ‘european investment pact’ before the end of 2012. it states that such a pact could be an important element in shifting the one-sided fiscal austerity approach towards a more balanced one, and could represent a new impetus to push europe out of the crisis if tangible commitments at national and european level are included on investment to create sustainable growth and jobs in key sectors such as resource efficiency and management, renewables, energy efficiency or recycling/reusing. the text points to the energy efficiency directive as a concrete example of eu legislation which could create up to 2 million new jobs.
in writing. - amendment no 13: i voted against because it cannot be said that the european commission 'has forced' hospital facilities to close. as regards amendment no 14, it cannot be said in general terms that the european commission is calling for a reduction in minimum wages.
in writing. − at this time of severe economic turmoil that is affecting the eurozone as a whole and particularly some member states, we have arrived at a turning point. i believe we need to push forward – step by step but firmly – european policies that will favour a better european single market that will boost the economic wealth of the region. that is why i support all those actions which follow this line. coordinated collective bargaining to be strengthened at the eu level should always benefit the workers and thus the eu-based companies, so as to have a more balanced and competitive and productive eu. that should go hand in hand with greater flexibility for the regions or states in implementing the policies, as the eu is diverse and has different political cultures.
in writing. − i am horrorized about how many women are affected for genital mutilation every year all around the world and it is very worrying the amount of young europeans that have the risk of undergoing this procedure every year. even though we say women, we refer to children when they suffer this injury, and therefore, they have no option to defense themselves. and is not only about a medical reason, is about the integrity, respect, security and physical and mental health of that women. is the respect for human rights for that women. i will support all the initiatives that this parliament is taking to stop this irreparabe and violent abuse.
in writing. - i support the view that advertising should be limited to certain types of publications and media but not prohibited.
in writing. − the problem of the defective silicone gel breast implants made by french company pip is the opportunity we have to do it better in the future. it has been proved that controls at national and european level have not worked properly, so let’s change them! in order to guarantee better safety controls and avoid fraudulent marketing. i agree that is urgent to revise the medical device directive and that is why i will vote in favor of this motion for a resolution.
author. − mr president, it is a fact that extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances have significantly declined since president aquino took office in 2010. however, the government’s ability to effectively combat widespread impunity of the perpetrators of such acts has yet to make progress. we are dismayed at the recently-discovered murder of esmail amil enog, as well as those of the other witnesses in the maguindanao case. we call on the aquino government to improve the witness protection programme and to further enhance national law enforcement and prosecution capacities. we recognise the reduction in the number of killings, but still, as many other colleagues have also pointed out, much more needs to be done to protect the defenders. we have to express our concern that the use of torture and the ill treatment of suspects in police custody continues to be widespread. we urge the philippine authorities to increase their efforts to rigorously combat the violations of the 2009 national anti-terror act. the victims of torture and ill treatment and the families of the disappeared should have access to a medical evaluation and be adequately compensated. we therefore reiterate our call for government action to stop all private and local funding of police and military auxiliaries and to disband paramilitary forces and local militias. we also urge the government to revoke executive order 546. it is also important to remember that all these situations are not new. we have been talking about this for years. we expected a new course of action from the new government. i should also like to say that until we see results, this topic will be a regular feature on our agenda in this house in the years to come.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the liberals and democrats have worked for more than a year on this request to achieve a really effective european single railway area. we have worked in a constructive, positive and pragmatic way, and we will vote in favour of this final compromise. we have reached an agreement which is not one hundred per cent what we wanted. however, it took a lot of work to achieve this, and for me it is an acceptable package. in the negotiations with the council, we liberals and democrats had to give in on the european regulatory body which should be responsible for breaking up the physical and regulatory barriers that still exist in the european union. today these barriers still remain at national level, preventing and blocking the free movement of trains between some european countries. instead of this, we have accepted the network of national regulatory bodies chaired by the european commission. we hope it is a first step to having effective european supervision. we have also achieved in this request more transparency of financial flows in integrated companies, greater independence for national regulators, five years for the multiannual contractual agreement and more opening of the market. i therefore recommend that you support the agreement reached in the second reading. i also ask you not to support the request for a polish line exemption, in order not to delay this request. i hope that, after the vote in favour of this request, commissioner kallas will present, as promised, the fourth railway package, which should include the requirement for more separation, more opening of the market and, hopefully, the european regulatory body. mr kallas, compared with the national status quo, in the commission we trust.
mr president, this report is a step forward in liberalizing and making rail transport more competitive. but it leaves a bitter taste in our mouths, because we could have gone further. again, some states, despite the efforts of the rapporteur, parliament and the commission, have held back measures which we will have to take in the fourth railway package. i would like to mention the creation of a single european regulator, the mandatory separation of railway managers and service providers, the real opening up of the rail passenger market and reciprocity. we have gained in transparency, but we can continue to improve competitiveness. as in the crisis, we are also following events and not just offering definitive solutions to problems that have been identified. we are playing with the possibility of offering more safety and convenience for users, real possibilities for intermodality across the continent, better prices and new options for many economic sectors and people who need alternatives and flexibility. hopefully we can do it in the fourth pack. and i am grateful for the great effort made by the rapporteur, by all the alternative rapporteurs and also by the commission.
mr president, i too would like to join in congratulating the rapporteur, who has worked long and hard on a subject which appears to be technical but has so many implications. i understand that most of us here, if not all of us, want to do everything we can to defend our small and mediumsized enterprises, but we know that at european level, and especially when it comes to road safety, we do not usually put the tremendous costs of accidents, including those of the carpenter or the plumber, who have a 2.8-tonne van, on the other side of the scale. in other words, we must be able to put the costs of these accidents and the need for road safety on the other side of the scale, also for the small businessman and the selfemployed. i am therefore pleased that the scrutiny of vehicles has been extended, in this case to vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes, that the number of regular checks has been increased, and that the commission would have to monitor compliance with these checks, because what is required, what is regulated, and how it is implemented is one thing, and that the request to incorporate weight sensors is proposed in amendments nos 149 and 151. my only disappointment has been that we keep the 50 km as an exception for regular buses.
mr president, i would like to add to what my colleague mr cofferati has said, because consumer protection requires stronger protection of intellectual property rights, in particular trademarks and copyright in customs, since fraud can in some cases put consumers' lives at risk. we must therefore provide the union and the member states with the means to prevent the entry and marketing of these goods and to promote the international cooperation needed to prevent the export of illegal goods to the european union. however, it is a priority to develop a balance between the protection of effective protection of intellectual property rights and a tight regulation. we must not therefore be tempted to define legislation which is not based on legally valid evidence, and we must not prevent the transit through the territory of the european union of legal generic medicines which are necessary for us and for the countries of africa.
madam president, i too would like to join in congratulating the rapporteur, mr seeber, for his continuous and tireless work to improve the management and efficiency of water resources in the european union and beyond, and thank him for having set out - and congratulate him for that - that water should remain a public good and that access to water should also be a fundamental and universal right. in this respect, i am grateful to you for having taken account of this encouragement to local authorities to allocate a percentage of the fees they collect in connection with water management to decentralised cooperation actions linked to water, and even the example of the 1% which some member states already implement. i also thank you for calling on the commission to come forward with a directive on water scarcity, drought and adaptation to climate change. i would like the commissioner here to tell us when he is going to present that directive on drought, just as there is already a directive on floods. i also thank the rapporteur for his insistence on improving the efficiency of the use of water resources, since over 20% is still lost in many of the urban areas, etc., in the union. and i would also like to thank you for your insistence on the green jobs that can be developed, and i think it would be good news if the european union could quantify how many green jobs linked to the management and improvement and efficiency of water resources there could be. but on the other hand, i am concerned because paragraph 11 deals with artificial filling of aquifers, paragraph 25 magnifies all economic activities dependent on water, and paragraph 35 deals with water infrastructure. don't get carried away by siren calls, mr. seeber. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. madam president, what i said at the beginning - and i started with that - is that mr seeber maintains and fixes the fact that water is maintained as a public good. and in that sense, i think we must recognize that if it is a public good and is also a universal and fundamental right, then the management by each of us must be as efficient as possible. there are different ways of managing water, i understand where the honourable member is going, but the truth is that there are at the moment public and private formulas and ways of managing water which prove to be both good and bad in some cases. so i stand by the idea of water as a public good and as a fundamental and universal right. and in that sense i support the best management of it, with the greatest efficiency and the lowest cost.
madam president, i would like to thank mr seeber. i would like to make a number of basic points which i think are important. firstly, there can be no water market without greater transparency and a very clear idea and obligation of the countries to determine where the water comes from, that the management is transparent, what water exists in the aquifers and how it is distributed. that process is not designed, it is not a developed political instrument and it needs to be done, as well as the monitoring of aquifers through the digital system. i also think that the issue of shale gas and its impact on the aquifers must be controlled. i think it is absolutely dangerous and perhaps a neglect, and i know the commissioner's interest in having the impact of oil shale gas on the aquifers monitored exactly. it is more, i think, on the other hand, with regard to the issue of drought, that we already have too much diagnosis of drought, but too few solutions. any directive must be related to the agricultural production system and to solutions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i come here with great excitement at having met the brave miners marching on madrid, and also with disappointment at the fact that the spanish government is not really listening. someone once said that the values of spanish football are those of eternal spain. but even more appropriately, if i may say so, armand gatti, the great french writer of italian origin, has just told us that the eternal values of my country are represented by that mineral pillar, by that capacity for struggle and resistance, the same values which, fifty years ago this june, rose up against the fascist dictatorship in parallel with the european movement which, around salvador de madariaga, my liberal colleagues, took a definitive step for freedom at the hotel regina in munich, and which we commemorate by naming an emblematic building of this parliament after him, madariaga. the spanish government has had the ability, by relying on the loyal socialist opposition, to join monti and hollande... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, we want to express our deep concern and condemnation for the coup d'état against the sovereignly and democratically elected president of paraguay. the president, fernando lugo, was removed from office by a political trial promoted by the congress of paraguay, mostly controlled by the conservative opposition, which did not accept democratic norms, giving him less than twenty-four hours to prepare and just two hours to prepare his defense. an illegitimate dismissal, which did not respect the due process or the guarantees for the right to defense, in which the democratic will that decided to change the government in paraguay after years of dictatorship and conservative majority has been manipulated. you have to call things by their right names. in paraguay, there has been a parliamentary coup d'état. this has been condemned by unasur, the oas, mercosur, celac and the alba countries. the european parliament must join in this international condemnation of the political trial against the constitutional president of paraguay. we convey our solidarity with the people of paraguay and i want to say that it is not fernando lugo who receives a blow but it is a coup d'état against that guarani nation and its democracy. as they say in guarani ... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker)
madam president, commissioner, i would like to welcome the agreement reached at the european summit this weekend to save the euro. but i would also like to draw your attention to the problem of european regions meeting the criteria of the court of justice of the european union to be considered fiscally autonomous. i come from one of them, from the basque country. for 30 years, we have supported the real economy and focused on internationalisation, innovation, training and the social economy. until three years ago, we were an example of solvency in our public accounts. we belong to a state which criticized us for this and has followed a different policy. the results are known and our continuous effort of 30 years now suffers a risk premium we do not deserve. the situation undermines the prestige of our companies and makes the interest on which they are financed more expensive. i therefore formally ask that solutions and a european framework be sought for this paradox, which is another good reason for what some call territorial tension.
madam president, i would like to inform this house and denounce to it the vision of the future for research and development of the present spanish government. despite the commission's recommendations that the cuts should not affect investment in research, development and innovation, in spain the cut was 22.5%. we don't have enough researchers in spain. on the contrary, we need more investment in r&d&i and stop the flight of scientists and research personnel, from which the country will take decades to recover. it is unacceptable that only a few people should be funded and that the number of grants should be reduced. spain spends only 1.2% of its gross domestic product. with this trend of investment in r & d & i it is not possible to generate enough knowledge to change the production model. while the current government insists that spain has to reduce the number of scientists, in the euro area they are seen as the main capital for recovery. i urge the spanish government to commit itself, even more so in an economic and social situation such as the present one, to growth, and i urge it to stress that the efficiency of the science and technology system has nothing to do with the hacks that are being thrown at it under the pretext of the crisis.
madam president, i would like to express my great satisfaction at the release of the jurists of the international criminal court, and specifically of the aragonese esteban peralta losilla, who have been released precisely after a series of efforts made by the president of the court and other international organizations. and, in addition, in the face of a positive news of great satisfaction, since i understand that these lawyers have done their job well, there is a negative news, which is the death of one of the pilots of the helicopters that are fighting the fires in valencia right now. at the moment, all the problems of lack of public investment, of the state, are leading to the fact that the fires this summer in spain have started not during the summer, but much earlier, precisely because of that lack of investment. and right now we're mourning the death of one of those helicopter pilots.
mr president, madam prime minister, the danish presidency was greeted with encouraging expectations by a newly elected government at the worst moment of the european union's worst crisis. but six months later, while acknowledging the progress made in energy and in the response to the crisis, the balance sheet cannot be satisfactory because it has been overshadowed by the decision taken in the council of ministers of justice and home affairs to re-governmentalise the schengen evaluation mechanism. this means not only ignoring the area of freedom, justice and security as a european policy in which parliament is the ordinary legislator; it also means ignoring the fact that this parliament represents five hundred million citizens as the only body directly legitimised by citizens; and it also means ignoring the fact that, as was said at the informal council of ministers of justice and home affairs in copenhagen, solidarity, which is a mandate of article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, does not consist in restoring internal borders in the european union but in helping to make common the management of internal borders in the european union and of the external borders of the european union. so i'm going to end by saying two things. the first is that this has affected the whole of the asylum package and the whole of the schengen package. but the second is that political union cannot be identified with banking union or with deposit guarantee, but with the rescue of citizenship, the free movement of persons and solidarity in the european union.
mr president, last week's european council announced, but only announced, a positive turn, a turn towards a more balanced, fairer and therefore potentially more effective response to the crisis, a response which will make it really possible to combine austerity with the growth which is essential. that was the turn taken by the european parliament a few months ago, and by the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament a couple of years ago. we therefore welcome this new direction. this council marks and will mark, in my view, the end of the arrogance, the end of the arrogance of the 'two leaders' pact', the end of the doctrinal arrogance of those who have only proposed rigorousness and punishment and have not taken the social consequences of these at all into account. this decline in arrogance is, in fact, a return to reality. and the reality is that without growth, there will be no jobs, and today we know that unemployment is at the highest level in the european union. the reality is that without growth and jobs, the social crisis will explode and the legitimacy of the european project will sink. let us therefore make the council's announcements a reality in the months ahead, and let us support those countries which are making real sacrifices, such as italy and spain, and let us put pressure on those countries which, having made a decision, are now putting obstacles in the way: finland and the netherlands.
mr president, it has been said that to make things better, sometimes it is necessary to accentuate the chaos. the feeling of powerlessness was such that europe had to react. and he did it for the good of all. because the big winner of this last summit has been the euro. and with this victory, there is renewed hope that europe can break out of its paralysis, and move from reflection to action. at this summit, ladies and gentlemen, it was as necessary to take short-term measures to ensure financial stability as it was to take long-term measures to address the union's shortcomings. in this case, the immediate was essential to keep working on the important. the result is imperative: to send a message that the euro is a common, irrevocable and irreversible project. we welcome, ladies and gentlemen, important decisions such as the decision to allow the european stability mechanism to recapitalise banks directly, which will break the vicious circle between bank debt and sovereign debt, a thesis which has always been defended, by the way, by the present spanish government. it will also be used to intervene in the markets in support of the public debt of countries that meet their public deficit and reform commitments. these were decisions necessary to ensure financial stability, which must be the european union's top priority in the short term. this is not the time, ladies and gentlemen, for certain countries to resort to nationalist maxims and put obstacles in the way. i have already said that it is time to bet on europe. spain, ladies and gentlemen, is putting together and implementing in record time the most ambitious reform agenda in spanish democracy, including a profound labour reform. it is also pursuing financial reform, based on full transparency, all demonstrating its commitment to fiscal consolidation and the achievement of deficit targets. we also welcome the decision to launch a process of further economic integration, through four blocs: a banking union, a fiscal union, a common economic policy framework and a strengthening of democratic legitimacy. mr president, history, in the community first and in the european union afterwards, has always been about not only overcoming crises but also coming out of them stronger. i am glad that, once again, we have succeeded.
, in writing. i am still a little bit excited to have met this weekend with the mining march on madrid, which the spanish government should attend, because it is an image of courage and resistance, as the writer armand gatti said. the spanish government, on the other hand, has had the good judgment to join monti and hollande in the success of the summit, as the loyal socialist opposition, and specifically alfredo pérez rubalcaba, had recommended. let us step up wisdom and prudence on the summit line and close far too many open points. and, on the domestic level, let's overcome, by rectifying, the disaster of labor reform and the punishment of the sick and pensioners. a new europe, more cohesive and stronger, as president barroso has said, and more united, as mrs trautmann has said, is about to be reborn, thanks in particular to president françois hollande. let's support her!
in writing. − in favour. this is a purely technical postponement of the expiry date of existing insurance legislation pending entry into force of a replacement.
in writing. − in favour. pursuant to article 355(6) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union the european council may, on the initiative of the member state concerned and acting unanimously after consulting the commission, adopt a decision amending the status, with regard to the union, of a danish, french or netherlands country or territory referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of article 355. by letter of 30 june 2010, the french republic requested the european council to adopt such a decision with regard to the island of saint-barthélemy, in order to change its status from that of an outermost region to that of a country and territory associated with the european union.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because it sets out the basic principles which should govern the european union's territorial policy process. the criteria for the mediterranean region should be the same as those for the construction of an atlantic macro-region. 60% of the population living in europe's coastal areas resides on the atlantic coast. this region is made up of 5 member states and more than 35 sub-national entities, with varying degrees of political autonomy, and is a source of wealth, growth and diversity. we must propose, as is done with the mediterranean coast, the atlantic coast in its maritime dimension, but also in its territorial dimension, which unfortunately was not part of the commission's communication until recently. the inclusion of this regional approach in the development of major european policies in the field of infrastructure (such as the trans-european transport network) and maritime transport will therefore bring great benefits to european citizens.
in writing. − in favour. launched in 2009, the baltic sea macro-region brings together a coherent set of territories that want to cooperate in order to find better solutions to the economic and environmental problems facing them. this cooperation has taken the form of a ‘macro-regional strategy’, designed to coordinate the existing extensive sectoral cooperation and based on four pillars — environment, prosperity, accessibility and security — and an action plan setting out 15 priority areas and 80 flagship projects. this experience has inspired other projects. one of these — the danube macro-region — has taken its first steps. further projects are envisaged. the institutions concerned, member states, regions and local authorities are working together to define similar frameworks for other european macro-regions that share common traits: same maritime area, same mountain range, same river basin, etc. macro-regional strategies offer new prospects for territorial cooperation projects supported by cohesion policy. they can assist the broad eu strategies, such as trans-european transport networks or the integrated maritime policy. they can ensure better coordination between regional programmes and the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. second reading approved. however, while the parliament and the council had finally managed to agree to postpone (i.e. to the 4th railway package announced for the end of this year) any amendment to the legislation applicable to vertical separation between the infrastructure manager (im) and the railway undertakings (rus), we have recently discovered that the commission had taken advantage of this revision to change the scope of 'essential functions' in a sneaky way, in breach of the rules applicable to revision (interinstitutional agreement of 2001), which stipulate that any amendment to the existing legislation must be clearly identified in the revision proposal and duly justified in the statement of reasons. this is a dangerous precedent.
in writing. − i welcome the approval of this technical but important dossier in order to complete the single european railway area. the aim has always been to introduce a level and open playing field to develop a genuine european railway area comparable to what the eu is trying to achieve in the air with the single european sky. the challenge was to open up markets, limit discrimination practices, and remove both regulatory barriers and physical bottlenecks to competition across the eu member states. today member states receive a clear message: implement this directive fully and stop the status quo in europe. by the end of 2012, commissioner kallas will present the 4th railway package which will include a requirement for more separation, the opening of the market and hopefully the european regulatory body.
in writing. − in favour. in july 2011 the commission proposed to revise the existing tachograph regulation. tachographs play a crucial role in checking compliance by professional road transport drivers with the rules on driving time and rest periods. they contribute to improving road safety, drivers’ working conditions and fair competition between road transport companies. breaches of existing rules and fraud are widespread and need to be addressed. for further information see http://ec.europa.eu/transport/road/index_en.htm" .
in writing. − against. the biggest criticisms we have: the scope is much too wide; for us it should be limited to real counterfeited trademarks and not cover other iprs such as patents, plant variety etc.; it is not up to the customs officials to enforce those rights, it is the responsibility of right-holders to proceed; goods in transit should not be concerned; developing countries have legitimate concerns regarding the interception of goods, in particular medicines, which are in transit and not intended for marketing in the eu: such interceptions interrupt the supply of generic medicines which these countries need; parallel trade should be allowed: it is allowed under the trips agreement and therefore there must be a derogation for parallel trade, in particular because it can contribute to lower the cost of medicines in developing countries.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report because water is a public good which must be protected by the public authorities. water is also a public good useful to productive sectors such as fisheries and agriculture and should be fairly priced for consumers. this is why the effective implementation of the directive establishing a framework for community action in the field of water policy must be firm and uniform in all the states of the union. in my country, galicia, there are major cases of non-compliance with the implementation of water legislation, such as the umia dam, the conchas dam or the failures in the purification of our lagoons. it is also very important to emphasize that the management of water policy must be carried out at the level of government and decision-making, involving the territories and citizens, and therefore direct management should be supported, as in the case of the minho-sil hydrographic confederation. water management must be carried out by public authorities, but close to the citizens, with the aim of making its management accessible to the people, protecting them from more powerful private interests.
in writing. − in favour. the envi report makes a connection to the resource efficiency agenda and transition to green economy, and recognises that water is a shared resource of humankind and a public good and that access to water should constitute a fundamental and universal right. the report also, inter alia: reiterates need to adapt internal market rules to the distinctive characteristics of the water sector; acknowledges that the wfd is a solid and ambitious legislative base, but that implementation needs to be improved significantly; recognises that specific gaps need to be filled by adapting existing legislation and by new legislation to address the impact of specific sectors and activities; calls for legislation on water shortages, droughts and adapting to climate change; and urges the commission to take determined action to bring member states’ infringements to an end.
in writing. − in performing my duties as mep i have always been consistent on pushing to have strong and clear european legislation on maters that affect european citizens as regards independence, whichever state or nation they live in. i am among those who agree that what happens in eu waters could have a spillover effect on other territories; whether we refer to them as nations or states. therefore, it is important to have an eu water legislation in order to avoid these problems and in order to protect one of the most important resources on earth and to have the best policy-making practices in that regard.
in writing. − abstention. on the one hand, ecall could contribute to improving emergency services in certain cases. on the other hand, the commission has so far refused to propose efficient measures on accident avoidance, such as stricter speed and alcohol limits. the greens/efa asked for more detailed information on the ecall infrastructure costs and who would pay them. we also asked for better measures on interference with ecall in terms of false or imprecise information in case of an accident. the answers were unsatisfactory and our amendments on these items were rejected.
in writing. − it is said that with the ecall 2 500 lives will be saved annually in the eu and severe injuries will be reduced by 10-15%. with this service we can avoid the suffering of 2 500 families every year. although i note that there are several doubts about ecall, such as coordination, data protection, public and private added value services, possible false alarms generated by ecalls, etc, i can only see the positive points of it, namely that it ensures automatic notification, faster arrival of emergency teams and that the call is made without language difficulties in any eu country. i will support this report because any measure taken that helps saving lives is a very positive action.
in writing. − in favour. this is a relatively uncontroversial own-initiative report calling on the commission and the member states to take action to make europe more attractive to outside investors. key points in the report are: (i) maximising cohesion policy benefits through highlighting the regions’ comparative advantages and innovation opportunities and their importance for growth, investment and employment and promoting the use of eu funds as a catalyst for attracting additional financing from the eib, ebrd, other international financial institutions and the private sector; (ii) addressing human capital needs and potential through the promotion of high-quality education institutions and education and professional training and the mobility of students, researchers, professors and workers; (iii) ensuring stability and improving access to finance through the eu taking a more active role and committing to a globally-coordinated regulatory response and closer cross-border cooperation, making banks more robust and promoting equity financing to reduce dependence on banks, among others.
in writing. − in the context of deep recession in some parts of europe, it is important that in addition to the much needed structural reforms to make our economies more competitive we take the time to think of how to attract more foreign investment into our continent. europe has to take advantage of its special historical and cultural characteristics and at the same time promote smes and allow regions to develop their own policies to attract investors. an approach based on one-size-fits-all is doomed to fail.
in writing. − against. we asked for a split vote to eliminate paragraph 4, which says that trade agreements should be negotiated even if it is ‘not possible or advisable to conclude an association agreement with a particular third country’. as this was not done, we voted against.
mr president, i voted against acta. this is what the committee on development decided by a majority in its last vote, and in this rejection we have weighed various issues, such as: firstly, that only eleven countries participated in the negotiations, thus limiting their overall impact, since the countries from which most of the counterfeits originate, as well as the majority of the developing countries, are not parties to the agreement; secondly, that we have to go beyond this agreement and avoid the harmful impact it could have on access to medicines and public health in developing countries, and also in the european union. the more than likely negative impact of acta on public health has been reviewed and denounced on countless occasions by ngos, by the special rapporteur on the right to health and by this european parliament. access to affordable medicines remains a key priority for low- and middle-income people around the world. acta requires signatories to enact laws and regulations that threaten the availability and access to generic medicines. we have said 'no' because we have to ensure that the union's policies are consistent with development policy and find other ways of protecting intellectual property rights. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. your honor, you keep mixing the churras with the merinas. he is still debating the whole thing, saying that they have here the photocopy of the document and whether they have read it or not. you see, it is one thing what you say and another what is actually happening, and tomorrow this parliament will decide democratically what to do with acta, and it will do so by a majority. and that is the reality.
mr president, many members of this parliament have listened to the voice of the citizenry, the voice of the street. commissioner, you said this was a yes or no agreement. we members of this parliament also have a responsibility for the yes or the no. and we say 'no' because this agreement is obviously confusing. intellectual property rights and the rights of internet users are not clarified. are we concerned about intellectual property rights? i'm not sure. is acta the answer? no, it is not a solution, because there are two issues to be addressed; it is not a legal question but two political issues: one, the determination of the fight against counterfeiting and piracy; and the other, a new legislative framework for the digital environment, which we have asked the socialist group to do repeatedly, and we are asking it again. this is your chance. don't turn your back on society because tomorrow you'll meet a "no" and have no way out.
opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. - madam president, commissioner, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs, i express the position of this committee in favour of a consistent budget for the european union. the union's budget is a catalyst for investment and it is precisely in times of crisis that a budgetary voice of the european union is needed to create jobs and to provide growth in our countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. for the same reason, there should be a substantial budget for the 'communicating europe in partnership' programme. finally, i would like to point out that the citizens' legislative initiative came into force last april. some initiatives have already been submitted to the commission. it is likely that hearings in parliament will be needed and the budgetary means to organise these hearings should be provided.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. it is not a minor issue, especially since the council has so far focused exclusively on budgetary austerity. here, last march, in a similar debate, i said that they were making a mistake in their policies and that they had to change course. fortunately, it seems that the council is beginning to turn around and we are not only talking about budgetary discipline, which is needed, but also about promoting sustainable growth. so it is important to mobilise 120 billion, but we must not forget that we already have the tools to mobilise and invest in the european economy, and that is the union budget. because we are talking about a budget which puts at the disposal of the european union 151 billion euros, that is more than what was approved last week. the only thing left now is for the finance ministers to follow the path set by the last council and to put that path into practice and apply it to the budget of the european union. i am thinking of the budget for this year and the budget for 2013, because last year we warned you that we would not have the money to finance these policies and these commitments that we had made, and unfortunately we were right: today there are, for example, programmes under the seventh framework programme for research that are paralysed by lack of funding. i therefore ask the council to put an end to this policy of cuts and to put the money into the budget to finance the mandate of the commission and the european council.
mr president, i should like to thank mr moreira for his question on this subject, because it can clarify and shed light on the situation. we are dealing here with the protocol to an agreement on the alignment of the legislative infrastructure system of israel and the european union, but we need to have certain clarifications and i would like to ask you two questions: firstly, are the occupied palestinian territories part of the israeli national market? and secondly, why is there no human rights clause in this agreement? as regards product quality control and particularly the extreme demands on medicines, we are not against generic medicines. on the contrary, we believe they are much more accessible, but we want guarantees. we want the quality requirement. so what is the certification that is going to be carried out, and what knowledge will we have in this parliament about the quality certification of these medicines that are going to be produced in israel?
mr president, financial inclusion is vital if the financial system is to serve citizens and we are to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. it is unacceptable that of the 30 million europeans who do not have a bank account, almost 6.5 million, the most vulnerable, are not in a position to open one and therefore bear a cost that can reach one euro a day. i support mr klute's proposal for a legislative initiative on this and i welcome the announcement by commissioner barnier that he will present it before the end of this year. the european union must ensure access to basic banking services, such as opening a basic account, without price barriers. it should promote financial information and education and responsible practices. it is good for economic efficiency and for avoiding marginalisation and discriminatory decision-making against the most vulnerable citizens.
i would like to thank mr capoulas santos, who has always been a great supporter of agriculture and who we hope will continue to be so in the next reform of the common agricultural policy. he is well aware of the situation of farmers who were waiting to receive the continuation of direct payments. i simply mention the case of my country, galicia, which is an agricultural country, a milk country, as we have often commented here. the budget was frozen for many rural development programmes, and this was also due to the fact that direct aid was not allowed. this regulation, which lays down the rules for the current system of direct payments, is a consensus proposal which is very important at a time when the agricultural sector is experiencing substantial crisis difficulties due to the lack of public support from the member states. this adjustment equivalent to the mandatory modulation is also an important signal. i would simply like to remind you that the budget foreseen for the next reform will considerably reduce the percentage of the gross domestic product of the member states in order to take account also of how the future of the next reform is to be viewed.
in writing. i understand that in the debate on the future of the cap, as part of the mff debate, and on the transitional period for 2013, there are many aspects that need to be taken into account, but they should not make us forget the urgent need to ensure the present and future of our farmers and livestock farmers. the economic crisis is putting the survival of the sector at risk and it is necessary to guarantee the level of aid granted to farms, especially in those countries which are suffering the most from the crisis, such as spain. the necessary financial discipline must not lead to a drastic adjustment of the cap or a radical reduction in existing funds. i would like to express my reservations about a possible single rate, even if it is higher than 50%, because it would mean an increase in the financial effort of the most vulnerable regions, while on the other hand the country is required to 'restrict its budget'. it is a complicated debate, but now more than ever we must step up our efforts to strengthen the cap as the backbone of the eu, not forgetting the crucial support to those regions and countries particularly hit by the economic crisis.
mr president, mr christofias, i wish you great success in your presidency and in your resolve to work for a more integrated and fairer europe. i share the views you have expressed in your speech because we do indeed need a healthier economy, but we also need a healthier society. because there will be no healthy economies with sick societies: sick of injustice, sick of lack of social integration, sick of lack of solidarity. in this sense, therefore, we are facing a historic moment for our continent in which this presidency of a small country can be a great presidency, and i wish you that, mr christofias. and i remind you that you have some very important files on your desk: on migration, on the transfer of workers from one country to another, the directive on the posting of workers, the transfer of staff within groups, the directive on temporary workers and the european globalisation adjustment fund. there are thousands of workers in europe who cannot be left alone in the face of globalisation and structural change. these files are in the council and i hope that you will put them into practice with all the energy and commitment that you have expressed to us today. thank you very much and good luck.
mr president, mr prime minister, a former colleague, now deceased, of your own political group - mr miguel portas - and myself, as budgetary spokesman for the european people's party (christian democrats) group, disagreed on many things, but on one thing we did agree, namely that the structural funds and the european social fund are the engines of growth in europe. the european council now thinks the same and has launched these 55 billion euros of re-programmable structural funds and has included them in the so-called 'growth package'. but, mr prime minister, there are no structural funds and there will be no growth package without sufficient payment appropriations and there are not enough payment appropriations in the eu budget right now to carry out this reprogramming of the structural funds. and, mr prime minister, there is no such thing because in november 2011 we failed to achieve budgetary reconciliation between the council and parliament on this matter. for the 2013 budget, things are even worse, as the european commission is asking for a 6.8% increase and you are offering 2.9%. we think that 'small is beautiful', mr prime minister, but we would like to know how you expect, under your presidency, to reconcile two such disparate issues as the commission's and parliament's request and the member states' resistance to increasing payment appropriations. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. mr rübig, you know as well as i do that there are very different positions in the council at the moment on the 2013 budget from those in this parliament. and you and i both know that without sufficient payment appropriations it will be impossible to meet even the commitments which the council has adopted in the context of the growth package. we therefore believe that the cypriot presidency has a key role to play, not only in the financial perspective, as mr böge says, but also in the unblocking of the 2013 budget. without an unlocking of that budget there's not going to be a growth package. that is why the responsibility of the presidency is so important.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i welcome today’s debate because it is taking place at a very important juncture. we have to remind ourselves that only two years remain of this legislature. we know that the coming years will continue to be a critical time for europeans, for their jobs and for their communities. but it will also be a crucial moment for pursuing reforms to renew and secure the resilience of our economic and social model. in the past few years, the european union has proven to be an indispensible player in the struggle to tackle the crisis. together, we have provided targeted solutions to immediate urgencies, and we have kept the focus on europe’s long-term challenges. we have also put in place a new economic governance, reshaped our whole system of financial regulation and supervision, and kept jobs at the core of our work. the close partnership between our institutions has already delivered results. now we have to drive ahead, with the right balance between sound public finances, structural reforms and targeted investment. in this context, your efforts to secure an ambitious agreement on the multiannual financial framework are crucial in order to leverage the strategic investment in growth and jobs at european level. these elements form a solid foundation as we set out to define the eu’s political priorities for the coming years. we have results to build on. the individual motions for resolutions put forward by the groups underline the existence of a broad-based consensus across the political spectrum and across institutions as to how the eu dimension can make a real difference at a time of great economic pressure. it is also an important indication of our converging priorities that a considerable number of initiatives upon which parliament and its committees have been reflecting are being actively worked on by the commission, and their adoption by the commission is already anticipated for later this year. in the state of the union debate, which is scheduled for 12 september, president barroso will set out the main directions for the coming year. our focus will clearly remain on fostering a job-rich and sustainable economic recovery based on the europe 2020 strategy. during the european semesters, we have seen more and more mainstreaming of eu 2020 strategy principles and headline goals in the country-specific recommendations and in the national reform programmes. as you know very well, we have just concluded the second european semester, and the country-specific recommendations provide clear guidance to member states in pursuing national reforms to generate jobs and growth in the short, medium and long term. action at european level in the coming years should aim to enhance and complement these efforts, where the case for the union added value is strong. following the european council last week, the eu can now move forward with determination towards an ambitious new phase in economic and monetary union. this is clearly the right choice for the eu, and an encouraging step in the face of today’s unprecedented challenges. needless to say, for this work to be successful, it should rest first and foremost on laws passed under the community method with the full involvement of this parliament. at the same time, we should maintain momentum in the continuous process of deepening the single market by creating conditions for thriving network industries and services; completing the digital agenda; ensuring sustainability and resource efficiency; delivering a modern industrial policy; empowering people through skills and education; protecting citizens’ rights; and promoting a strong europe that makes its positive mark on the world. as always, it is through concrete results that europe is built.as we have agreed in our framework agreement, the state of the union debate will launch an intensive phase in our ongoing structured dialogue on the future political priorities. the commission looks forward to these discussions and to the clear convergence of views that they can foster. the meeting between the conference of committee chairs and the college, planned for 2 october, will be an important opportunity to take stock of the dialogue ahead of the adoption of the work programme. ultimately, the success of our political agenda relies on constructive cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission; on swift progress in political deliberations; and on consistent implementation of legislation on the ground in the member states. only when we act jointly and with determination can europe deliver the solutions that our citizens, our companies and our businesses need. today’s debate is an important step in this direction.
i am glad that the commissioner has taken this opportunity to express his views on the amendments which have been tabled. there was a loud, prolonged and widespread applause for the president of the commission. intense because it was not formal or protocol, prolonged because it lasted a long time, and widespread because virtually the whole house applauded the president of the commission on two grounds: firstly, his attitude, the attitude of defending the general interests of the union at the european council meeting last week, as opposed to defending the particular interests of some or many heads of state or government. this attitude was recognised by the president of the european parliament, mr schulz, and is appreciated by this parliament, which not in vain represents the vast majority, the totality of european citizens; but it was also applauded by a common concern of the commission and parliament, a common concern about the deterioration of the situation in the european union, caused by the economic crisis, which is damaging the lives of citizens, their conditions and creating poverty in the union, a concern about the growth of euroscepticism, the growth of extremist options in different countries of the union, and a common concern also about the deterioration of institutional relations within the union. the commission and parliament are seeing a part of our powers stripped away by the growing intergovernmentalism and the lack of a community method in many of the relevant decisions being taken. there was therefore a consciousness in this parliament that we had to work together to defend those interests of the citizens. i think we must also work in this parliament to get a common resolution which expresses a widely shared position of demanding the commission and also supporting the commission when it does what parliament asks it to do. my group wants an ambitious commission work programme, which stimulates growth, jobs, quality of life, which restores citizens' confidence, it wants better economic governance, it wants a good multiannual financial framework, it wants the creation of a european redemption fund, a roadmap for stability bonds, better anti-fraud, the strengthening of the european semester, the development of bonds and a correct level of payment appropriations for 2013. i would point out to the president that the majority of the groups have decided to postpone the vote until september in order to have more time to reach a joint resolution which finally expresses a united voice of this parliament, demanding and supporting the commission.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers who spoke on behalf of the political groups. i think the debate very clearly highlighted a very strong convergence between the commission’s work programme plans for 2013 and the priorities of this house and of the political groups. i think that we would all agree with what mr szájer said, and we should not leave our next generation with debts, but with sustainable jobs. this is exactly what we are proposing, and the measures we are putting in place should deliver those results. therefore, the commission would always advocate smart consolidation where we realise we have to liberate our member states from an excessive debt burden and we have to do it in a way which would not harm pro-growth policies, policies which create jobs and growth. i think that it was very much reflected in the discussions we had with the member states under the new umbrella of economic governance and in our country-specific recommendations. another priority which was clearly highlighted by all speakers was unemployment, and especially youth unemployment, where unfortunately we have crossed the threshold of 7.5 million so-called neets, which means young people who are not in employment, education or training. therefore, we started the pilot project with eight member states, and this project has already given concrete results. we managed to reallocate more than eur 7 billion of eu funds precisely for the purpose of creating new jobs, and we believe that this reallocation will help us to create 460 000 new jobs for young unemployed people in europe. we want to learn from this experience and probably expand this programme to other member states which might be facing similar problems. on top of this, by the end of this year we will be coming to you with a proposal for a common framework on a youth guarantee to help young people to find their first employment. i very much agree with all of the speakers who have been pleading for the acceleration of work on the digital single market. it is very clear that this is an instrument for job creation and for increasing the gdp of the european union. our modest expectation is that, if we manage to fulfil all our goals in this area, we will increase the eu budget by 4% of gdp by as early as 2020. speaking of red tape, i think that we have to work on this together. we are greatly encouraged by the very positive developments in our negotiations on the financial regulations. as you know very well, we delivered on our promise to reduce the administrative burden by more than 30% this year, and we now have to work very closely with the member states in order that they implement this new approach and actually get rid of gold-plating and proceed with a simplification as well. i agree with andrew and enrique, who said that the european citizens must see that the european institutions are here for them, that we are here to defend european citizens, and that we do so by respecting the community method and by progressing with our political plans for the establishment of a clear banking, fiscal and political union. we will do it as was suggested by our colleague from the green party: by a holistic approach aimed at sustainable development. concerning the financial transaction tax: i think it was clearly established at the last ecofin meeting that we will not get unanimity for the proposal. therefore, the commission will proceed and make a proposal to introduce the ftt through the enhanced cooperation mechanism. i think that i have to thank mr harbour for highlighting the importance of single market act i and of our plans for single market act ii, because it is quite obvious that the single market is the best instrument that we have for creating new job opportunities and new economic growth. as you know both of our institutions – the commission and the european parliament – wanted to proceed with better planning on how to achieve the single market act faster through interinstitutional agreements, which would help us to work better on our timetables and which would guarantee the fast adoption of the good proposals. now we know that this proposal was not welcomed with the same enthusiasm on the council’s side, but we will continue the discussion with them on how we can deliver on this single market act much faster than before. i think that, concerning the last two points mentioned, we have already discussed the importance of a good multiannual financial framework and of the importance of the eu budget, both of which are our very important investment tools. concerning the trade policies, i believe that europe is a very good trading partner. we are a major trading block. we did not yield to other trading partners, for example the united states and japan, and i think that we have to look to the emerging economies for additional growth and to increase our trade volume, and this must, of course, be based on fair and mutually acceptable principles.
i also want to make a statement on behalf of the president. as you know, ladies and gentlemen, in spain, in the valencian community, one of the worst forest fires in the last 20 years has been raging since last week. more than 48 000 hectares of forest have been burned in the towns of andilla and cortes de pallás. these fires, unfortunately, have claimed the life of a helicopter pilot who was involved in the extinguishing work. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express our deepest sympathy to the family of this pilot and our appreciation for the selfless work of all those involved in this fight against fire.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
mr posselt, the services have examined this amendment and the result of their examination is reflected in the order of voting which we are going to follow. - before the vote on paragraph 88:
mr president, this morning we had a debate on the resolution on the commission's work programme, but several political groups representing a very large majority in this house have decided to ask for the vote on this resolution to be postponed until september, in order to take account of the agreements reached at the european council and the resolution we have just adopted on the european council, and to be able to mature with greater serenity a joint resolution expressing the voice of this parliament in the face of the work of the commission in the last period of its mandate.
we have now reached the end of the voting period.
in writing. − in favour. the rapporteur considered that the procedure defined in article 11 of regulation no 73/2009 (financial discipline mechanism) may no longer be applied without the involvement of the european parliament, in light of the lisbon treaty provisions on the cap and the budgetary procedure. these amendments which concern cross-compliance, as well as the possibility for member states to exempt farmers not applying for area-related payments and declaring only small areas (less than 1 hectare) from the requirement of an area declaration, will mainly concern livestock producers without any eligible land to apply for area-related payments. the amendment reduces slightly the administrative burden for a few member states.
in writing. − in favour. natura 2000 support is extended to areas referred to in article 10 of the habitats directive (92/43/eec); also the number of annual progress and summary reports under rd is reduced; cross-compliance controls are facilitated and the rules for the use of advisory services are changed. besides this as a (legal) element of simplification, an incentive element should be introduced for measures approved under art.43 tfeu (co-financed measures within rd). that means that aid which is granted retroactively in respect of activities which have already been undertaken by the beneficiary and miss the incentive element would therefore be prohibited and a starting date of eligibility should be provided.
in writing. − in favour. the rapporteur, and the agri committee voting in favour, consider that the commission proposal on the single cmo has not respected the principle that article 43(3) tfeu needs to be interpreted restrictively. they consider that defining conditions and criteria for fixing aid amounts, export refunds and minimum export prices should remain with the legislators, leaving to the commission only the fixing of amounts through implementing acts. therefore in the report he deleted all provisions related to article 43(3) tfeu and replaced them by the respective content laid down in the commission proposal for a council regulation (which reproduces the corresponding provisions of the existing single cmo regulation no 1234/2007). this approach is more pragmatic and also sensible from a procedural point of view (lege artis).
in writing. − in favour. in order to better take account of the expectations of consumers regarding the quality of organic products and to ensure the adequate application of rules by the authorities, bodies and operators concerned and the proper functioning of the single market and trade, the commission shall, by means of delegated acts, adopt specific rules, measures and conditions necessary for the application of this regulation (e.g. the authorisation of products and substances for use in organic production, their inclusion in a restricted list or the withdrawal from that list for the purposes of articles 16 and 21; the processing methods for processed food; the conditions of application of the prohibition on the use of gmos and products produced from or by gmos; the labelling rules, requirements and specific criteria as regards presentation, composition, size and design of the organic logo of the european union as well as the conditions and rights of its use, in accordance with title iv etc.)
in writing. − with the accession of russia to the wto in december 2011, the eu needs to align specific rules it maintained bilaterally within the framework of the eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) with the prevailing wto law. this dossier carries out this alignment in the field of trade in services.
in writing. − in favour. the russian government has, for several years, sought to attract foreign producers of cars and car components to set up shop on russia’s territory to compensate for the decline of its own car industry and to provide jobs for the workforce in this sector. its regime for foreign investments in the automotive sector – initiated in 2005 and extended to car components in 2006 – was made more stringent in 2010, to the point that, upon russia’s accession to the world trade organization, it would have been declared contrary to the wto agreement on trade-related investment measures (trims). however, according to the wto accession protocol, russia has until july 2018 to bring these measures into conformity with wto rules.
in writing. − in favour. this bilateral agreement with the russian federation was negotiated in the framework of the process of the federation’s accession to the world trade organization. it was submitted to parliament for consent, which is a prerequisite for the official conclusion of the agreement by the council. in the context of its accession to the wto, the russian federation has committed to reducing gradually or eliminating its existing export duties on a list of raw materials. these commitments regarding export duty rates have been included in russia’s schedule of concessions and commitments on goods. however, the russian understanding is that the list in the schedule does not preclude any new or additional export duties on any raw materials not included therein. it is in order to prevent such new export duty restrictions that the eu negotiated this agreement with russia.
in writing. − against. the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) has today been consigned to history. the greens/efa group has been voicing its concerns about this agreement since the outset of the shadowy negotiations, along with an ever-growing number of citizens. we welcome the support of a decisive majority of meps for rejecting acta today: this is the just and democratic response to the mass mobilisation against the agreement by citizens across europe. in addition to concerns about data protection and internet freedom, there were equally legitimate concerns about the potentially far-reaching implications of acta for fundamental rights, freedom of establishment and access to vital medicines. we welcome the fact that we can now move on from this sorry chapter. this vote is a milestone for european democracy and for the political debate on intellectual property protection in the digital age. the eu must now begin an honest debate on intellectual property rights. a good start would be to recognise that there can be no sweeping, once-size-fits-all approach to intellectual property enforcement. instead, there is a need to assess the different challenges facing different economic sectors and different aspects of intellectual property, and to develop individual solutions for these sectors. at eu-level, one of the priorities to that end should be finally tackling the much-needed reform of eu copyright law.
in writing. − i voted against acta because i am not comfortable with all the possibilities that this treaty opens up. particularly concerning the fundamental rights of internet users, i think that acta was too ambiguous in this regard. while awaiting the ruling of the european court of justice, i am also concerned on how acta would fit into the multilateral framework of the wto.
in writing. − as the negotiation of the future of the cap is ongoing, and a lot of changes are expected, i think it is important to give a strong message to the beneficiaries of direct payments. it is important that we are coherent and consistent in defending what we had agreed upon.
in writing. − in favour. concerning the volume of the budget proposal (+2% in commitments to a level of eur 151 billion, + 6.8 % in payments to a level of eur 138 billion) we believe that the proposed level of payments is necessary in order to pay for a large amount of outstanding commitments from previous years, especially for structural funds reimbursements to member states. these outstanding commitments – eur 168 billion alone for structural funds – are due to the fact that the current structural funds programmes could only be launched with a delay resulting in under-execution of the eu budget and cumulated returns to member states of eur 11 billion during the last years. the budget increase may look huge but this is in fact misleading, as the payments level are necessary to cover outstanding commitments from previous years. the proposed increase is even eur 14 billion below estimated needs for reimbursements calculated by member states’ administrations. the commitments level is an indicator for new eu action and its level is clearly below inflation. so in fact, this budget amounts to a freeze compared to 2011. the proposed payments level will probably lead to certain delays in reimbursements to member states.
in writing. − i support this resolution. i think that it is of great importance to ensure that the parliament is heard during the drafting of the budget as it is the only elected institution involved. i particularly welcome the increase in spending for research and ten-t, as well as the focus on smes and youth.
in writing. − in favour. this was a very satisfactory report, with strong messages on implementation of existing legislation, incorporating animal welfare into trade issues, establishing a framework law, providing farming method labelling and many other issues. for the first time, parliament has called for stronger action against non-enforcement of animal welfare legislation through a system of comprehensive early intervention by the commission to identify member states likely to fail to meet deadlines, and the creation of legal milestones throughout the transition period to ensure that deadlines are met.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i am one of those who think that better protection as regards animal welfare is necessary at european level. it is necessary to develop this policy at eu level in order to avoid unfair competition and having different standards within the eu, and also to have a strong tool for control and monitoring.
in writing. − in favour. there is a need to take concrete action in order to end widespread abuse and maltreatment of pet and stray animals in some member states, in particular through setting up rules for the identification and registration of animals, the prohibition of unlicensed kennels and shelters and the drawing up of reasonable, humane stray animals management strategies. besides calling on the commission and council to work to get member states to sign the european convention for the protection of pet animals, the resolution calls on the commission to propose a legal framework at eu level for the protection of pets and stray animals, including: rules for the identification and registration of animals, stray animal management strategies, including vaccination and castration programmes, promotion of responsible ownership, prohibition of unlicensed kennels and shelters, prohibition of killing of stray animals without medical indication, information and education programmes in schools on animal welfare, and severe sanctions against any member state which fails to comply with the rules.
in writing. − in favour. among other things, the resolution welcomes the concrete steps taken by the european council to face up to the euro zone crisis and its recognition of the need for a response that addresses both fiscal consolidation and growth; believes that the summit reflects the european council’s approach to the challenges europe faces, aimed at a more balanced, economically effective and socially fair anti-crisis agenda. it also underlines the significance of the euro zone’s agreement on important and substantial measures to break the vicious circle between banks and sovereign debt and to narrow the spreads among euro zone sovereign debt yields; and welcomes, in this connection, the flexible and efficient use that could be made of the existing efsf/esm instruments for member states meeting their country-specific recommendations and their other commitments, including the european semester and the stability and growth pact.
in writing. − though there is still a lot of legislative work to do in the structural response to the crisis, this european council meeting has been positive because it has set down the basis for fiscal consolidation and growth. in my opinion, the proposals regarding the establishment of an integrated financial framework and european banking supervisor are also positive because that will bring stability for european banking in the future. i also support the statement by heads of state on reinforcing single market governance. i welcome the draft proposal for an economic and monetary union, presented by presidents van rompuy, juncker, barroso and draghi, and i hope that they move on from ideas to action, in order to make europe stronger. for all these reasons i will vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − in favour. the text requests that the commission put forward a detailed assessment of the state of play in all member states by september 2012; requests the commission to submit, by january 2013, on the basis of article 114 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, a proposal for a directive ensuring access to basic payment services to all consumers legally residing in the union, unless that detailed assessment demonstrates that there is no need for such a proposal, following the detailed recommendations set out in the annex hereto; but it also confirms that the recommendations respect fundamental rights and the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, and considers that the requested proposal does not have any financial implications for the budget of the european union.
in writing. - i abstain because two matters are mixed together and require a different treatment, as is already being done in other documents of parliament.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution as a way to put forward concerns at the fact that 30 million people still do not have access to bank accounts. this service should be provided in the cheapest way to those people at risk of exclusion, but always taking into account its costs.
we shall conclude with the explanations of vote. (the sitting was suspended at 2.55 p.m. and resumed at 3.05 p.m.)
mr president, the truth is that the citizens of europe expect more than bad news from the european union. that is why i think we should congratulate, especially this evening, not only the rapporteur, of course, mr göran färm, who with his tenacity and intelligence has been able to bring us all together, but also all the institutions, the commission, the council, this parliament and also a financial institution like the european investment bank, which until now appears and reappears 'a bit like the guadiana' and which we need to have present. the presence of this entity is precisely necessary in this leverage of scarce public resources that need to be drawn from private resources, precisely to ensure that the infrastructures, that area of communication, connection, mobility of people, services and goods in europe become a reality. and not just from traditional infrastructures, but, moreover, from infrastructures that will already be innovative, intelligent, future-oriented infrastructures, which will connect us to each other, but also connect europe to the rest of the world. and above all, within europe, they will create jobs, they will create development and wealth because, of course, in the face of other regions that are growing in a tremendous way, we need these smart tools, which europe has been able to use on other occasions, at this precise moment to pull from our development and remain as competitive and leading in engineering, public works, development and communications as we have been doing so far. i certainly welcome this proposal and this regulation and in the short two years that remain, i encourage the commission to give us the best results. i find that the information every six months is also a valid instrument for this parliament and the citizens to better engage with this project and, of course, as a co-rapporteur on the connecting europe facility, i warmly welcome this progress of what will become that europe of intelligent infrastructures.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have all our attention on the banks, which we hear time and again say are the lifeblood of the social body. this picture may be accurate, but let us keep in mind that the entire body is supported by a spine and joints. the backbone and the links of this social body we call europe are its transport networks and its energy infrastructure. it is essential, as is being said here this afternoon, to mobilise private funding and, where appropriate, public funding. it is also an opportunity to promote the issuance of private debt, backed by the european institutions, specifically earmarked for these purposes and open to any investor. i congratulate the rapporteurs on their work and also the commission on its clear commitment to these projects.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr göran färm is not only a socialist spokesman on budgets but also a very professional member who works hard on his reports, and the one we are discussing now is a good example of this. in times of very severe budgetary constraints, the use of these innovative financial instruments is of the utmost importance. already in the discussions of the special committee on the political challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable european union after 2013 (sure) held last year, the european parliament agreed on the need to introduce these new financial instruments to compensate for the possible insufficiency of the traditional budget. the necessary investments in transport, energy and telecommunications must be financed. the needs are estimated at eur 1.5 billion between 2010 and 2020. given the difficulty of attracting a private investor for large infrastructure projects with difficult short-term returns, the pilot phase of the project bond initiative is of even greater importance. the european council's explicit recognition of the future use of project bonds and their link with the connecting europe facility adds further importance to this report. it is a fully european project that brings new funding to projects with high community added value. the most important thing is that most of the amendments suggested by the rapporteur have been adopted by the council in two different trilogues, and that this will allow for a quick agreement at first reading so that the project can start immediately. finally, on the subject of evaluation, it is very important that we as parliament demand that the european commission submit the interim report by mid-2013 so that, if the market has not welcomed the project bonds, we will be able to improve the project to implement it in the second half of 2013.
mr president, despite what we have heard from some here, internal mobility has been our great achievement. now they want to present the control of the external borders as a great defeat. it's worth presenting it as a big defeat. the populism that invades our countries against foreigners is now spreading against our own citizens. before, they were criminals or exploited immigrants who came to europe wanting to steal the fruits of our labor, or asylum seekers who were con artists because they abused our asylum system or, in fact, were human traffickers disguised as asylum seekers. now this call effect, this contagion effect of the populism that is invading us is already at our internal borders. we're all either exploiters or con men to each other. now it's the greeks in england. or we're part of organized crime when our buses are stopped at borders that don't exist and customs officers get on that don't exist to see if we're dealing with illegal people or trafficking in people. it's all contagious. the cancer we are experiencing, the real defeat in the 17 years of application of the schengen convention, is the populism of the parties in power in the member states and the cowardice of those who do not defend the founding texts. we cannot be at ease, mrs malmström. how can we be calm? internal mobility is not a threat, it is our opportunity, and mobility with our neighbouring countries will be our solution. do you have to order this solution? i'm not sure. will populism do that? i'm not sure. is the problem in mobility, in the desire for adventure? thankfully, no. is the problem in those fleeing wars? i'm not sure. our real defeat is when we do not confront populism and do not put solutions.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i am a veteran member of the now defunct non-aligned movement, who led his country and who strongly desires the territorial integrity of cyprus in the face of military occupations. ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we should seize the opportunity for a wider reform of the court; perhaps, but the commission's and the rapporteur's proposals are very positive and should be supported by the unanimity it had in our committee. agile and well-functioning of the court is essential. i question them with the new patent jurisdiction, delayed today. i congratulate the rapporteur on her report and on the progress made in the reform of the court.
mr president, one of the points of kofi annan's plan is the withdrawal of the army to its barracks. indeed, the line of demilitarization of the conflict is the line that all countries are now following, with the intention of avoiding this war that is already taking place. and it is true that we must work to make the opposition cohesive. we have had members of the syrian national council present here in parliament, and we have conveyed to them the need for a united strategy. but it is very important that the european union's pressure to ban arms and military equipment is a reality. what follow-up is being given to this, mr minister, mr president of the european council? what information does the european union have on the implementation of this ban? what arsenal does bashar al-assad have stored up right now? it is true that russian ships may be carrying weapons, because it is difficult to negotiate with russia. that is why it is very important that, in addition to being sure that the army will actually go to its barracks, we also know exactly what weapons it has.
mr president, i am glad that the recent presidential elections in egypt have gone smoothly and that the results have been accepted, but it seems clear to me that these elections and the unexpected decisions taken by the supreme council of the armed forces a few days ago show that there is, in fact, a duality of power in egypt. these are delicate times. i think it is essential that these two poles, these two centres of power, should dialogue and cooperate at this stage and start an orderly transition to democratic normality. i am glad that the government that president morsi will soon elect will, it seems, be a government of broad composition representing broad sectors of a society like the egyptian one, which is plural. the drafting of a new constitution will also be very important. i trust that it will establish a multi-party democratic system, respectful of human rights, including the rights of minorities. we cannot forget, as other speakers have said, the importance of the christian minority, whose rights must be fully respected and not discriminated against. egypt, ladies and gentlemen, is a key country in the arab world and also in the whole region. what happens there will have repercussions in the rest of the muslim world. egypt can be an example, as president pöttering has pointed out. it is also very important that egyptian politicians are aware of the need for their decisions not to destabilise the region, which has suffered numerous conflicts. i welcome the fact that the existing international commitments will be respected. ladies and gentlemen, the european union cannot remain aloof from what is happening in egypt. it is a very important country, i repeat, in our mediterranean neighbourhood. we must accompany this transition, seek to help as much as possible without prejudice, of course, to the defence of our values and interests. finally, i would like to express my solidarity with the konrad adenauer foundation, which has been suffering for months from a difficult situation in egypt.
mr president, commissioner, the rio summit was supposed to guarantee the protection of our planet. lack of ambition leads to floods, droughts and fires, as happened in the valencian community in spain. there was a fire this weekend in which more than 50 000 hectares were lost, 22 villages were affected, 3 000 people were evacuated, a pilot was killed, and we offer our condolences to his family. yesterday, vice president vidal-quadras made a statement on the subject. i appreciate it, but i want to report it here as a citizen who has lived it firsthand. my house in valencia was covered in ashes, it was covered in a cloud of smoke. but not just this. there are people who have lost their homes, their farms, their land, their animals. and i ask for responsibility because cuts in the public system also cause fires. i denounce the government of my community for the lack of coordination in extinction, evacuation and information. the citizens of valencia, spain, are also citizens of the union, and i therefore call for aid and solidarity funds to alleviate the damage caused by this fire and, above all, to prevent new fires.
the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels. ladies and gentlemen, in the field of fisheries, both in the european union's rules and in those of the fao itself, there is a general principle, which is a paradigm in the regulation on the control of fishing activities and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, which states that the flag state is primarily responsible for controlling the activities of its vessels wherever they operate. on the basis of this principle, it is for example the flag state which has to certify that the catches of its vessels comply with the legislation. this certification of catches is essential for catches to be unloaded in union ports and marketed. but it is also a key element in ensuring compliance with the fisheries conservation and management measures that have been adopted, the basic aim of which is to bring fish stocks back to sustainable levels of exploitation. there are many states which, not having their own fleet, have to charter vessels from other countries in order to fish, which is natural, provided they meet the legal requirements. now, commissioner, you know - as we all know - that many of these chartering states have neither the resources nor the capacity, and in many cases the will, to be able to control the fishing activities of these vessels. i think that you will agree with me that without effective control of fishing activities, it is absolutely impossible to combat illegal fishing and very difficult to contribute to sustainability, which is the cornerstone of our common fisheries policy and the central axis of the reform of it that we are currently debating in this parliament. at the last meeting of cites, the working group on marine introduction discussed the responsibility of the flag state for species covered by the cites convention, proposing to transfer this responsibility to the chartering state for species covered by the convention caught on the high seas. the working group will report to the standing committee of the convention in july 2012 and the standing committee will report to the conference of the parties at its meeting in march 2013, at which time a final decision will be taken. the commission has, as far as i am aware, convened a meeting with the member states last monday, at which it seems to have inexplicably announced that it has no position, that is to say that the member states are free to take whatever position they consider to be in their best interests at the next conference of the parties. as you can understand, commissioner, it is disappointing and discouraging that the european commission, if that is the case, is not taking a stand on a matter of vital importance such as this, and at a time when we are in the midst of reforming the common fisheries policy. i have been informed that in the coming days there will be a meeting between the member states and the commission itself to adopt common lines. i think that there is still time to correct this and for the commission to send a clear and strong message, avoiding the repeal of what has been the basic principle so far, that of flag state responsibility. the matter is much more important than some irresponsibly give it credit for. if the proposal is accepted, a precedent will be set which will undoubtedly cause enormous damage to fisheries management and the fight against illegal fishing. the commission cannot allow the work that has been done so far, which has been a joint effort, to be scrapped in two areas in which parliament is absolutely involved and which have also been highlighted by regional organisations such as iccat or the western and central pacific fisheries commission (wcpfc) itself. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have finished. in my view, the chartering state can under no circumstances be given responsibility for controlling its vessels, and this responsibility must remain with the flag state. that is the firm position of the committee on fisheries of this parliament, and i hope that it is also the position of the commission itself. i therefore ask you if the commission could explain what its position is on this matter and how it will ensure that primary responsibility is maintained in the flag state.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members. i would like firstly to thank mr mato adrover for his question, which raises truly complex but important matters. the question relates, in reality, to two issues: on the one hand to the latest results of the international negotiations on how the convention on international trade in endangered species (cites) should apply to marine specimens caught on the high seas, and, on the other hand, to the need to ensure that the provisions on the chartering of vessels do not undermine the fight against illegal, unregulated and unreported (iuu) fishing. as we have heard, i attended rio+20 less than two weeks ago. many have criticised the summit but in fact the protection of high-seas biodiversity is an area in which the need for much more progress was universally recognised. the eu has always been at the forefront on this issue, and that will continue to be the case. the commission believes that multilateral solutions coupled with rigorous enforcement are key instruments here. the eu is a central player in regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos), which typically cover the majority of commercially traded species, including tuna. the eu will pursue its ambitious policy in those organisations, pressing for the adoption of sound measures for the conservation and management of fish stocks, and for their strict implementation by all the parties. with regard to control, the united nations convention on the law of the sea (unclos) provides that authority over a ship rests with the flag state. all fisheries-specific un instruments are based on that responsibility. the 2008 iuu regulation is also based on this principle. the eu shows the same level of ambition in relation to multilateral environmental agreements, including cites, which regulates international trade in endangered species and currently covers 30 000 plant and animal species, among them approximately 100 aquatic species. cites is widely seen as one of the most effective international agreements in the field of the environment, due notably to its effective compliance mechanisms and its universal coverage. the commission has no doubt that the european union should be ready to use international fisheries instruments and cites in pursuit of one and the same objective – namely to ensure the long-term conservation of fish stocks on the high seas. this is vital not only for marine biodiversity but also for fishing operators who depend on healthy stocks for the future of their economic activities. discussions have been taking place over the last 20 years on how cites should apply to high-seas species. more precisely, the problematic point has been to define the state responsible for issuing the documentation required under cites to allow trade in those species to take place. the commission has been very active in that debate. in line with the unclos rules, the eu has consistently pushed for recognition of the flag state as the one responsible for issuing cites documentation. in defending that position, we have encountered considerable opposition. most other parties did not share our views and wanted this role to be assigned to the port state. where are we now in those discussions? after a long period of stalemate, the question has been intensely debated over the past three years in a specific working group. as a result, we are now close to an agreement. the proposal by the working group provides for flag states to play a central role in issuing the relevant cites documents, with a derogation under which chartering states may also issue them subject to certain conditions. under the cites proposal, the principle is that the flag state is responsible for issuing the cites documentation – including in cases of chartering operations except in certain circumstances, and subject to conditions, under which the chartering country would be in charge of issuing it. this arrangement is a first, as existing rfmo rules do not allow for similar catch documentation to be issued by any authority other than that of the flag state. the new conditions under which chartering countries would be entitled to issue cites documentation are the following: first, the chartering operations need to be subject to a prior agreement between the chartering country and the flag state; second, this agreement needs to be consistent with the relevant rfmo framework on chartering; and third, it needs to be made available to the cites secretariat, to the rfmo and to all the parties. in addition, the cites secretariat would monitor these provisions and report on their implementation at the cites standing committee meetings, thus ensuring proper monitoring and compliance. the specific situation of chartering operations has been the subject of long and detailed discussions in numerous rfmos and subsequently in the cites working group. the eu traditionally supports a policy in rfmos whereby it endeavours to restrict chartering practices, to avoid any risk of confusion as to which state is responsible for a given activity by a given ship at a given moment in time. however, it has also accepted that within some rfmos such practices exist, with the flag state remaining fully responsible for issuing catch documentation. the eu therefore wants to make sure that any solution within cites is compatible with the eu policy against iuu fishing and is respectful of flag-state jurisdiction. the key consideration is to assess whether the safeguards contained in the proposal are sufficient in this respect. there was a discussion – which has been mentioned – with the member states on this sensitive issue earlier this week. that meeting was inconclusive. the commission is still considering the specific provisions on chartering contained in the proposal and has not yet reached a final conclusion – the only reason for this being the seriousness of the decision which we have to make. the issue is on the agenda of the forthcoming cites standing committee meeting on 23-27 july and subsequently on the agenda of the conference of the parties in march 2013. the issue of chartering will also be raised in various rfmos in the coming months. the commission will continue to work towards finalising its assessment in view of those meetings, and it will make sure that parliament is kept informed about the development of the eu position on these matters. it is essential that the parties to cites reach a common understanding on the concept of ‘introduction from the sea’ without undermining the fight against iuu, and the eu will seek to ensure that flag states retain the central responsibility here.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner, who i hope will listen to me, for being here. i see the commissioner leaving, which is really depressing, because what he has said and the solution he has proposed in this famous compromise that he so much supports is a solution that is absolutely contrary to the principles of combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (iuu). that is why i would have liked the commissioner to have listened to this debate. because the problem is that the commission was carrying this out with a certain amount of nocturnity and levity. and it was in parliament, by chance, that some member, like myself, discovered what was going on. because neither the commissioner for the environment nor the commissioner for maritime affairs and fisheries has ever come to raise this issue, when they know that in this parliament the fight against iuu fishing is an absolute priority for us. i would also like to know why we should support the interests of countries linked to chartering, such as brazil, new zealand, australia or even the united states, when the price to pay is to empty regulation (ec) no 1005/2008, which aims to combat illegal fishing. it will also weaken the fight which the european union has been waging in all the international forums. and it has to be. it is precisely in the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) that this whole matter begins to falter. i would also like to stress what has already been said, that this is a very serious precedent, because all this - as he has very well said - is now going to be a subject of debate in all international forums, especially in those of the regional fisheries organisations. and, coincidentally, the central and western pacific is going to be a place where this is discussed, because it's one of the regional fisheries organizations where there's a greater "charter". it should not be forgotten that the philosophy behind the fight against iuu fishing is precisely the double safety net through port and flag state control of world fish catches, and that is what has caused panic in the exporting countries, which have suddenly seen the desirable market of the european union closed. and that's where all these problems come from. so i hope this all works out differently.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, flag states take responsibility for their ships' compliance with international standards and regulations. conventions deposited with the international maritime organisation to improve maritime safety and environmental protection, commitments deriving from the maritime labour convention adopted by the international labour organisation, agreements adopted within the fao on the conservation of resources and the implementation of the international plan of action against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing are ineffective if flag member states fail to comply with their obligations and exercise the jurisdiction and control to which they are bound. fishing is vital to the flag state. the flag state is responsible for the vessel's activity, including identification, compliance with management measures, declaration of catches and the conduct of control and inspection activities. the european union's regulation on illegal fishing is based on this principle. i fully share the concern at reports that this principle of flag state is being called into question in the framework of the cites convention. if this initiative succeeds, it would indeed set a serious precedent which would be taken up in other international fora, such as regional fisheries organisations. the breakdown of the relationship between fisheries and flag state will erode the fight against illegal fishing, lead to regulatory arbitrage and further opacity and lack of control. i therefore believe that the commission must react by getting the states to act together and to defend the fulfilment of their commitments as flag states.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i take this opportunity to express my views in parliament, as a social democrat and member of the committee on fisheries, on the measures that should be taken in the next convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) to prevent the marketing of marine species caught accidentally, irregularly and illegally, so that they cannot be exported or imported, and more specifically those relating to chartering operations. the european union has for years defended the role of the flag state in cases of chartering operations on the high seas, in accordance with the iuu regulation and international law. the union should continue to intensify maximum cooperation between flag and chartering states to ensure control, monitoring, surveillance and enforcement in order to preserve our marine ecosystem and the sustainability of fisheries. the present regulation is a good instrument for achieving these aims. in my view, it should be maintained until an agreement is reached at the next working meeting in march, which will oblige all states, flag states and chartering states, to comply with the rules designed to ensure that endangered marine species are not caught or transported. we are aware that the biggest guarantee in the fight against illegal fishing is still that the flag state is responsible for the whole process. however, we must work towards a legal framework that will tackle illegal fishing and the transport of endangered species, thus complying with agenda 2020, ensuring the sustainability of fisheries and protecting the marine environment.
in writing. − in favour. the proposal provides for: (a) broader participation by the judges in cases assigned to the grand chamber, allowing them to sit far more frequently than at present. that would be achieved by amending articles 16 and 17 of the statute so as to increase to 15 the number of judges constituting the grand chamber and to end the automatic participation of all the presidents of five-judge chambers in grand chamber cases. corresponding adjustments would have to be made to the rules relating to the quorum of the grand chamber and of the full court; (b) the establishment of the office of vice-president: the latter would sit, like the president, in every case assigned to the grand chamber. the permanent presence of two persons, together with the more frequent participation of the other judges in the work of the grand chamber, would ensure that its case-law is consistent. in addition to sitting in every grand chamber case, the vice-president would also assist the president of the court in his duties.
in writing. − in favour. the court of justice has submitted a proposal for a regulation which would allow temporary judges to be appointed to the european union civil service tribunal. the civil service tribunal consists of seven judges. as a result, its operation can be seriously affected if one of its members falls ill and is unable to perform his or her duties for an extended period, without however suffering from disablement within the meaning of article 10 of council regulation no 422/67/eec, no 5/67/euratom. in order to ensure that the european civil service tribunal is not placed in a situation in which it cannot carry out its judicial functions, it is proposed to amend art. 62c of the statute of the court by providing, in general terms, for the possibility of attaching temporary judges to the specialised courts. under article 62c of the statute, as thus amended, the attachment of temporary judges to the civil service tribunal requires an amendment to annex i to the statute.
in writing. − in favour. this report insists on a full-scale independent evaluation of the pilot phase and on regular reporting by the commission to the council and parliament. it did not deem it necessary to fine-tune the criteria for selection of projects to be financed, as these have already been fixed in sufficient detail (eu economic policy objectives, criteria presented in the basic ten and cip acts, eu policy guidelines, eib standard eligibility and environmental criteria, credit risk policies, etc). however, several references to green sustainability criteria were introduced into the report following green/efa amendments to that effect. we, the greens/efa, focused on three main points and introduced amendments accordingly: the green sustainability of the projects to be financed; the issue of correct remuneration of the eu actors issuing risk guarantees; and the participation of these actors in the decision-making process concerning the design and implementation of the projects. in the past, such financial instruments at national level have resulted in excessive risk-taking by public authorities, resulting in big financial losses financed by public budgets. the first two points were taken over in the text, even be it to a less strict extent. our amendments on participation in the decision-making process were not taken on board by the rapporteur.
in writing. − in favour. in general we, the greens/efa, believe that parliament should reconsider its traditional approach to always accept the budgeting of the preceding year’s budget surplus as revenue for the current year’s budget, if it is legally feasible. in this specific case however, parliament would be in a difficult position towards the council, as it made acceptance of dab 3 conditional on acceptance by the council of dab 19. as the council gave in on dab 19, parliament would lose its credibility if it came up with yet another condition. we thus supported the rapporteur’s line.
in writing. − in favour. this resolution, once again, stresses that: ending the conflict is a fundamental interest of the eu, as well as of the parties themselves and the wider region, and that this can be achieved through a comprehensive peace agreement, based on the relevant un security council resolutions, the madrid principles including land for peace, the roadmap, the agreements previously reached by the parties and the arab peace initiative; insists on the fact that any resulting resolution should not affect the dignity of either side; notes that the eu, as the largest donor to the palestinian authority and one of israel’s major trading partners, has instruments at its disposal to more actively encourage both parties to work towards a solution; calls on both parties to work together with the eu, which should pursue all efforts to resolve the conflict; recalls the applicability of international humanitarian law in the occupied palestinian territory, including the applicability of the fourth geneva convention relative to the protection of civilian persons in time of war. direct negotiations leading to a two-state solution between israelis and palestinians should be resumed without delay.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. all states have the obligation to prevent violence and incitement to hatred based on sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression, and to respect the principles of equality between women and men. however, the stigmatisation of and the violence against lesbian, bisexual, transgender and intersex women, as well as against women perceived to be so, by state and police forces, the women’s families and community members is far from disappearing in many countries. today we are concentrating on the situation of women in africa, where female homosexuality is legal in 27 countries and illegal in another 27. thus i am glad that this parliament strongly condemns all forms of violence and discrimination against lesbians in african countries where this is taking place, including extreme forms of violence, such as corrective rapes and other forms of sexual violence.
author. − mr president, on 2 june 2012 in zhenping a seven-months pregnant woman called feng jianmei was kidnapped, forcibly taken to hospital, beaten and injected with a product which induced abortion, provoking the death of the foetus. the municipal government of ankang conducted an investigation that concluded that the officials in zhenping county used crude means and persuaded her to abort the foetus. it is important to stress this was known basically thanks to an internet campaign and this underlines the importance of freedom of expression, including online. in this particular case, i would like to remind members that, according to the international conference on population and development plan of action, the aim of family planning programmes must be to enable couples and individuals to make free, responsible and informed decisions about child-bearing and to make available to them a full range of safe, effective and acceptable methods of family planning of their choice. any form of coercion has no part to play. this is why we first extend our condolences to the family of the victims, strongly condemn the harassment to which they are being subjected and demand public protection for them. we also condemn the decision to force mrs feng to have an abortion and condemn as well the practice of forced abortions and sterilisations globally, especially in the context of the one-child policy. we also consider important the ongoing debate by intellectuals and academics in china on the one-child policy.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the commission is grateful to parliament for the support received as regards the proposal to facilitate the electronic identification of bovine animals and to simplify voluntary beef labelling. i would like express particular thanks to the rapporteur, ms auconie, for her commitment to this cause. i hope that her dedicated work will pave the way for an agreement to be reached at first reading. this would be particularly welcome because the proposed new rules amount to an opportunity to enhance growth and competitiveness for many stakeholders. we all recognise that the current system of traceability is effective in terms of consumer protection. electronic identification will, however, make the system more accurate and faster. it will improve the tracing of animals and food products for enhanced food safety and better management of disease outbreaks. it will also reduce administrative burdens by simplifying the current procedures. modern technology is literally just a click away for european farmers, and our duty is to adopt legislation to allow them to embrace and profit from this progress. as regards voluntary beef labelling, horizontal eu legislation has already been developed. this legislation covers beef in the same way as any other meat. there is, therefore, no need to maintain a specific authorisation procedure for voluntary beef labels. operators respecting the existing horizontal provisions would, of course, be free to provide additional information on their labels. any such information should not mislead consumers and should be verifiable by the competent authorities. we must also keep in mind that current rules on bovine identification and voluntary beef labelling were described as ‘burdens’ imposed on business in the communication from the commission on the action programme for reducing administrative burdens in the eu. there has been much talk about reducing these burdens, and now we are acting on it. i thank parliament for helping us take the right action.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to thank mrs comi for her great effort and work in reaching a consensus. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the next few months. however, i cannot say the same about the voluntary labelling system for beef. the commission's proposal to abolish it seems to me neither timely nor appropriate. this labelling has played a very important role in restoring european consumers' confidence in beef and beef products. i think that the commission's argument that the administrative burden is high is not valid today, when the operational mechanism is perfectly known to the administrations and the sector. the fact that in my country, for example, 180 specifications have been approved for the labelling of beef and veal, but only 32 for goatmeat and 55 for poultrymeat and eggs, shows that the mechanism works very well. voluntary labelling is a very effective tool for differentiating product varieties, and consumers want to be informed about what they are buying and consuming. but consumers do not distinguish between voluntary and mandatory labelling, and often voluntary labelling is more important to them and seems more relevant than mandatory labelling. and it's the combination of all this information that allows you to make an informed choice. it is not that regulation (ec) no 1760/2000 is perfect, but it is certainly much better than the legal vacuum that could be created if articles 16, 17 and 18 were to be deleted, because we would be faced with a new system without prior notification and without mandatory external control. one possible solution to improve the system would be to establish sector-specific rules for beef, as already exist for other products, such as those in the poultry or poultrymeat sector. i think the commission is on the way to doing that. finally, i would point out that labelling plays a fundamental role for the consumer in making decisions, and this is precisely what we have advocated in this house, and it is very difficult to understand why we now want to abolish it.
mr president, tomorrow – 11 september – is the national day of catalonia. thousands of people will be on the streets with a clear demand, namely that catalonia become a state integrated into the european union. this is a public outcry that has bypassed the political parties to become a general demand. hundreds of senyeras (the catalan flag) will march alongside european flags. the state model that emerged after 40 years of francoism is perceived to be exhausted. the eu should step up and assume that there are new social and national realities in this dynamic project that insist on an accommodation which is different from the current one. many of the people who will be on the streets tomorrow have not felt the need to make this demand before, and yet tomorrow they will join a demonstration that is expected to be massive and peaceful. these people have high expectations in the european project and in its values. i hope the european institutions will live up to these expectations and will respond responsibly and fairly. therefore, dear colleagues, i ask you to listen carefully to this legitimate and democratic demand, and i urge you to be prepared and ready to face a process that will surely be complex but that also seems to be unstoppable.
mr president, spain has also experienced a considerable number of fires, with devastating effects on 200 000 hectares across spain, which is three times the area affected at the same time in 2011 and almost twice the average of the last decade. what's the news? what is new is a government which has drastically reduced almost all the appropriations for fire prevention and fire suppression. sometimes savings are very expensive. we see that the adjustment policies have a perverse effect here too. another novelty is that, for the first time in thirty years, a prime minister - mr rajoy - is not dealing with this problem, he is not appearing in parliament or accompanying the victims. the last big fire has taken place in the costa del sol. the european commission is our last resort. i have asked a series of questions and i await the commission's answers.
mr president, on 26 july, a few days before the expiry of the fisheries protocol between the european union and mauritania, the european commission initialled a new protocol. although there is a substantial increase in compensation, there has been a very significant reduction in fishing opportunities. the provisional application of this protocol is having a very serious economic and social impact on the sector, and is particularly traumatic in galicia, my home community. the cephalopod fleet has had to leave mauritania's waters and the cod and shellfish fleets are fishing, they are working under more difficult conditions, more expensive and with greater limits, as well as the rest of the fleets. at the moment only 5% of the protocol's potential is being exploited, so it may become useless. in view of this situation, i suggest that the commission should immediately renegotiate the fishing conditions in order to reach a satisfactory and sustainable agreement and so that the european parliament can conclude and adopt the new protocol in the future.
mr president, commissioner reding, my country has suffered too many setbacks since the people's party came to power: repeated and continuous attempts to roll back established rights, such as shutting down those who dissent, among others, from consumer organizations. the threat to facua, which is in violation of articles 16 and 17 of the spanish constitution, amongst others, by the ministry of mrs mato, is a dangerous attack not only on freedom of expression and opinion but also on the right to a high level of consumer protection, which is a basic principle of democracy and enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i therefore call on the government of mr rajoy to correct its mistake in making facua illegal, and i call on the commission to ensure that the rights of spanish consumers are protected and to take action against the reduction in the rights and functions of consumer associations which the present government of spain is seeking to impose.
mr president, i also want to thank the rapporteur, mr gustafsson, not only for his drafting, but also for the good cooperation he has shown in the development of the report. it is a fact that the absence of the gender perspective from environmental policies increases gender inequality. we have seen this in different contexts. therefore, gender mainstreaming, as is said in the report, is absolutely crucial at the international, national and regional level. this is what we claimed should be in the report. i also appreciate very much the fact that the report includes two of the amendments we presented. one has to do with the specific situation of women in this time of economic crisis and in the eu 2020 strategy. as we have said in preceding reports, it is a fact that women are suffering much more from the crisis than men in many cases. it is also a fact that the transition to a low carbon economy will create a huge demand for skilled workers, so this is also an opportunity to create jobs and to create new opportunities.
the rapporteur, mr president, has already said that the services sector accounts for almost 70% of total employment in the european union and 83% of the female labour force is in this sector. i therefore believe that the work done in the committee on women's rights and gender equality on this report is fundamental, and i would like to begin by thanking all the colleagues for the work of amendments and subsequent negotiations which have made this work possible and improved the original report. we have tried to reflect in this report on issues such as precariousness, stereotypes, the digital divide, the wage gap, reconciliation, the glass ceiling, training, new technologies, issues which are fundamental in the debate on equality and the situation of women in the labour market. but i think it is important to mention some important issues which have also generated interesting debate in the committee. as regards flexibility, it is true that flexibility at certain times can favour the integration of women into the labour market in order to reconcile family and working life, but we cannot forget that this flexibility cannot be at the expense of the employer being the one to set up and maintain working conditions, but rather through collective bargaining and the role that women can play in promoting this reconciliation of family and working life, because otherwise, this reconciliation will not be possible and therefore flexibility will not be positive. another issue which we have also raised in this report is all that concerns parttime work. the greatest number of parttime contracts are held by women, and this may be a possibility, but only if this possibility is the free choice of women to enter the labour market in this way and of course also of men, because we cannot forget that when we talk about reconciling family and working life, we are talking about a responsibility of men and women, and we cannot always leave behind women such an important issue as the care of children, the care of dependent persons or the care of the elderly. and so, in this report too, we have wanted to make a reference to the importance of public services for children, for disabled people and for dependent people. today, 80% of informal carers are women and therefore we need free, quality public services and we must not allow the dismantling of the welfare state, public education and social services which can help women on equal footing to enter the labour market, which is taking place in many member states. we also wanted to raise an important issue, namely the wage gap, which has been raised on many occasions by this parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the wage gap is therefore a fundamental issue which the commission and the member states must raise, develop, in order to reduce it, and, of course, in this connection, everything that has to do with labour inspections and the monitoring of the policies on working conditions by companies is another fundamental issue which we must not forget. we have wanted to refer to the need to return to the question of the maternity directive. i think that is a demand that we in this parliament have been making for a long time, and it is not just about maternity leave, but also paternity leave is important and interesting. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that we cannot allow this economic crisis to lead to a deterioration of the labour market, of working conditions, because in the end it is weighing on the shoulders of those who are in the most difficult situation and, in this case, it is weighing on the shoulders of women in the labour market. we will therefore have to continue to work and urge the commission to do more in this direction.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report. yes, it is true that most women in europe are employed in the service sector, but it is also true that most women have precarious jobs, segregated jobs, parttime jobs, undervalued jobs, jobs paid differently from men's, unregulated jobs and undeclared jobs, often to survive. it is not in the interests of women that we should be given jobs for the sake of flexibility in work under the pretext of reforms such as those being carried out in some member states, such as spain, which involve adjustments, social cuts and a lack of rights. women want rights, also in the service sector.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, among other things, because, as the report says, ensuring the proper functioning of the common european asylum system is something that is particularly important in times like these. it's been heard before. the number of people dying trying to cross the straits, or at any rate the mediterranean, to come to europe is growing very rapidly. but we are also seeing how the lack of concrete measures is fuelling a kind of discourse, for example in greece with that golden dawn, which is very worrying. it is precisely in this context that solidarity between the member states is an obligation, not only from the point of view of humanitarian aid but also from the point of view of political responsibility, precisely in order to overcome many of the difficulties which many of the countries facing this situation cannot cope with today. i think it is necessary, i think it is possible and i think the proposals made by the rapporteur in the report are absolutely necessary.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all let me thank the rapporteur, kyriacos triantaphyllides, and the other honourable members involved, for their work on this report. the commission welcomes the european parliament’s contribution to the development of intra-eu solidarity in the field of asylum. i am happy to see that our views converge on the key approaches, especially the view that solidarity has to go hand in hand with the responsibility of all those involved to meet their obligations. the lines along which solidarity should develop have been identified and confirmed by all our institutions: practical cooperation and technical assistance, with coordinating and supporting action from easo, which must go hand in hand with legislative harmonisation; financial solidarity, via a flexible and easy-to-mobilise system, underpinned by closer partnerships among all those involved; and the fair allocation of responsibilities among member states for both asylum seekers and other beneficiaries of international protection. let me share with you the commission’s guiding principles in developing a sound framework for eu solidarity on asylum. first, our action on solidarity should be comprehensive and balanced. mutual support needs to go further than just combating irregular migration. solidarity also involves relocation, resettlement and a well-functioning common european asylum system. second, solidarity in asylum is not primarily about emergency or reactive action. the best way to achieve mutual trust is for solidarity to be built into member states’ everyday practice, for example by supporting integration efforts. we should keep such everyday solidarity sharply in our focus in the future, not least because it is less politically visible than emergency action. third, it will be essential to follow up all the commitments made. as we announced in march, the commission will report on solidarity issues in its annual report on immigration and asylum, starting next year. to prepare this report, the commission will invite member states to an expert meeting this autumn to discuss the current state of play. i would also like to address the criticism the report makes of the application of the dublin regulation, and the related suggestion to develop instead an eu system for relocating asylum seekers. the dublin system is certainly not ideal. the commission evaluation in 2007 acknowledged the disproportionate burden on some member states due to their geographical position. other situations also need to be acknowledged: as recent experience showed, member states without an external border can also experience disproportionate flows. it is true that standards in member states are unequal and sometimes insufficient, which gives some asylum seekers better chances than others. these problems will be addressed by the current reform of the dublin regulation and by more harmonisation in the second phase of the ceas. so completing our interinstitutional negotiations on the ceas is vital.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, i am glad to be here for the formal endorsement of a first reading agreement on the important proposals on post-market control of medicines, the so-called pharmacovigilance. pharmacovigilance makes a crucial contribution to public health and is key to the safety of patients. may i take this opportunity to thank all those who worked very hard to make this agreement possible – in particular ms mcavan, rapporteur for the lead committee, who has successfully facilitated the early conclusion of this dossier. the stress test following the mediator case identified certain gaps in our legislation. the proposal under consideration today will strengthen the transparency and reporting requirements of the 2010 package on pharmacovigilance. in particular, more categories of products will be subject to increased monitoring with a view to improving the reporting of adverse reactions to such medicines. in addition, there will be greater transparency of the reasons for the withdrawal, interruption or non-renewal of the marketing of a product, as companies will have to declare the reasons for these. this will help to minimise the risk that a product falls through the net and thus escapes scrutiny when safety concerns are identified. the confidence of patients in medicinal products is essential for therapeutic compliance; such confidence can only be achieved and maintained if patients trust our system. i am pleased that the proposal on which parliament will vote tomorrow addresses the gaps identified in the existing pharmacovigilance legislation. the commission stands fully behind this agreement and is very pleased that it was concluded between the institutions before the summer break. as part of the agreement, with respect to the legislation on fees related to pharmacovigilance activities, the commission makes the following statement: on 18 june 2012, the commission launched a public consultation on a concept paper concerning the introduction of fees for pharmacovigilance, as set out in regulation (eu) no 1235/2010 and directive 2010/84/eu, which is open for comments until 15 september 2012. after examination of the comments received, the commission will prepare an impact assessment which is one of the necessary steps in the legislative process before the commission puts forward a legislative proposal. the commission will continue to work on this file as a priority with the intention of presenting a legislative proposal as soon as possible to the european parliament and the council.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to highlight the great work of mrs mcavan, the rapporteur, and also of the other shadow rapporteurs, in reaching this agreement at first reading, which was very important, as the regulations we had adopted in 2010 were coming into force and needed to be retouched. not because it was bad legislation - the legislation was very good - but because, as has been said, recent events, which are known to all, have shown that there is a certain gap which needs to be closed so that it does not happen again, and that specific aspects of the monitoring and safety of medicines once they are on the market need to be strengthened. as has been said, therefore, from now on, marketing authorization holders who do not renew, withdraw, request the withdrawal or suspend the authorization of a medicinal product will be required to state the real reasons and the reasons which led them to withdraw or suspend the authorization of the medicinal product. this is a great achievement in the interests of transparency and will prevent the marketing authorisation holder from trying to hide the real reasons for his decision. in addition, if any of these actions are carried out in a third country, all the member states concerned where the medicinal product is marketed must be informed. all this will improve transfer and safety without putting too much burden on the european medicines agency and the national agencies. the second important change is that all authorised products subject to a post-authorisation safety study are automatically included in a list of products subject to this monitoring. finally, we must not forget that pharmacovigilance plays a fundamental role and that is why this house must approve this proposal.
mr president, the agreement reached by parliament and the council reflects what the member states concerned unanimously approved at the imo. these seas are in a worrying state in terms of acidification. furthermore, their regenerative capacity is very limited. the fuel required will be more expensive and therefore financial aid is provided for entrepreneurs, which is very reasonable. but some members have tried to make the requirements for new fuels apply to all the seas of the european union. we would be faced with the paradox that an environmental problem in some countries of the union is being solved by creating a first-rate economic problem in the mediterranean, which does not have that environmental problem, but which has other kinds of environmental problems whose costs are not intended to be imposed on the rest of the countries. the treaty is very clear. we have to protect the sensitive areas. but not all areas are equally sensitive.
mr president, mr turmes has done an admirable job, because to put forward a regulation like this, it took the courage of this rapporteur, who has been able to neutralize the obstacles, many and skillfully disposed. it was worth it, because energy efficiency and energy saving are requirements of any energy policy worthy of the name. we should welcome important measures such as the requirement to renovate public buildings, the imposition of a percentage of accumulated energy savings on energy companies, and the mandatory audits imposed on large private companies. the work of mr turmes and the other rapporteurs will be of no avail if it is not accompanied by determined action from the member states. this action must be accompanied by a firm commitment to these objectives on the part of the regions, the municipalities and the european citizens. i would like to emphasize the participation of the latter. at the moment, what is being warned is a lot of frivolity among the authorities and among the citizens. we have to be very careful about the way we use our money. my friend turmes, we must spare no effort to save energy.
mr president, commissioner, we are faced with one of the most important legislative contributions to the energy field of this legislature. there are few things in the end that are as important as this energy efficiency directive. and the result is the result of tenacity and effort. it is the result of the rapporteur's work, but it is also the result of the work of alternative rapporteurs who have done a really admirable job, and therefore i congratulate them all. this directive has three main objectives: to help reduce the energy island status of the european union, to help make the climate change objectives a reality, and also to contribute to the development of an energy efficiency market that will enable greater economic growth through the appropriate technologies. but i would like to stress one thing, because i think it is the great contribution that parliament is making to this piece of legislation, to this directive, namely flexibility: flexibility for the 1.5% targets on savings for energy distributors and traders, or the 3% target for renovation of buildings; the flexibility that member states have to apply alternative measures. this is the key, because the diversity in the european union is great.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to stress one crucial aspect in the present situation, because this directive has an overwhelming economic logic. firstly, because it will create jobs, many in the construction sector, which has suffered so much in terms of employment; jobs with a strong local link. secondly, because it will help to combat energy poverty in many households. thirdly, because it will save on energy imports. fourthly, because it will act as a stimulus to research and innovation and make our businesses more competitive. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
mr president, this directive started with an advantage and a disadvantage. both powerful. the advantage is that there is unanimous agreement in this house on the benefits of boosting energy efficiency, as the most effective, most direct, cheapest method to achieve security of supply, competitiveness, and to fight climate change. and the disadvantage is the current economic and financial situation in many member states, which are in a terrible recession, which makes governments and businesses, which are struggling to survive, resist anything that would require them to take on additional obligations that would require them to invest. so, in the face of the advantages and disadvantages, we had to find a balance between these two factors and this has been achieved. and it has been achieved thanks to our way of working and thanks to the excellent quality of the work of the rapporteur, claude turmes, and the alternative rapporteurs and all the members and the very positive role played by the commission. there are certainly times when our work takes on its full european meaning. this was one of those occasions and therefore claude turmes and all those who have contributed to this great result must be congratulated.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. the single market is one of the two pillars of the european community. the first was and is the peace union, the second is the single market. free movement of goods, workers, businesses and services in a community of 500 million eu citizens. electricity and gas are the late-born children of the internal market. for food, textiles, vehicles, electrical engineering, furniture, financial services, we have had a single market for over 60 years. oil and coal, too. but gas and electricity followed late, in 1996 and 1998. since then we have been working on the implementation, on the completion of the internal market. we have achieved a great deal and we have a great deal more to do. we have the mandate of the european council, and also of you, to complete the single market by 2015. we are working on this with legislation, with the single market package, with control, and mr almunia with a concrete view of the markets, including proceedings against market participants. we work together very well. and so i'll close with the first question and its answer: electricity is not quite comparable to food or cars. and electricity and gas need infrastructure. the development of infrastructure - transmission networks, interconnectors, crossborder gas and electricity lines, modern lines - is therefore a crucial point for the sub-markets of our 27 member states to really come together into a single market, in which market rules such as competition, transparency, strong consumer rights and thus also an increase in security of supply and perhaps also pressure on prices can be achieved.
member of the commission. - we have commissioned the acer agency in your capital ljubljana to carry out this task. we are in contact with members of parliament, your colleagues, including mrs hohlmeier, so that the appropriate budget proposals will provide the appropriate planning posts and resources so that this agency can carry out its task fully in your interest and ours, and remit, i.e. the integrity and transparency of energy markets, can also be implemented in the coming years.
member of the commission. − we believe that the single market, with competition from suppliers and strong consumers, is an important contribution to keeping prices and price increases in balance and proportion. that is why we are pursuing a strategy of diversification. take gas: russia is the most important partner, but russia does not have a monopoly. and where russia still has a monopoly - the baltic states, for example - we create competition through infrastructure. secondly, we are supporting the construction of lng terminals in norway, algeria and we are also open to demonstration projects for shale gas in some member states. that way, we avoid monopolists who set the price. that's how we get the market to lower the price. energy efficiency is also a means of reducing energy costs in the long term. thirdly, it is the member states, not us, who are responsible for the taxes. there is a european minimum tax. the majority of member states have much higher taxes. this means that member states have the possibility of reducing the cost of energy for their citizens by reducing taxes. the last point: expenditure on electricity and heating is a basic need. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. energy is as much a part of the european basket as housing, mobility or food. the member states are therefore obliged to review their energy costs every year and to make appropriate adjustments to their social benefits for the benefit of their citizens in need.
member of the commission. - madam president, we will be presenting a communication on the internal market in the autumn of this year. it shows how far the single market has come and where we see further action needed. i would like to answer your question in concrete terms by saying that i would very much welcome further approximation and harmonization of energy taxes. but, as you know, the harmonization of tax law requires unanimity, and mr šemeta and the commission in general very often observe that even sensible proposals for the harmonization of european tax law are not unanimously supported by the member states. that is why we are going to make slow progress in this area. but i would like to say again that i would support harmonizing energy taxes.
member of the commission. - mr watson, infrastructure is a key to the single market. we still have some member states which have only one pipeline and depend on one supplier and cannot choose which one. that is why we want all 27 submarkets, soon to be 28, to be integrated in the next few years. the connecting europe facility, with 9.1 billion over seven years for the energy sector, is our instrument for this. i agree with you that most of the infrastructure needs to be financed by the market and by the grid operators and by energy prices. a power line from rotterdam to cologne does not require co-financing. but if you want to connect malta with sicily and italy, for example, - malta has too few electricity and gas consumers - then you need european co-financing. or a sensible lng terminal for a state in the baltic sea region, or the integration of cyprus - in these areas co-financing makes sense. four years ago, you, the parliament, gave us four billion euros for a crisis programme. we have co-financed 60 projects and can show you today that with 10-50% co-financing we have started some interconnectors that would not have come or would have come later without us. we shall present to parliament in the spring our list of priorities, which projects of common european interest, i.e. of interest to more than one member state, we see to complete the internal market. then you decide if you want this. we are on the right track in the council. the connecting europe facility is already widely accepted in the council in the energy sector.
member of the commission. - mr president, you have read our communication on renewable energies from the spring of this year. we believe that the national support schemes for the establishment of renewable energy, namely wind and solar power, were right. but now there is a growing concern about european coordination and harmonization of these support rules. unfortunately, the member states have not yet made use of the possibilities available. i will give you an example: we are now working with the greek government to get helios projects back on track, i.e. photovoltaic and solar parks in greece, which are counted against other member states, which are therefore credited to other member states for their commitment to reach the 20% target. we generally believe that we cannot continue to have 27 national funding instruments, but that the whole thing must become increasingly european. the second problem is that some member states have unfortunately retroactively or abruptly ended their support laws for the development of renewable energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this does not create planning certainty and confuses investors. in other words, the principle that the investor must know what the funding will be in the next few years should apply throughout europe and not be violated, as has happened in some member states in the last three years.
madam president, commissioners, the third package, once it is fully implemented, is certainly a very important step forward in the creation of an internal market. but, mr oettinger, as you know, the proper implementation of the legislation depends above all on the existence of genuinely independent, professional infrastructure operators with no interests in other parts of the value chain. in addition, it is essential that there is sufficient infrastructure for interconnection between countries. in the present economic circumstances, the trigger for investment should not be merely market signals but the real needs of an integrated energy system. how does the commission intend to ensure that infrastructure operators are genuinely committed to the development of networks and take on the necessary long-term mission as envisaged in the third package?
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it involves the mobilisation of an amount to help denmark with regard to the 981 redundancies, of which 550 were at odense steel shipyard and four of its suppliers. the general employment situation in denmark deteriorated sharply between 2009 and 2010 and this egf support is intended to help this undertaking.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. according to the provisions of point 28 of the inter-institutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management(1) and of article 12 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006(2), the fund may not exceed a maximum amount of eur 500 million, drawn from any margin under the global expenditure ceiling from the previous year, and/or from the cancelled commitment appropriations from the previous two years, excluding those related to heading 1b. the appropriate amounts are entered into the budget as a provision as soon as the sufficient margins and/or cancelled commitments have been identified. as concerns the procedure, in order to activate the fund, the commission, in case of a positive assessment of an application, presents the budgetary authority with a proposal for mobilisation of the fund and, at the same time, a corresponding request for transfer. in parallel, a trialogue could be organised in order to reach an agreement on the use of the fund and the amounts required. the trialogue can take a simplified form.
in writing. - i supported this report which provides egf assistance to the company 'aragon construction' to deal with 836 redundancies, 320 of which are recipients of aid. due to the low population density of most of the territory concerned by this application and the risk of depopulation, the redundancies have a very negative impact on this region and could hamper efforts to encourage the population to stay in the area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, although i consider that this mechanism is clearly insufficient in the face of the helplessness of millions of spaniards in the face of the drama of unemployment, since it is nothing more than a palliative that in no way solves the serious consequences of the dismissals that are taking place under the pretext of the economic fraud we are living through, with which, disguised under the umbrella of the crisis, an unprecedented setback in the rights of workers is being justified, as is shown by the fact that companies are being allowed to dismiss even when they are making profits.
in writing. − the commission has presented a transfer request in order to enter specific commitment appropriations in the 2011 budget, as required in point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006. the trilogue on the commission’s proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf could take a simplified form, as provided for in article 12(5) of the legal base, unless there is no agreement between parliament and the council. according to an internal agreement, the committee on employment and social affairs (empl) should be associated with the process, in order to provide constructive support and contribute to the assessment of applications from the fund. empl has decided to table amendments to the report, as well as the traditional letter of opinion, which reflect their position and constructive input. the joint declaration of the european parliament, the council and the commission, adopted during the conciliation meeting on 17 july 2008, has confirmed the importance of ensuring a rapid procedure with due respect to the interinstitutional agreement for the adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the fund.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i fully support the establishment of a common framework of measures for the promotion of energy efficiency within the eu in order to ensure the achievement of the union's primary energy efficiency target of 20% savings by 2020 and to pave the way for further energy efficiency improvements beyond that date.
in writing. - i have supported the adoption of this report on energy efficiency because i believe that efforts to achieve more efficient energy systems must be stepped up, since, in addition to the orientation of energy policy towards renewable sources of production, energy efficiency is another way of increasing security of supply and reducing co2 emissions. this resolution will be a positive step towards achieving the already insufficient target of a 20% reduction in energy consumption in the member states of the european union. i have therefore supported this report, even though i believe that the pursuit of energy efficiency must go hand in hand with other energy measures, such as a radical change in energy production, including the phasing out of all nuclear power stations.
in writing. − this essential legislation is not only crucial for achieving our energy security and climate goals, it will also give a real boost to the economy and create jobs. crucially, it will reduce the sizeable and growing cost of our dependence on energy imports – eur 488 billion in 2011 or 3.9% of eu gdp – which is particularly stark in crisis-hit countries. policy at eu and national level must now be reoriented with a view to swiftly implementing and fully maximising the benefits of these new rules, which are a concrete tool for responding to the economic crisis. this includes mobilising european funds to support energy efficiency and savings, as well as creating training programmes – notably with a youth focus – with a view to creating employment in the sector and tackling unemployment. this is essential legislation, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − energy efficiency is one of the most affordable ways to increase our energy security. this directive will firstly create jobs, most of them in the construction sector, which has suffered greatly in terms of employment as a result of the current economic crisis. in addition, we are talking here about jobs with a significant and considerable local anchorage. secondly, this directive will help to combat the energy poverty that many households are currently facing. thirdly, it will save on energy imports and therefore reduce our dependence on external energy at the same time. it goes without saying that this dependence has an impact on our trade balance. finally, it is worth noting that it will act as an important stimulus to research and innovation in efficiency issues and will make our companies more competitive in a context where there is a growing global competition for increasingly scarce energy resources. i therefore voted in favour of a directive which could have gone further in the exemplary role of public administrations by requiring them to make a greater commitment to increasing the energy efficiency of their buildings.
in writing. − in favour. as my colleague and rapporteur, mr turmes, has said, this essential legislation is not only crucial to achieving our energy security and climate goals, it will also give a real boost to the economy and create jobs. crucially, it will reduce the sizeable and growing cost of our dependence on energy imports - eur 488 billion in 2011 or 3.9 % of eu gdp - which is particularly stark in crisis-hit countries. policy at eu and national level must now be reoriented with a view to swiftly implementing and fully maximising the benefits of these new rules, which are a concrete tool for responding to the economic crisis. this includes mobilising european union funds – such as the structural funds, project bonds and european investment bank funds – to support energy efficiency and savings, as well as creating training programmes – notably with a youth focus – with a view to creating employment in the sector and tackling unemployment.
in writing. − in favour. the request relates to a traffic accident in which mr walesa was severely injured. mr walesa has indicated that he would prefer a quick conclusion to this issue and is of the opinion that his immunity should be waived.
in writing. − in favour. as the facts of the case date back to 2006-2008, when birgit collin-langen was not acting in the performance of her duties as a member of the european parliament, the committee on legal affairs agreed to waive the immunity.
in writing. - i consider this resolution to be very important, not only because it continues to insist on the need for an effective and independent investigation into the cia's programme of secret flights, arrests and prisons, but also because it provides a clear basis for eu foreign affairs. i share the resolution's recognition of the value of transparency for democratic control of governments when it states that 'in no case should state secrecy prevail over inalienable fundamental rights' and that therefore 'arguments based on state secrecy can never be used to limit the legal obligation of states to investigate serious human rights violations'. the resolution also rightly raises the need for the fight against terrorism to be conducted with strict respect for human rights at all times and at all times. i support this, because under no circumstances and under no pretext can the fight against terrorism be conducted outside the international legal framework, as it has been done, and does not constitute a violation of human rights. i have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which demands that eu member states open independent investigations and sends a strong signal that calls for independent investigations into these secret prisons will not go away until the full truth comes to light. as an mep from galicia, which is deeply compromised in the area of human rights, i am very concerned that european countries may have assisted in the extra-judicial detention and transportation of detainees. this is particularly worrying if it turns out to be the case that these people were transported on to third countries where they faced torture. eu governments have obligations under international law and eu law. there is a political, a legal and also a moral responsibility to uncover the truth about any collusion in extraordinary rendition. we cannot expect the rest of the world to take us seriously on human rights unless we are willing to practise what we preach.
in writing. for as my colleague and rapporteur, hélène flautre, has already said, today's vote is a victory for the european parliament. he maintains his demand for truth against denial and oblivion. it gives priority to the democratic foundations of the union over national and partisan considerations. the report supports the existence of a vast secret and illegal system that has led to torture and enforced disappearances. it is based on new facts, including those from the air traffic databases held by eurocontrol. the report urges states to finally open up a genuine, thorough and transparent judicial process. each country has its share of responsibility, each actor has a grain of truth. the commission and the council must establish a justice dynamic at european level. the council must acknowledge the facts. the commission should develop a clear and concerted follow-up plan for national investigations. this report was awaited by the victims, their lawyers, international human rights organizations, ngos and journalists who have been witnessing and documenting crimes committed in the name of our security.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it highlights the need for a change in the current logic underlying the common european asylum system by clearly showing the need for asylum within the eu to be governed by real and effective principles of solidarity. i also think this resolution is important because it is a good call to the commission and the member states to look in the right direction at the current misconception of asylum policies. i have also voted in favour of this resolution because, among other things, it makes a clear call for the member states to respect and fully accept their responsibility for ensuring compliance with international and european asylum rules and goes a step further by advocating effective and uniform application of the union's asylum acquis in order to ensure high levels of protection throughout the eu.
in writing. − in favour. i agree with the rapporteur´s approach and so co-signed five of the rapporteur´s amendments. in addition, four more amendments were submitted that were taken aboard by the rapporteur and included, apart from the one regarding climate change that was not adopted; climate change will become the biggest driver for population displacement in the coming years, due to sudden or gradual alterations in the natural environment related to sea-level rise, extreme weather events, and drought and water scarcity; therefore our group expressed concern with the growing link between climate change and conflict, while emphasising the need to address the issue of climate refugees in the context of eu relocation and resettlement schemes as well.
in writing. − in favour. on 1 june 2011, the european commission adopted a ‘standardisation package’ composed of a proposal for a regulation aimed at revising and replacing the existing legal framework on european standardisation, an impact assessment and a communication providing a strategic vision for european standardisation for the next decade. the proposed regulation builds on two general public consultations held in 2009 and 2010, the work of the expert panel for the review of the european standardisation system (express), the white paper on modernising ict standardisation in the eu – the way forward, and the european parliament resolution of 21 october 2010 on the future of european standardisation. the purpose of this draft report is to cover the key issues that require close consideration in this proposal so as to facilitate the discussions in the committee. while the rapporteur reserves the right to table more amendments after having further examined the commission’s proposal and conducted further consultations, her intention at this stage is to generate a fruitful discussion in the committee and she looks forward to further suggestions.
in writing. − against, because the results are too mixed. adopted: our ams introducing labelling provisions for beef derived from cloned bovine animals or descendants of cloned animals - very good. electronic identification (eid): standards for eid shall be harmonised (delegated acts). ms can keep the current system, but are also allowed to make compulsory the use of one electronic identifier besides traditional means of identification (see briefing enclosed). in five years, the com shall submit a report on feasibility of mandatory eid everywhere in the eu, accompanied by a legislative proposal if appropriate (envi am adopted). very bad: the existing approval system of voluntary labelling of beef products is abolished. at present, any operator who wants to indicate information which is additional to the obligatory information on their labels has to send a specification to the competent authority of the member state, which has to approve the reliable functioning of the labelling system. this approval system, ensuring that consumers can trust what is indicated, is abolished according to the amendments adopted today. only general food labelling legislation shall apply to voluntary beef labelling, which is not enough for a sensitive product like beef.
in writing. - in this case, although traceability of the origin of meat is a measure which promotes food safety and quality, i consider that in the present situation it is not entirely appropriate, particularly as it may affect small livestock farms.
in writing. − in favour. in december 2010, parliament and the council agreed on a revision of the rules governing pharmacovilgilance at eu level by adopting directive 2010/84/eu and regulation no 1235/2010. this new legislation is due to come into force in july 2012. the rapporteur believes that the range of measures adopted in this new legislation will lead to improved safety of medicines at eu level by strengthening the role of the european medicines agency (ema) in collecting and acting on signal detection and increasing cooperation between member states. however, the emergence of a major medicine safety enquiry in france, the ‘mediator’ case in 2011 (see below) prompted calls for an urgent review of pharmacovigilance systems in the eu. the commission responded by carrying out a ‘stress test’ on the december 2010 legislation in order to identify any additional lessons which needed to be learned in the light of the mediator case. the result of the stress tests showed that while the new legislation did strengthen pharmacovigilance at eu level, there are some potential weaknesses in the eu system that need to be addressed. the commission is therefore proposing some further changes to directive 2010/84/eu and regulation no 1235/2010 to address these concerns.
in writing. − in favour. the commission’s stress tests suggest that though much improves under the new system, further changes are needed to close any potential loopholes. an automatic urgent procedure (article 107i, directive) the 2010 legislation already specifies a list of triggers which would activate the urgency procedure (e.g. if a member state withdraws a drug), but member states have some discretion over this. the commission is now proposing to make the urgent procedure purely automatic. · a new trigger for the urgent procedure (article 107i, directive) if companies decide not to apply to renew a marketing licence (as it was the case for mediator), and if this is due to safety reasons, then this should trigger the urgent procedure. · clarification of transparency obligations on companies (article 123(2), directive) when companies voluntarily withdraw a drug or do not reapply for a marketing licence they must specifically declare if this is due to a safety concern. (when servier did not reapply for authorisation for mediator in italy and spain, they claimed it was for commercial reasons.)
in writing. − in favour. the revision of the directive has the main objective to implement imo agreement from 2008 to reduce the sulphur content of fuels in specific sulphur emission control areas (seca) from 1.5% to 0.1% in 2015 and to introduce the global sulphur limit of 0.5% (from 3.5%) for all eu sea areas in 2020, or 2025, depending on imo. in addition, the more strict sulphur limit applicable for secas (baltic sea, north sea and english channel) was proposed to apply also to passenger ships on regular service between eu ports. without further measures, the ship based sulphur emissions would exceed all land based pollution by 2020, with significant health impacts as well as contribution to acidification. emissions from international ship traffic were responsible for approximately 50 000 premature deaths in europe in 2000 and external costs related to human health corresponding to 7% of the total health costs in europe . the implementation of the imo agreement into eu law represents probably the most significant air quality improvement introduced during this legislative period.
in writing. − in favour. the commission's proposal aims at amending article 103o of the single cmo regulation (1234/2007) which provides for a possibility for the member states to grant decoupled aid to vine growers under the single payment scheme (sps) as part of their national vine growers' programmes. during discussions on this com proposal concerns were raised about taking a fundamental decision regarding the future regime for the wine sector already in december of this year when the outcome of the cap reform (new system of direct support) is likely to be unknown. in order to avoid a definitive decision of wine fund transfers to sps at too early a stage the draft report proposes a possible solution for this problem. this proposal suggests to convert the existing 5-year measure into a one-year measure applicable only for 2014, and to provide for the possibility of making a 'one-shot' transfer (final and definitive decision) as from 2015. this proposal suggests also the possibility for member states to decide to exclude from to 2015 the wine areas from the eligible areas for direct payments.
in writing. − in favour. currently applied for the exchange of information pursuant to directive 2005/36/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 7 september 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications (‘the professional qualifications directive’) and directive 2006/123/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 12 december 2006 on services in the internal market (‘the services directive’), the imi system still operates on the basis of a commission decision and a commission recommendation, and as a result lacks a single legal instrument. this has been seen as a major obstacle to further expansion of the imi system, which has developed as an effective tool for different member states administrative structures in their day-to-day cooperation with their counterparts in other member states ensuring a proper channel of information exchange in different languages and guaranteeing at the same time a higher than traditional channels of communication level of data protection.
in writing. − in favour. it is scandalous that eu governments are still failing to take action against businesses dodging their tax obligations in the member states in which they operate at a time when eu exchequers are under such pressure. parliament has today voted in favour of strengthening the draft legislation, with a view to prohibiting the current practice of companies channelling profits through different member states and tax regimes to avoid their tax responsibility. these ‘legitimate’ tax avoidance schemes like the ‘double irish’ and the ‘dutch sandwich’ should be totally outlawed and member state governments should take on board today’s vote. parliament voted in favour of introducing an effective minimum eu tax rate on interest and royalties income, which would further limit the scope for corporate tax avoidance. if the eu is serious about tackling tax avoidance, immediate legislative steps must be taken to end the tax tourism and arbitrage that enables individuals and corporations in the eu to avoid up to eur 100 billion in tax payments.
in writing. − in favour. good result, at the end. the text considers that the eu is facing a crucial time, requiring strong and relevant decisions and calls on the commission, while planning its legislative work, to show more reactivity and flexibility to respond faster to the serious consequences of the crisis faced by eu citizens in their day-to-day life and strongly believes that the eu needs fiscal stability for growth, and growth for stability and prosperity and therefore that the crisis can only be tackled if the commission fully works both sides of this coin in order to restore credibility, to boost investments and to generate growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it analyses current eu trends in voluntary and unpaid tissue and cell donation and makes recommendations to improve the quality of life for people across europe and to increase the flow of donations between member states.
in writing. − in favour. the principles governing tissue and cell donation are set out in article 12 of directive 2004/23/ec: ‘member states shall endeavour to ensure voluntary and unpaid donations of tissues and cells. donors may receive compensation, which is strictly limited to making good the expenses and inconveniences related to the donation. in that case, member states define the conditions under which compensation may be granted.’ donated tissues and cells, such as skin, bones, tendons, corneas and haematopoietic stem cells, are increasingly used in medical therapies and as starting material for advanced therapy medicinal products. in addition, reproductive cells are used in the field of medically assisted reproductive technology, e.g. in vitro fertilization. the most controversial issue concerned cord blood donations into private cord blood banks. we wanted to introduce critical wording about private cord banks for potential autologous treatment, as the charter of fundamental rights prohibits making the human body and its parts a source of financial gain, yet private cord blood banks clearly have a commercial interest. we did not succeed in that, but managed to avoid any explicit promotion of private cord blood banks. we also managed to get rid of statements which tried to state that benefits in kind would not necessarily violate the principle of altruism.
in writing. - i support this report because it equates the green economy with a sustainable economy where it includes equality between men and women. it is necessary to establish a balanced participation in political life and in the ecological economy so that women's interests have the same weight as men's interests.
in writing. − a green economy must be a sustainable, social and ecological economy, as social sustainability includes a social order that is imbued with social and gender equality, regardless of gender, ethnicity, colour, sexual orientation, disability or political opinion. it is clear that environmental policies have a direct impact on people's health and socioeconomic status and that gender inequality, combined with a lack of sensitivity to the needs and economic and social disparity of women, often leads to women suffering disproportionately from environmental degradation and inadequate policies in this area. this is the case in my country, galicia, where women who work in agriculture and fisheries, in the seafood industry, suffer the consequences of a lack of environmental protection. so my vote is for supporting policies that support equality in the green economy.
in writing. − in favour. this report equates the green economy with a sustainable economy, which in turn includes both a socially and ecologically sustainable economy. this of course also means equality between women and men. a green or sustainable economy is a system which preserves the ecosystem’s productive capacity (the planet’s tolerance) while creating a society where the basic human needs of all are met. economic development in a green economy therefore takes place within the context of what nature can tolerate, and ensures a fair distribution of resources between people, between men and women and between generations. the green economy means that the needs of the planet and of humans receive the highest priority and that the goal is to create sustainable societies that are energy efficient and healthy, and in which all people, regardless of gender, age, ethnicity, colour, sexual orientation, disability or beliefs, may participate.
in writing. - i have supported this report because the working conditions of women in the service sector will improve if the guidelines set out here are followed. the majority of the female labour force is employed in the service sector. we have to deal with the underground economy, the wage gap, even in times of crisis, having the flexibility to balance work and family life.
in writing. the services sector accounts for over 70% of economic activity in the eu and a similar and growing share of total employment. precariousness is a persistent feature of the european union labour market, affecting women in particular because women are discriminated against in terms of pay and more affected by parttime work, and therefore suffer lower wages, have less social protection, are more limited in career progression, have less possibilities of economic independence, which favours their return to the private sphere and the consequent decline in the sharing of responsibilities; that women represent a large proportion of workers in undeclared work. the excuse of labour reforms, economic adjustments and social cuts made by states such as spain, together with austerity measures, worsen the rights of all women working in this sector. i therefore vote in favour of supporting policies which favour the improvement of working conditions for women in the service sector.
in writing. − in favour. in 2010, in the eu, employment in the service sector accounted for 69.4 % of all jobs, while in industry this figure was 25.4 % and in agriculture 5.2 %. most of the female workforce is employed in the service sector: 83.1 % compared with 58.1 % of the male workforce. almost half of women in employment are concentrated in 10 of the 130 occupations of the international standard classification of occupations: shop salespersons and demonstrators, domestic and related helpers, cleaners and launderers, personal care and related workers, other office clerks, administrative associate professionals, housekeeping and restaurant services workers, secretaries and keyboard operators, general managers, finance and sales associate professionals and nursing and midwifery associate professionals. this horizontal segregation follows certain stereotypes rooted in society, which assume that there are male and female jobs, and that the latter are associated with the work that women do in the home and are in some way considered as an extension of these (clothing and textiles, teaching, nursing, cleaning, etc.). it is also noted that there is a concentration of women working in the public sector, with 25 % of women compared with 17 % of men.
in writing. − i supported that report to boost education and training with the aim of reaching the criteria set out in the europe 2020 strategy. smart investment is needed, together with policy reforms and a fight against early school leaving. lifelong learning is not yet a reality for most citizens. transnational mobility is essential for acquiring new skills.
in writing. − in favour. ‘education and training 2020’ (et 2020) is the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training: it builds on the earlier ‘education and training 2010’ (et 2010) work programme. every two years, the education ministers and the european commission publish a joint report on the overall situation in education and training across the eu and assessing progress towards common objectives. the report summarises the actions and developments during the first 2009-2011 cycle of implementing ‘et 2020’ and suggests priority areas for european policy cooperation for the next cycle 2012-14. it highlights in particular how cooperation in education and training can support reaching the objectives of the ‘europe 2020’ strategy. key findings of the report: 1. need for smart investment along with policy reforms; 2. more efforts are needed to reach the europe 2020 headline target on early school leaving and tertiary education; 3. for the majority of eu citizens, lifelong learning is not a reality; 4. transnational mobility for acquiring new skills; 5. need to improve europe’s skills base.
in writing. − in favour. key issues for our group are legal content, accessibility and collective rights management: the report recommends that legal content be made more attractive in quality and quantity (insisting on subtitled works) and up to date, especially in reviewing micropayment systems when needed. insists also on greater coordination of legal rules between member states and legal certainty for both consumers and right holders, recommends that the eu digital companies remove geographical controls across the union and allow the purchase of digital services from outside the consumer's member state of origin.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am really honoured to present to you today the council’s position on the draft budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 which was adopted by the council on 24 july 2012. the council is of course ready to work with both parliament and the commission during the next few weeks and months in order to secure agreement on a realistic and balanced budget for 2013. i am confident that we can achieve this if we cooperate closely. the council is for its part ready to work constructively and in a spirit of compromise. the first budgetary trialogue, which took place on 9 july, was positive and encouraging. following discussions on the draft budget proposed by the commission, the council’s position on the draft budget for 2013 foresees an increase of 1.27% in commitment appropriations and 2.79% in payment appropriations as compared with the 2012 budget. i would like to draw your attention to the three important points which underpin the council’s position. firstly, the council decided to give priority to the programmes and actions of the eu budget which will help resolve the current economic crisis, support competitiveness and convergence, create employment opportunities and boost economic growth. secondly, since 2013 is the last year of the current multiannual financial framework, the council proposed an increase in the level of payment appropriations significantly above inflation. thirdly, the council took into account the measures taken by member states to consolidate their national budgets and, in the current economic context, particular emphasis was placed on keeping administrative expenditure under control in line with member states’ domestic policy. i will briefly set out the main elements of the council’s position on each of the headings and subheadings of the multiannual financial framework. starting with heading 1 (sustainable growth), the council considers that this heading should be one of the top priorities in the 2013 budget. it has therefore proposed a substantial increase in both commitment appropriations (+2.79%) and payment appropriations (+6.71%). this increase will ensure that adequate financial resources are available to implement the compact for growth and jobs agreed at the june european council. the council attaches particular importance to the implementation of the various programmes and actions under this heading which play a key role in the context of the europe 2020 strategy and will help deliver sustainable economic recovery. the council has also sought to secure an adequate level of payment appropriations for structural actions. it therefore agreed that under subheading 1b (cohesion for growth and employment), payment appropriations should grow by more than 8% compared to 2012. with respect to heading 2 (preservation and management of natural resources), the council proposes to stabilise the level of commitment appropriations compared to 2012. nevertheless, because of accelerated implementation in the final year of the current multiannual financial framework, it supports an increase of more than eur 440 million in payment appropriations compared to 2012. the cuts applied to this heading are the result of an analysis of past budget implementation and of expected absorption capacities. they are based on the latest information available and are subject to revision following the presentation by the commission of its traditional letter of amendment in the autumn at the end of the 2012 agricultural year. regarding heading 3 (citizenship, freedom, security and justice), the council supports modest reductions to both commitment and payment appropriations since it considers that the increases proposed by the commission would exceed realistic absorption capacities. nevertheless the council has proposed a substantial increase (+5% in payment appropriations) under subheading 3a (freedom, security and justice) in order to strengthen several budget lines, especially the one related to the external borders fund. with respect to heading 4 (the eu as a global player), the council set commitment and payment appropriations at a lower level than that proposed by the commission, taking into account past and current budget implementation and realistic absorption capacities, as well as the varying requirements of the different budgetary years. this heading, together with subheading 1a and 1b and heading 2, is covered by a statement on payment appropriations in which the council invites the commission to submit a draft amending budget if payment requirements in 2013 exceed expected needs. with respect to heading 5 (administration) the council, as usual, did not modify the european parliament’s section of the budget. with regard to the other sections, whilst the council acknowledges the efforts made by the commission and other institutions to limit the increase in their respective budget estimates, it identified further potentials for savings. as a result, it set the administrative appropriations for the commission and the other institutions at close to their 2012 levels. the council also rejected the creation of new posts in the establishment plans of the institutions, with the exception of posts related to the accession of croatia. furthermore, in the light of the commission’s proposal to reduce by 5% the number of posts during the period 2013-2017, the council has applied a 1% reduction of staff in the establishment plans of the institutions, apart from the european external action service due to its recent creation, and the european data protection supervisor and the european ombudsman due to their small size. finally, with regard to the decentralised agencies the council decided to maintain the level of appropriations for operational activities as proposed by the commission resulting in an increase of appropriations of +1.98% on average, nearly 2 percentage points higher than the nominal freeze applied to most of the institutions. the same 1% reduction of staff was applied to those well-established decentralised agencies. new posts were only accepted for agencies in the start-up phase or for those which have been given new tasks. overall the council has agreed to the creation of 185 new posts in decentralised agencies. more than one third of these will be for the three financial supervisory authorities (the european banking authority, the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european securities and market authority). mr president, i am convinced that the council’s position on the 2013 draft budget strikes the right balance between recognising the difficult economic situation in member states and providing sufficient appropriations in the eu budget to support programmes and actions with which we are aiming to address the economic crisis. in the compact for growth and jobs agreed at the european council in june, heads of state or government stated that ‘the european union budget must be a catalyst for growth and jobs across europe’. i very much hope that this will guide all of us in our discussions together over the next few weeks and months as we seek agreement on the 2013 budget. i thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission has already on several occasions clearly expressed its concerns concerning the reading in the council of the budget proposed for 2013. this was on the occasion of the trialogue on 9 july and in president barroso’s letter to the heads of state, as the council’s reading does not comply with, or even contradicts, the conclusions of the summit of european leaders on the so-called compact for growth and jobs. i can quote from the conclusions at the end of june where the leaders of the 27 states agreed that the european union’s budget must be a catalyst for growth and jobs across europe. i think that what the commission proposed for the last year of the present financial perspective, namely 2013, complied with the logic of this decision by the heads of state. we were pushing down commitments but in such a way that, through savings in many areas, we are able to increase headings for growth and jobs. but the main battle, as usual, is about payments. it will come as no surprise to learn that we have not much choice left at the end of the financial perspective. the programmes are gaining maturity and there are growing needs, and concerns as to investment capacity in many member states of the european union. the budget for 2011 was already too low – by eur 5 billion at least – which did not allow us to reimburse the ministers of 27 states. this does not help fiscal consolidation in the member states and increases the so-called outstanding commitments or rals. we were proposing an increase of 6.8% but this was in the areas of growth, competitiveness and jobs. i think that the measure of whether we are right or not is the development this year. i can inform you that, at this moment in time, our implementation is eur 9 billion higher than last year and last year there was already a shortage of money for reimbursements. we have now completely exhausted the social fund and the fund for competitiveness and employment, which is mainly for more developed regions of europe. that indicates that we were right to increase our requests for payments for the last year of the financial perspective, especially in the areas that are really contributing to competitiveness, growth and jobs. therefore i have to say once more that i am disappointed with the council’s reading, which cuts both commitments and payments, the latter by eur 5 billion. where are the most severe cuts? the biggest cuts are in heading 1a. what is the name of this heading? heading 1a is competitiveness for growth and employment, but this also covers cohesion. as regards cohesion, there is an assumption in the council’s reading about debt commitments and reimbursements – made too late – to the member states. this is also about our solidarity vis-à-vis our partners worldwide. there is also the question of administrative restraint. this should go as far as possible but cannot be detrimental to the efficiency of the administration which is entrusted with much bigger tasks now than previously. therefore we should rather concentrate on how to realistically establish the required level of payments for the last year of the present financial perspective. i am really grateful to the members of parliament, including alain lamassoure, for the initiative to discuss the criteria and the points of reference in order to have a decent level of payments, not one that is exaggerated but one which allows reimbursement of the money that is really needed. we need goodwill in these final weeks before the conciliation. we need to understand what the financial perspective is about. we should be serious about the growth and jobs compact decided on by the member states. therefore i still trust that we can manage this.
on behalf of the budg committee. - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the council for being here to explain its draft budget. it seems like a basic thing, but many times, in the past, we haven't seen it. i would also like to thank the president-in-office of the council for coming to explain his position, however incomprehensible it may often seem to parliament, although in many cases and in many respects it is not so far removed from our way of thinking and our objectives, which are to combat the crisis and promote growth and employment in the european union. the european commission has done its job well and it has been a consistent and consistent job. there is little point in extending commitment appropriations when there are not enough payment appropriations to deal with them. the commission is essentially seeking to eliminate an 'outstanding amount to be settled' gni which already amounts to more than the total union budget for 2012. is the president-in-office aware of the problem posed by an ral of this size? this ral means, above all, that the european union as a whole lacks the credibility to finance the projects it has committed to, which is the exact opposite of what the citizens of the union are asking for, who are looking for a more efficient and, above all, more credible european union. and then there is the council's traditional attitude of applying linear cuts to adjust budget forecasts to the pressures exerted by certain member states. mr president, that attitude should go down in history. it is useless because it distorts the correct application of the budgetary resources available. the commission's budget is not a budget for the european union, but for the european union itself. mr president, austerity and realism must be combined. the political groups in this house will, as always, take a positive view, seeking to combine european interests and the necessary balance in the national accounts, which have been hit hard by the economic and financial crisis. we expect you to be flexible and european. we expect it from all the actors. we must not forget that, although they are different years, the 2013 budget and the next financial perspective will be closely linked, both because of their proximity in the negotiations and because of the main problem: we do not need new commitments as much as we need money to pay for existing ones.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, madam high representative/vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr brok, on this report on the state of play of the common foreign and security policy, which is inseparable from the moment the european union is living in as regards the debt crisis, the euro crisis and the crisis of the european construction project. mrs ashton, we may be the world's leading importer of goods and services, we may be the world's leading exporter of goods and services, we may be the world's leading donor of humanitarian aid, tripling the aid given by the united states, but what credibility do we have on the international scene, despite your efforts and despite our own, if we are not able to resolve domestic problems promptly and effectively? the new european external action service and the new common foreign and security policy have been born at the most difficult time and in the deepest crisis the european union has been experiencing since its foundation. and it is clear that if we want to have a common foreign and security policy which is coherent, visible and effective, we must try to answer the questions raised by elmar brok in his introduction. how do we defend human rights in an international community that regards our charter of human rights as a western worldview? how can the principle of sovereignty and territorial integrity of states, enshrined in the charter of the united nations, be reconciled with the principle of the responsibility to protect in order to avoid crises such as the one in syria, which you said, mrs ashton, shocked you? how can we identify new partners in line with our worldview and how can we work with them and how can we meet the challenges posed by the northern and southern neighbourhood policy? difficult task, mrs ashton, i insist, to solve our problems outside, and this is not your responsibility alone; we shall see that tomorrow in the state of the union debate. we have to start by doing homework inside.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, i thank mr brok and mrs ashton. you both know that my group is a critical group, which does not share the current orientation in security and defence policy, because we believe that the time has come to start a transition towards a model which achieves the demilitarisation of security, in order to respond to what creates insecurity in the world today. first, hunger: 70 000 people die of hunger every day, while 4 000 million dollars are spent every day on armaments; then weapons of mass destruction, violence, unemployment and easily curable diseases. that is the question of security. that response is not to increase military spending, to have more weapons, to have military alliances like nato, which can intervene outside the mandate of the security council and which can do exercises of violence like iraq. we must listen to our delegate in her latest report on the situation in iraq to understand that this is not the way forward. the way is to start a different process, demilitarized, to achieve, through a redesigned united nations, the true democratic government of the world, to achieve that goal of peace.
madam president, as foreign and security policy is such a broad subject, i shall focus on three basic ideas: first, the union's external action must be ambitious. i want the european union to be a relevant player in a global, complex, multipolar, increasingly multipolar world, and we may soon see a certain retreat from us foreign policy. secondly, size matters in foreign policy, we europeans are stronger together than we are apart, and this ambitious outlook for europe is reflected in the strong report by mr brok which we shall be adopting tomorrow. thirdly, the treaty of lisbon provided new instruments for this policy. i am referring to the position you hold yourself, mrs ashton, as both high representative and vice-president of the commission. as you chair the foreign affairs council, it will now be less difficult to achieve unity, continuity and consistency in the union's foreign policy. in addition, you have a new instrument, the european external action service, which has been joined by diplomats from the member states who will enrich the commission officials' more economic, trade and cooperation-oriented vision with their experience in foreign policy. a final thought: a genuine union foreign policy will not only require time but also the fulfilment of two basic conditions, namely that the new bodies of the lisbon treaty have ambition, work with the aim of leading the 27, not of accompanying them, nor of drawing up minimum common denominators, and secondly that the member states are also aware of the need for joint external work, and that they act in a spirit, therefore, of compromise and a constructive spirit.
in writing. the maintenance of international peace and security is one of the eu's overriding objectives. today, in the struggle for democratic stability, we must not forget latin america, which faces major challenges such as the democratic consolidation mentioned above, regional integration, economic and social stability, poverty and, of course, security in the region. on the other hand, our latin american neighbours share our values and principles, they have several emerging countries, such as brazil or mexico, who are key members of international forums such as the g-20, and finally they have great economic potential with a growth of 10% for the next decade. in view of this situation, i believe that the european external action service should be committed next autumn to the multilateral agreement between peru and colombia and the eu, the association agreement with central america and the negotiation of the development cooperation instrument. it is a key region for the eu, and we cannot gradually disappear from it at the time of its greatest expansion. in conclusion, the eu is and must be more aware and more involved in the prevention and fight for the maintenance of security.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, honourable members, 18 months of fighting have seen over 25 000 people dead in syria, with many countless more made homeless or injured by the situation. august was the bloodiest month since the conflict began, and we have all recognised the appalling human rights violations and the destruction of the infrastructure of the country and of its cultural heritage. the situation in terms of humanitarian needs has got worse. we have over 230 000 refugees who have escaped into neighbouring countries and 2.5 million inside syria are in need of assistance, of which 1.5 million are displaced. still today, massacres continue and we see no end to the plight of so many innocent syrians. i begin by saying to you that the humanitarian track is an absolute priority. we have to work closely with the neighbouring countries to coordinate and help in the massive challenge of refugees leaving and those who are displaced internally. over these last two or three days i have spoken yet again to the foreign ministers of turkey and jordan. i also meet the prime minister of lebanon to talk about the challenges that they face and to try and offer additional support. i think turkey is doing a very impressive job in hosting the refugees, but they are flowing in greater numbers and that is becoming a big difficulty. as the foreign minister said to me, it takes a month to build a camp properly but only a very short time to fill it. refugees, particularly those in jordan and lebanon, are being hosted outside camps – in families, in schools – and it is having a greater impact too on the services that they need to offer and there is a real need for increased support. you have seen that commissioner georgieva announced over the weekend an additional eur 50 million of humanitarian funding, which puts us at the point of a contribution from the commission of eur 168 million and a total of eur 240 million across the european union. it is also really important, as well as providing the resources, a lot of which is going through ngos that are providing absolutely vital support on the ground, that we have assisted the syrian humanitarian forum, which exists under the leadership of the united nations, and that we are providing support for civil society through our neighbourhood policy instruments, both internally and to those who have fled to neighbouring countries, to try and help them to develop and support the civil society needs across the country. as i have said, we have children that we are supporting in jordan and in lebanon, through the un high commission for refugees, to help the capacity of the institutions and local communities that are working with about 300 schools to support children who are now coming in and who need school. as i have said many times before, we should never underestimate the importance of school and education for children who are traumatised by these terrible circumstances and of helping them to have some sense of normality in their lives. of course, we have suspended all our work with the syrian government but have stepped up assistance through the human rights organisations in the fields of activists; the networking and advocacy and a number of our contracts in syria are still in place. so we are still preparing additional funds in order to be able to support the humanitarian relief across all the things that i mentioned – education, food, water, support for people and organisational support. but as you will be the first to say to me, that is not going to end the crisis and we face a very dangerous stalemate with each side seeming to be convinced that the war may turn to their advantage. there could be more violence and suffering and the most radical elements on all sides will become stronger, bringing further militarisation and the risk of sectarian violence. we also are aware of the threat of chemical weapons, and that is being monitored extremely closely. but the truth is that, despite all the efforts, the international community is, in a sense, at a deadlock. the six-point plan has not been implemented, the un security council has not been able to agree on a common response that could open the way for a political solution. and the opposition, in spite of some real progress which we felt was being made in cairo at the beginning of july under the supervision of the arab league, remains fragmented. we do not yet have a real alternative to the regime in power and an alternative that is truly inclusive, something that i know that honourable members feel very strongly about. it is obvious that the regime is so clearly responsible for the conflict and that the parties have to do everything possible to find a solution, but we have a collective responsibility and we cannot wait. one would argue that the syrian people have waited for far too long and this stalemate could drag on, which would have impacts not only on the terrible things that are happening in syria but beyond into the region. the priority we have to have, beyond continuing to provide humanitarian aid and support, increasing it, working with member states, working with the international red cross and red crescent and working with those who are providing support to the un, is to find a way to reduce and stop the violence and the killing. we have to do everything we possibly can to find ways to promote this political transition and we have to be ready for the post-conflict moment, for the period of transition towards what we want to see, which is democracy. our approach has to change in a sense; we have to make real progress on this. i raised all this with the foreign ministers at the gymnich meeting at the weekend. it was clear, of course, that we are absolutely united that assad has to go and that we need to see this political transition move forward. we agree that, whilst the humanitarian track is an absolute priority and we must consistently urge the regime and the opposition groups to comply with their obligations under international humanitarian law, we have to continue to work on a number of different tracks: political, diplomatic and support for the opposition groups to come together and plan for the future. on the political and diplomatic track, the eu ministers reaffirmed their support for mr brahimi as the un-arab league joint special representative. i have offered him our expertise and our operational assistance in what is an extremely challenging task. he is working with the security council, with the neighbouring countries, with the arab league and with us. i remind honourable members that our delegation remains open in damascus and is ready to assist him and his team in any way. i have made that offer very clear to him and he and i will meet for a long discussion when we meet the general assembly in new york, where we have a meeting arranged and where we will also be meeting the secretary-general of the arab league together in order to look at what we can do regionally. we have to carry on urging a political solution and we have to devote our efforts to find a way to make contact with those who are striving for a peaceful process and that means continuing our outreach on the ground, which we do through the people we have on the ground and through all the contracts that we have as well. we have to bring the efforts together because without the support for mr brahimi it will be impossible for him to be able to coordinate and find the tangible results. we did everything we could to support kofi annan in what he sought to do to try and work to get the security council to be able to come together. we need to continue our diplomatic efforts involving all the key partners. i remain in regular touch with russia, with china, with all the neighbours of syria, with all the regional organisations i have already described and, of course, with ban ki-moon with whom i talked about this a few days ago. i will meet again with all of them as well as with foreign minister lavrov and secretary clinton in 10 days’ time in new york. it is absolutely going to be the focus of the un general assembly, where i hope we will take the opportunity to seriously discuss and make some progress across the united nations on this. i believe the security council has to work tirelessly to find common ground to support mr brahimi. it is absolutely essential that he gets that full support and is able to work in syria and develop the mission. one of the issues that i have already touched upon is the need to make sure that we work to support the opposition parties. i have said that we need to find ways of bringing them together and to help and support them to be able to find a transitional government that is ready to move forward. that means bringing all the efforts that are currently going on to do that together so that there is a common approach and a general move forward in that direction. so, we have the humanitarian aid support, which needs to increase, needs to be tangible, needs to reach people and communities. we have the support from mr brahimi in the efforts that he is making to try and find a political solution with the support of everyone, so that the united nations works together to find the common ground to push forward on this and that we work with the opposition groups, both inside and outside, to find the common ground that can bring together the transitional government-in-waiting and push forward in support of the people. we have facilitated a dialogue with the opposition groups and we ask them again to set aside their differences and agree on this shared platform of principles, particularly where we can see that they can work together in support of the people of syria and, of course, building on our approach on human rights to ensure that all are included regardless of faith, gender and so on. we also have to keep up the economic pressure as well. we have had 17 rounds of sanctions. we discussed at the weekend the need to see what more we can do and, as we do in all our sanctions, to make sure that they are being as effective as possible. we will move without further delay; the work has already started to see what more now could be done. as honourable members will be aware, accountability for the crimes that have taken place requires our full attention. these atrocities cannot go unpunished and we have been prominent in calling for a strong response to the systematic and widespread violations of human rights, to combat impunity and hold accountable those responsible for crimes against humanity and war crimes in syria. through the current human rights council session we will push this forward. we have proposed to provide support to enhance that accountability, the efforts of the independent commission of inquiry, which we want to see extended, and other un bodies and mechanisms. it is of course incredibly difficult to predict the end of this crisis. we have started the planning for the transition, preparing the set of actions at eu level in which we can add value from day one and to coordinate that with our member states and international organisations. that means ensuring that we have the capacity to increase our presence inside syria as soon as the situation allows. it means leading on and working towards effective donor coordination and starting to prepare for a very rapid post-conflict needs assessment. all these things need to be done as well and are being done now. it means setting aside the funds that we are going to need to be able to do this because, as well as the additional support for humanitarian aid, we have to find the resources to be able to support the people and to support the transition that is going to be moving forward. all i can say to end is that we have to begin with the principles that we hold dear, that the future of syria belongs to the syrian people, and we have to help them in every possible way that we can. we have engaged in every aspect of trying to find solutions – diplomatic, political – working with member states to ensure that we are absolutely determined in supporting the efforts of the security council, the efforts to bring a common position that will enable the united nations to move forward and efforts to see what can be done to support the countries of the region, which are, as we speak, dealing with the impact in every possible way and, in doing so, to be able to put the resources behind the words and actually try and help find a solution for the people of syria.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, madam high representative and vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, in the previous debate, mrs ashton, you said that you were shocked by the situation in syria and i think we have exhausted all the qualifications. indignation, frustration, impotence, and meanwhile, a bloodbath continues to occur in the country. and facts: kofi annan's resignation in a plan that was doomed to fail from the start. and statements, many statements: statement by the new special envoy, saying that this is an almost impossible mission - i wonder why he has accepted it - statement by the minister of the presidency of the council, saying that new sanctions will be imposed on syria; statements by the swedish minister, saying that he does not believe they will have any effect; statements by the french minister, saying that pressure must be increased. in short, too many statements and too few facts. and, as you very well said, mrs ashton, the situation is still the same as it was months ago, but with more deaths. the regime is relying on the complicity of russia and china in the security council and the opposition is gaining supporters in the regional board, hoping that, sooner or later, there will be an international intervention. in the meantime, i think the time has come for the european union, mrs ashton, and the regional actors to make some decisions. i would ask you to comment on a few specific points: whether or not you agree with the statement by the united states ambassador to the united nations, who said that the time has come to do something if the security council does not move forward; whether you believe that the introduction of humanitarian corridors is feasible; whether you believe that a no-fly zone is possible; whether it is desirable and appropriate to arm, support and assist the opposition. mrs. ashton, over 20,000 dead people are calling us to action and we need to move from words to deeds. you have done a great job in providing humanitarian aid and you continue to do so, but we do not have the vocation of being an international red cross. we want to have the political weight, with other actors, to stop this carnage.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, these walls have heard vehement speeches on other occasions in favour of war, in favour of military intervention to purportedly resolve conflicts. iraq and afghanistan. i do not share, at all, the need to turn syria into an iraq and an afghanistan, which are more insecure, which have created death and destruction; and it has been talibanised - talibanised! afghanistan. there were no weapons of mass destruction in iraq, there was no al qaeda behind it, and they intervened. to make the world more unjust. and in syria, indeed, we have to condemn the crimes and repression of assad, but also those of the opposition, and the terrorist acts of the opposition, and the jihad of the opposition and al qaeda of the opposition. and the only possible solution is peace. and so we must, indeed, support the un special envoy and engage all the states in the region, including iran, to actually engage in a ceasefire, for the syrian people to self-determination, but not to bring a government of one color or another based on what is best for one or the other, as the united states or saudi arabia do. i'm not going! no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, this is not for the free syrian people to self-determination and an end to this horrible civil war. it's not about adding fuel to the fire, mr verhofstadt. it is not about that, it is not about pushing for there to be, indeed, a foreign military intervention that would lead us to chaos in the region. the chaos!
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, let me begin by making something very clear. we are not doing nothing. i think sometimes some honourable members have the mistaken idea that if you have a military activity, that is action, and that somehow diplomatic activity is not. on behalf of the tireless work that our delegation does every day in damascus in syria, and in the united nations and elsewhere, i must ask them to remember the efforts they make. i paid tribute to our head of delegation for syria at the heads of delegation conference because i know how much he does and the challenges and risks he has to take. it would be wrong of this house not to recognise those activities. we are not doing nothing. there is a huge amount going on. what i tried to point out were the areas of activity where we have been able to show real progress. honourable members will appreciate that we have looked at every single idea that they have put forward – and many others. there are people in brussels and across the european union – military experts and others – who look at every possible way in which we could engage with syria. they also look at the way in which we have engaged historically and they look at the political needs that we have in so doing. syria is not libya and you should not mix them up. they are completely different in every possible way and we have to recognise that. a security council resolution led the way in libya. we knew that a no-fly zone was a military action. it is not a benign activity. it is something you do using military assets. if you move in and decide you are going to take military action you have to recognise the size and scale of what is being asked and ask how to do that, what one can be sure about when one goes in and how many countries are willing to put young men and women on the line to do that. i believe a political solution is what we have to work towards. the situation on the ground is very difficult. yes, there are jihad fighters. yes, there are people from different groups on the ground. no, it is not our fault that they are there, but yes it is true. the situation has become more difficult and more confused, and because we cannot get the opposition groups to come together with a coherent and comprehensive view of what the transition would be in support of all the people, it is even more difficult to establish a way in which we can do this, but we have to keep trying and we do. every single day we work on these issues, every single day we work with the neighbouring countries. every single day we work with the security council members. every day we work with our delegation on the ground, with the international ngos and with the red cross and others. do not accuse us of inactivity please. in terms of what i think you want to see happen, i understand your frustrations. i really do. i understand the passion. i share it. it is a horrendous situation, but we have to be careful and clear about what we can do to engage with it. when i met with the 27 foreign ministers that is what we talked about. we talked about all the possibilities. we talked about what we felt we could do and we came to the conclusions that you have seen in the council conclusions. let me just add, by the way, the reason for the council conclusion on getting member states to check what is going through their countries is precisely because this parliament asked us to. that is why we did it. now i find, perhaps, that that has not been accepted for what it was. but it was you who asked us, and i did it, and that is why it matters that we continue to insist that member states ensure that what is going through their ports is checked whenever they have reason to believe it is necessary. it is also why we continue to look for more sanctions that we can place on the regime, not least to send the strongest and clearest message to everyone else that we want to see assad go and we want to see a solution inclusive of the people of syria, and born of the people of syria, that will help them get the kind of society that we think most people want, because the truth is most people in syria want assad to go and want a solution. that is what we have to build on and that is what we have to support, and to do it in a way that we believe can be effective. we have worked really hard with the security council members. i spent eleven hours in geneva talking with members of the security council and others to try and get the geneva discussion to bring in everyone. i work hard in the core group of the friends of syria. we attend and discuss many meetings all the time to try and find a way through this. we are not inactive. |the european union is respected for what we try to do in supporting the people of syria and trying to find a way through this incredibly difficult challenge. frankly, honourable members, if it was easy to find a solution to this we would have done so already. it is not hiding under a cushion somewhere; it is amazingly difficult. people across the world are trying to engage and find that solution. so, before we leap to the conclusion that unless you have military activity you are inactive, let us really consider what we mean by that. let us really consider the implications of the big words translated into action on the ground and start thinking properly and comprehensively about what we do, including in the days after. because if we do not start preparing for that now – and the state department are right to prepare for it – we will not be ready for what could be a situation which crumbles very quickly and where we will have to be ready with assets to move in, to support people in all the places we have been unable to reach. to get the infrastructure working and to get people into a future is going to need an enormous amount of effort. if we do not get the planning done for that now, we will not be in a position to help people. so i encourage you to support the us and us and everybody else in doing so. honourable members, i hope i have given you a sense of the passion i feel about this issue. i take my responsibilities seriously, but we have to find solutions which we know are going to work, that we can engage with members of the international community to achieve and, most of all, that we believe will bring peace as quickly as possible and not an escalation of violence.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 september 2012 at 12.00 hours. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the use of the judiciary for political purposes in russia.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i would like to begin by thanking all the rapporteurs for their reports, but i would also like to highlight the excellent cooperation with mr gallagher, which has led to the adoption at first reading, with the agreement of all the institutions, of measures which will allow rapid action to be taken to curb unsustainable situations, such as the one we are experiencing with iceland and the sharing of mackerel stocks. as regards the stevenson report on the reform of the common customs tariff, i shall refer in particular to the consumer information chapter, to which the commissioner has referred, and in which i believe the commitments made clarify and simplify the original proposal. the commission proposal, madam commissioner, which confused a lot of information with good information, would oblige, as in the case of article 42 (2), to give a whole series of data which would complicate and unnecessarily increase the costs of the industry without providing anything relevant to the consumer, who would also be unable to digest such a lot of details. we have also tried to strike a balance between the interests of the different fleet segments and of industry. for example, the obligation to indicate the date of catch is interesting for the more artisanal fleet, but very harmful for the other fresh fish fleets, without affecting the quality of the product. replacing it with the date of landing, as stated in the undertaking, gives the consumer the same guarantees, while allowing the date of capture to be indicated in any case in the voluntary information, if this is desired.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all, i would like to subscribe 100% to what my colleague lövin has said. i would refer, basically, to the gallagher report. the fact that the eu, on the one hand, and iceland and the faroes, on the other, have been waging a – mostly diplomatic – war over quotas for mackerel in the north-east atlantic has had as a consequence that the fish is being severely overfished, for the eu and norway maintain their historic quotas, while iceland and the faroes have declared large unilateral quotas. the total catches thus far exceed the scientific advice. this being so, it means that if a country fails in its international obligations regarding fisheries management, the eu can threaten an import ban on any fishery product coming from that country that swims in the same ecosystem. this is a significant step down the path of ensuring that only sustainably caught fish enters international trade. however, its importance depends upon the eu market, which is currently huge, though there are alternatives, especially in emerging markets such as china, brazil etc. nonetheless it is a very positive outcome.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate everyone, the rapporteur and the members of parliament, who have contributed to the document being enriched by a fundamental objective which we all share: the sustainability of fisheries and fishery resources, and at the same time the rights of citizens to consume a fishery product of the highest quality, with the highest guarantees, knowing that there are conflicting interests. as i have only a few minutes, i will say that the socialist group supports and maintains an amendment which we would like to see accepted, which defends the basic rights of citizens, which says that we are consumers and that we are the ones who buy the fish which our producer organizations have to process, market and sell, because we are not talking about any product, ladies and gentlemen. we are talking about a product that is a food and that we intend to improve what we call the "healthy diet" for our childhood, for men and women. we also want europe to be a reference point in healthy consumption, and information on a right as basic as the right to a healthy and wholesome diet cannot be stolen from citizens.
mr president, allow me to make my contribution to this joint debate on fisheries policy a statement of demand. today we are discussing good reports which very well define the efforts of this parliament to achieve sustainable fishing by preserving fishery resources or which attempt to provide an organization of markets in which the consumer is not only protected but also well informed. we also stress the need to take action against those who allow unsustainable fishing, and we do this through dialogue, debate and agreement. but unfortunately these efforts are being met by those who sometimes confuse confidentiality with a lack of transparency, with negotiations of protocols behind the backs of this parliament, and what is worse, behind the backs of those who should be the beneficiaries of the agreement itself. commissioner, we still have time to rectify this. please do it! they also clash with those who are not so much concerned with blocking the use of instruments which are fundamental to the development of the sector as with not losing powers which the treaty itself does not grant them. mr. minister, we're also on time. unlock the management plans now. it is important for the fisheries sector and therefore for the citizens of europe and for us. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not disrupted, and that the fishing fleet is not disrupted. we must do so thinking of the fishermen in galicia, andalusia, the canary islands and elsewhere in europe. they expect something very simple from us, that we do not disappoint them.
mr president, commissioner, as we said a few days ago at a joint meeting of representatives of the fisheries sector in galicia, it is important that seafood products contain mandatory information for consumers. we need strict certification of fishery products, especially imported fishery products, so that they meet the same requirements as those we require of european producers. mr stevenson, thank you for accepting our proposals, such as including extensive aquaculture or including the european mussel that many people in my country eat, and also for the promotion of protected designations of origin as a guarantee of quality of seafood. but this report is also shady because in article 42 (2) consumers of preserved fish and seafood products are deprived of a right, the right to see on the label the trade name of the species, how it was produced and where it was caught and grown. as a result, anonymous processed products from third countries will benefit from ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. we cannot forget those who died in london and madrid, nor can we forget the many victims of terrorism in europe, such as those caused by the terrorist organisation eta in my country, spain. the victims of terrorist attacks are all citizens, but there are some who pay with their lives to defend our freedom. and that is why, mr president, i am giving up part of my speaking time, including my speaking time at the end of the debate, to observe a minute's silence for all of them. (the sitting was suspended for a minute) i would like to thank commissioner reding for her sensitivity to the victims, the council for its flexibility, mrs parvanova for her excellent work and the members who have followed this report. tomorrow will be a key day not only for the victims but also for all citizens, and believe me, anyone can become a victim; the statistics are striking: 75 million people a year are victims of crime in europe. i think it is time to put victims in the place they deserve, that is to say, at the centre of the debates in this parliament, because, although the economic situation is our main concern today, i am aware that in most european countries there is a great deal of concern about the functioning of justice. and this directive, which says loud and clear to victims that their rights will not be ignored and that they will be treated with respect and dignity, will serve to build confidence in justice. the response to the justice demanded by victims starts in europe: a transparent and effective framework that restores to citizens the rights and hope that they have lost, in some cases, in their judicial system. regardless of the nationality and the place where the crime was committed, victims shall have the right to be informed, to understand and to be understood, to legal assistance, to be heard and to be protected. victim support organisations will be able to participate by providing psychological support and advocating for victims at all times. i have heard many testimonies, all of them very harsh, but necessary in order to understand the needs of the different victims, and i must say that i give this directive to them, and especially to my brother alberto and his wife, who will be watching me from heaven. today from here we are taking a significant first step to help a parent who has lost their child in another country, a victim of an assault, or a girl who has been raped and does not know how to start and what to tell the police. i think we'd have to go through this nightmare and this is where we're helping all of them. i hope that this compass will guide not only the victims as they cross the desert of criminal proceedings, but also all those who must help them on their way through the pain, such as judges, police officers and legal experts, also in the case of children; i also want to give them this directive. today is a very important day for the victims, for all, of gender-based violence, human trafficking, terrorism, organized crime, minors, the disabled, and those who have gone through the ordeal of a crime. unfortunately, we cannot give them back their loved ones, nor can we give them back their honor, nor can we give them the lost peace, nor their health, but we can assure you, all of us here today, that we will continue to work to give them back their rights, their dignity and their faith in justice. i am committed and i ask that tomorrow this whole parliament commits itself to me.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to begin, of course, by thanking the two rapporteurs, mrs parvanova and mrs jiménez-becerril, whose dedication and work have made it possible to carry out difficult negotiations with the council, but also to bring to a conclusion this important dossier for all the victims of the european union. we share the commission's view that there is a need to create a comprehensive legal framework to provide care and protection to victims in the european union, and therefore to cover issues relating to the right to information, the assessment of victims or support services. these are fundamental elements and i think they have been well covered in this dossier. but as rapporteur for the socialist alternative on the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i would like to make a special reference to the inclusion in this text of women who are victims of gender-based violence. our group has been calling on the commission for some time to draw up a european directive to combat gender-based violence against women. we have found a negative answer and we think it was important that, at least in this text, a reference be made to a social scourge such as violence against women. there is still much to be done, of course, but this is a step forward and i believe that, with the good will of everyone, we have managed to say that today we are making progress in the fight for equality and against the social scourge of gender-based violence.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, the council, the commission and all the members and their teams for the sensitivity and effort they have devoted to improving care for victims of crime throughout europe. i also thank you for your support to the victims' associations, especially those linked to terrorism, which have helped me to do my job better, with contributions such as the one-stop shop or the definition of persecution violence. the directive will give victims across europe greater guarantees to participate in criminal proceedings without cost, and overcoming language barriers or disability problems. there will be more and better training of carers, and special attention to victims with special needs, such as victims of gender-based violence, minors, and victims of organised crime and terrorism. europe is thus denouncing violence with more than words and turning this rejection into active solidarity. in this 11-s europe is committed to humanity and prevents any desire for revenge with justice, recognition and reparation.
mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteurs for all their work. however, i would like to stress some of the key points which are crucial for our group. gender-based violence, as well as violence in close relationships, is defined for the first time in eu legislation. this is a huge success given that commissioner reding’s proposal was – i am sorry to say – gender-blind in the beginning. in fact, the seriousness of gender-based violence was denied as was the request for a separate directive on gender-based violence. we have also managed to highlight and include reference to victims of race and hate crimes or abuse. another success were the proposals with regard to victims’ access to support and protection without discrimination of any kind including their residence status, and regardless of the participation of victims in criminal proceedings, which were adopted by the rapporteurs and the commission and were thus accepted by council as well. this means that irregular migrants who are victims of crimes will have access to the rights, support and protection afforded by the directive regardless of whether the victim makes a formal complaint of a criminal offence.
mr president, the report we are debating today is a great step forward for all the victims of crime and barbarism. the recognition of the right to a fair trial is being improved and criminal proceedings are being strengthened. in purity, now the victims will have more legal security and society will be more sensitive to suffering and pain. i congratulate the two rapporteurs on their excellent work and tenacity, but i am particularly referring to teresa jiménez-becerril, a double victim of terror; with her committed activism and the complicity that i so much appreciate in mrs reding, they have opened a window to which others will follow so that judges, governments and civil society can identify well the courage, the example and the drama of so many victims, providing them with guarantees, justice and respect. today too, mr president, i would like to send a message of solidarity to the american people for the terrible tragedy of 9/11. i send you the testimony of my solidarity wrapped in a heartfelt prayer.
mr president, the directive we are discussing today complements the european protection order which we have already adopted, although the regulation is still pending, mrs reding, as you know, and which was put forward by spain and other member states during the spanish presidency. the best protection is to make the crime non-existent. but since prevention in many cases is difficult, very difficult or almost impossible, it is our duty to give victims the tools to overcome their tragedies. i therefore thank the rapporteurs. therefore, emotional and psychological support is important, even if the victim has not reported, to make this report possible. it is also important that the directive stresses that member states must ensure that victims are compensated. in the case of gender-based violence, this mention of compensation is very important as a deterrent and compensatory measure. however, this directive will be a blank piece of paper, mrs reding, if the commission does not envisage support for the member states in the community programmes which have financed this preferential line. in the 2013-2020 multiannual financial framework, justice-related programmes have been restructured, it is said with the aim of rationalizing and simplifying, but the overall section on rights and citizenship is very broad and there is no mention of victims. mrs reding, recital 25 speaks of urging non-governmental organisations to engage in the defence of victims and article 7 speaks of specialised services. let's get the media in europe and make mention. i would like to ask you, mrs reding, to ensure that the daphne programme does not disappear, so that all those who have worked to make this issue less serious can have peace of mind and we can really help to bring this directive into force.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank once again all those who have made this directive a reality: the secretariat, the commissioner, the rapporteur, all those i have forgotten and all the colleagues who have been with us. i want to say to all the victims, absolutely all of them, without distinction, that for us, they and their families have a face, they have a name, they are real, and it is in their name that we will work so that this directive is not just a piece of wet paper, but that, with the commitment and help of commissioner reding, which i have no doubt about, it will be implemented quickly and effectively, which is what we all and all citizens hope for. i think there are different groups of victims who would have wanted and still want a directive of their own, but i will tell you that the directive we are voting on tomorrow does not forget any victims and therefore does not forget them either. and i'm sure that this is an important first step, that will be followed by many other steps that will open those doors of justice, that have been closed for too long to the victims. when i am asked - as i am asked in my own country - what i am doing in europe, i can say with great pride that i am legislating for the victims. and that job, personally, honors me deeply and gives me a lot of strength to keep working. i am sure that with the support and commitment of those of us who work not only here in europe but also in our countries, and also with that of your colleagues, we will succeed in bringing the victims of this unjust oblivion out of the way.
mr president, mr president of the commission, your speech has often been more reflective than it was about finding solutions to today's problems, but there are two points i must acknowledge and on which i wish to insist. the first point concerns the recognition of internal imbalances between the states and between the citizens of the union. yesterday parliament adopted a resolution on the commission's work programme and expressed its support for a symmetrical approach to the macroeconomic imbalances within the union. i think the commission should encourage those countries which are now taking action to enable those who are having problems to take action in a balanced and supportive way. and finally, i believe that an effort must be made to maintain the european food fund in a union where poverty, as you yourself have acknowledged, is still increasing.
mr president, the state of the union includes 25 million unemployed, clashing public opinions and growing inequalities. the commission you are chairing risks, like no other in history, leaving behind a legacy of tolerating the retreat from the community method and the increase in national and intergovernmental retreats. the treaty of lisbon made this parliament the most powerful in history, not only in amending banking supervision but also in recalling the problems raised by citizens' rights, the free movement of persons, social integration and territorial cohesion in the european union, as well as the deterioration of mutual trust between the member states. and so i think that this parliament has an obligation to express its displeasure at a misdiagnosis in the management of the crisis, a failed strategy and a recipe which has produced catastrophic social damage. and so it must propose another europe with an increase in the european budget and a fiscal pact to combat fraud, tax havens and inequalities within and between member states, to allow the social model to be maintained without being overthrown.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the council, yesterday two million people demonstrated in barcelona, catalonia. these citizens had a demand to make: yes, more europe, a better europe, a different europe, but a europe in which they could participate directly, as a state and as a people. the message of these citizens is legitimate, clear and democratic. it is up to us, the european institutions, to respond to them in an equally democratic and courageous way. i'm asking you to rise to this enormous challenge. are you? because listening to people is also one of the pillars of europe and it is what gives the european project all its credibility. the catalans have always been pro-european. they want to remain so, but the current situation is causing great distrust and a sharp rise in euroscepticism. i hope, my friends, that we can approach this debate with the responsibility and maturity that the situation deserves.
mr barroso, we are representatives of the european peoples with the democratic legitimacy to defend their rights here, rights which are not often defended by the member states, as was seen yesterday in the streets of barcelona. mr barroso, i am a member of parliament from galicia and the state of my nation, like many other european territories, is in a deep crisis. the crisis is the result of austerity policies, social cuts and anti-social measures. the example of the navy, agriculture, fishing, bank robbery, the immoral rate of youth unemployment. if the people of europe are to continue to believe in europe, europe must be on the side of the people and not against them. let us return, mr president, to the europe of the peoples and the europe of social europe.
in writing. − in favour. gender-based violence as well as violence in close relationships is defined for the first time in eu legislation (recital 8f) which is regarded as a huge success due to the fact that commissioner reding's proposal was gender blind; in fact the seriousness of gender-based violence was denied, as was the request for a separate directive on gender-based violence. the greens also managed to highlight and include reference to victims of race, hate or other bias crimes. another success was our proposals regarding access to victim rights, support and protection without discrimination of any kind, including residence status, and regardless of victim’ participation in criminal proceedings, which were adopted by the rapporteurs and the commission, and were thus accepted by council as well. this means that irregular migrants who are victims of crime will have access to the rights, support and protection afforded by the directive, regardless of whether the victim makes a formal complaint of a criminal offence. the agreed wording also adopts the language of the charter of fundamental rights regarding the prohibited grounds of discrimination, which is broader than the five grounds of discrimination protected by the eu equality directives.
in writing. - i have supported this report which seeks to amend three council regulations in the field of imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey, as regards the delegated and implementing powers conferred on the commission by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - i have supported this report to amend the mutual recognition agreement with australia which has been negotiated to improve and simplify its operation.
in writing. - as in the case of australia, this report, which i support, amends the agreement on mutual recognition in relation to conformity assessment between the european community and new zealand.
in writing. - i voted in favour because this regulation will help to achieve the objective of cooperation between states to achieve sustainable fishing, with the instrument designed to punish those who overexploit stocks and do not contribute to their maintenance. i therefore share the need for control over iceland and the faroe islands, because of their behaviour in the mackerel fishery. the amendment will mean that they will not be able to use eu ports for landing their catches, and it also means that imports will not be possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour. the eu, on the one hand, and iceland and the faroes, on the other, have been waging a (mostly) diplomatic war over quotas for mackerel in the north atlantic. following changes in the migration route of mackerel, first iceland and then the faroes have asserted that the stock comes into their waters and so are claiming a quota. the eu, the largest fisher of the stock, is willing in principle to agree to this, but negotiations have stalled for several years over the actual amount. as a result, mackerel is being severely over-fished because the eu and norway maintain their historical quotas and iceland and the faroes have declared large unilateral quotas. total catches thus far exceed the scientific advice. the eu’s room for manoeuvre is limited, especially since most of the commission and the csl do not consider fish important enough to derail the accession negotiations with iceland. virtually all it can do is to prohibit landings of mackerel by iceland-flagged vessels in eu ports, but that amounts to almost nothing, as alternative ways into the eu are easily available.
in writing. − in favour. this is the first of three legislative reports on the reform of the cfp, dealing with the market in fisheries and aquaculture products. the other two are the basic regulations governing the cfp and the emff (subsidies). a common market organisation (cmo) for fisheries and aquaculture products has been in place since 1970. it is one of the pillars of the cfp. its legal basis is regulation 104/2000, adopted in 1999, which will be replaced by the current proposal. in its preparation, the com has concluded that the market has not sufficiently contributed to sustainable production; many eu fisheries are not exploited in a sustainable way and there are few market mechanisms to discourage unsustainable practices and to provide market premiums for sustainable ones. similarly, it has proved difficult or impossible to anticipate or manage market fluctuations. a very limited consumer label was introduced in 2000 and has been much expanded in the report (now to include better explanation of where the fish comes from - which body of water, the flag of the vessel, inside or outside the eu, etc. )- though we failed to get included the gear type used to catch the fish and an indication of whether the stock is overexploited or not.
in writing. - i have supported measures against countries that allow unsustainable fishing; also the first cfp reform reports including the new cfp regulation on fisheries and aquaculture. this is the first time that the european parliament has participated as a co-legislator in the establishment of the new cfp. i share the objectives of the reform of the cmo: to improve market incentives for sustainable production practices, to improve the market position of community production, to help producers respond to structural changes and market fluctuations, to consolidate the market potential of eu products and to improve governance. the final report on the cmo takes up a good part of my amendments and contains progress on the sustainability of resources, the competitiveness of industry and the improvement of consumer information. i regret that there has been no support for the coastal fisheries with 24-hour tides to value their products by indicating the date of catch. the uniqueness and special treatment for small-scale fisheries and aquaculture, including shellfish, as well as the development of product quality policies, are included.
in writing. − abstention. the proposal had very weak points. for instance: most of the parts dealing with security and defence capabilities and the paragraphs on the european defence agency. the chapter on nato welcomes the new strategic concept avoiding any criticism of, for example, the development of a civilian crisis management capability that sounds like a duplication of eu's one and the development of a ballistic missile defence capability. and the part of latin america welcoming all the free agreements finalised or under negotiation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it is necessary to adapt capacity to the available fisheries resources, something which has not been addressed so far by the measures of the previous reform. it is therefore necessary to adopt technical measures so that we have long-term management plans for all fisheries that can be managed in a decentralised way. before applying measures, it is necessary to know what is meant by excess capacity and fishing capacity, and to know the actual fishing effort.
in writing. − i voted in favour. the report is generally pretty good. some of the decisions that are decisive for the reform – on the objectives of management, for example, as well as the adoption or not of rules requiring privatisation of the right to fish, and the discard ban – have been dealt with rather generally, in the direction of our policy but without the controversial dates of application. so that is positive. equally positive is language about the need to punish member states which fail in their obligations to enforce the rules of the common fisheries policy, as well as mention of our environmental and social criteria for the right to fish. nonetheless, some negative things have crept in, including language reflecting the silly and irrational belief by fishermen that killing seals will bring back the fish stocks. neither of the commission’s documents mentioned this at all, but it is a favourite issue for a few meps and so both reports support the killing of seals (and cormorants!). we tried to remove these references, but failed.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the previous fisheries policy has shown us that it has not met the objectives, since many species are still overexploited. the fishing fleet is facing profitability problems. the appropriate measures must be taken. we therefore need to know the real fishing capacity and effort in europe, and fish stocks must be maintained at levels close to those which can generate the maximum sustainable yield, and this must be implemented regionally and with the necessary appropriations from the european fisheries fund for the renewal and modernisation of fleets in the restructuring which will entail the implementation of the measures to be adopted in the cfp.
in writing. − against. the report forms part of the reform package of the common fisheries policy, released last year and which is in full debate in the fisheries committee now. it covers the com's general overview of what it proposes in the cfp reform. the danger, and a bad precedent for the rest of the reform, is a call for the subsidisation of construction and modernisation of fishing vessels. there were many amendments to this effect which were defeated but in the salavrakos report, one such amendment was adopted. most groups share our wish to eliminate this paragraph. as the reference to subsidies for vessels was not eliminated, we voted against.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the basis of the statements by the council and the commission on the political situation in romania. i would like to announce to you that we are pleased to have in the gallery mr valeriu ștefan zgonea, president of the chamber of deputies of romania, and also mr dan şova, minister responsible for relations with parliament in his country. welcome these two distinguished guests to this important debate. mr mavroyiannis, i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you and to thank the presidency for the hospitality which the administration and the parliament of cyprus have shown over the past three days on the occasion of the first interparliamentary conference on common foreign and security policy and common security and defence policy which we have held in paphos. it was an extraordinarily interesting conference, which opened up a situation that had been blocked for too long, and i have to say that the participation and the work of our cypriot hosts have been decisive for the success of this event.
mr president, i spoke this morning in the debate on the state of the union to point out that the european union is in the worst crisis in its entire history; and that crisis is not only financial or economic, no, it also affects confidence between the member states, because one aspect of the crisis is that the community method has been replaced by an intergovernmental method in which some governments, as in orwell's farm, are more equal than others. there is therefore a lack of confidence between member states and between public opinion in the member states. that is why it is good that this parliament is debating this issue: because it affects the role of the european parliament, which must deal with citizenship, fundamental rights and the quality of democratic standards, but must ensure that the commission ensures that those standards are met with equality and without any double standards. as far as the facts are concerned, it seems clear that a referendum has taken place which had been initiated by a solid parliamentary majority. the constitutional court has validated the holding of the referendum, and the results have not been effective, despite being very eloquent, due to the fact that the quorum legally required was not reached. the fact is that a large majority of romanian citizens have rejected the continuation of president băsescu's term of office. the romanian government must therefore be prepared to enter into dialogue with the commission, and cooperate with the commission in clarifying all the facts which may be relevant to this debate. but it is also important that there should not be the slightest suspicion of duplicity, either when it comes to corruption between member states, or when it comes to the admission to the free movement of persons that the schengen area entails, when it has the support and backing of this parliament, so repeatedly expressed in favour of romania and bulgaria, or in any other field, or when it comes to verifying compliance with the copenhagen criteria. because it must be remembered that these copenhagen criteria are not only criteria for accession to the european union but also for being on an equal footing with all the others, and thus deserving the continued respect of all the others.
mrs macovei has already intervened in this debate and therefore has no right to put a question under the 'blue card' procedure, just as the person who put such a question does not take the floor. so, let's be clear, so that everyone abides by the rules of operation of our house. many colleagues have asked to speak and we are considerably behind schedule.
firstly, the rule is that the president, as you know, manages the functioning of the house. so, both in terms of the incidental requests for the use of the word (catch the eye) and in terms of the blue card procedure, we are functioning as we are functioning. the 'blue card' procedure does not allow the intervener to take part in the remainder of the debate, nor does it allow the intervener to intervene again following an incidental request to use the word (catch the eye), at any time. i therefore think it is very important that you, who are a fine jurist, should also read rule 149 (8) of our rules of procedure to see what it says exactly: 'the president may grant the floor' and therefore not grant it, on the basis of that practice which i have explained to all of you, which i am not explaining for this debate: i am explaining it in general terms, so that you know that the one who uses the 'blue card' does not intervene later, and that the one who intervenes does not use the 'blue card', because otherwise there might be a case where the same member would speak five times when there are others who, as now, are left without speaking for a long time. interventions under the catch-the-eye procedure
mr president, the fear of the crisis has led to the disruption of interbank credit, the contagion between public and private debt and the fragmentation of the internal market. this has led to a deterioration in the situation of the most vulnerable countries, the stability of the euro area and economic activity. we must create the trust necessary for capital to flow where there is a need. the banking union must achieve this by creating a level playing field for all financial institutions in the internal market, ensuring the smooth transmission of monetary policy and avoiding moral hazard, allowing direct recapitalisation of financial institutions and protecting taxpayer depositors and european citizens. the new package must be made by co-decision and must not be limited to establishing the european central bank as a common supervisory authority but, as already stated in the first supervisory package, it must have a european deposit guarantee scheme and european resolution and crisis management mechanisms.
mr president, first of all, i think it is fair to congratulate commissioner barnier on his great work and the great passion he is putting into this project. we are once again at a decisive moment for the euro. there's no time to delay now. we must move towards a genuine economic and monetary union. in short, a genuine political union. there's no going back. we all agree that a fundamental and key preliminary step to this political union is banking union. a banking union based on three pillars. a single supervisor, to supervise all the banks in the euro area, but more important than that is its entry into force; we need it to come into force as soon as possible. a second pillar based on a common deposit guarantee fund. and a third pillar is a banking crisis resolution mechanism. we also need to have the possibility of recapitalising directly the banks that need it to break, as commissioner barnier has said, the vicious circle between bank debt and sovereign debt, and finally overcome the debt crisis. this is serious. the euro is irreversible. the spanish government has made a proposal, an ambitious proposal, in this respect. this is the result of the spanish government's commitment to europe and the euro.
in writing. last week the union, through the european central bank, had to overcome a lethal match ball. in the short term, unlimited sovereign debt must be subscribed to save the euro and overcome the unjust financial instability of some countries to the advantage of others, but in the medium and long term, the baton and the rhythm of the out-of-tune european orchestra must be changed. instead of cutting back on established duties, we must be radical against speculators, tax havens and profits for unproductive companies. more union and political decision. i welcome the commitment of some member states to income equalization, but this should not prevent the countries with the healthiest finances, which benefit from borrowing money, from moving their own economies and those of other neighbours and partners in the european joint venture. and, to quote asturias, my home constituency, yesterday a leading french newspaper asked on its front page whether the closed coal mines should not be reopened. let us consider very carefully whether it would not be better not to close the ones that are still open, which provide energy and social security. as a former tennis player, i know that after you've won a match ball, the next rest is just as important, or even more important.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, allow me to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr kariņš, and all those other rapporteurs who, together with him, have decided to continue the negotiations, which mr kariņš has so well described to us in the trilogues, full of difficulties. i would say that it is thanks to that effort and determination that we have today a mechanism which, for the first time, is going to allow an exchange of information and communication between the member states and the european commission in relation to intergovernmental agreements on energy which are being carried out in those member states. i believe that this is to promote permanent knowledge of the supply map or of the energy supply networks and is therefore very positive for the better management of the energy supply in the european union. with this regulation, if i had to use a simile, i would say that we are paving the way for the development of the internal energy market to proceed more rapidly. if we were to waste that opportunity today and not start paving the way, as some political groups in this house are claiming, we would simply be missing a golden opportunity. we would find ourselves, in time, in the same situation as today, but much later. i therefore hope that there will be a great deal of parliamentary support for this proposal tomorrow. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the rapporteurs for their contribution.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, two legislative proposals make up the so-called 'quality package' presented in december 2010: one on quality schemes for agricultural products, covering mainly the regulation of geographical indications and other voluntary schemes, and another amending the single cmo in the articles relating to the marketing standards to be met by agricultural products for sale in the european union. on the latter, the council has been unable to agree on a full negotiating mandate, so we have not even been able to discuss the position adopted by the committee on agriculture and rural development over a year ago, a position which our colleague mr dantin has now incorporated into his report on the single cmo. i hope that this wider context will make negotiation possible. the three-way dialogue on the proposal for a regulation before us today was concluded with an agreement on 20 june, an agreement which we hope will be ratified by this house. it is the second agricultural expenditure, after the 'milk package', to be adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure, and it has been a good turnaround for the important negotiations which await us on the reform of the common agricultural policy. the purpose of the geographical indications system is to protect names which identify a product as originating in a territory to which, by reason of its origin or method of production, the quality, reputation or other characteristics which distinguish and enhance it can be attributed. it is certainly a potential economic opportunity for farmers and food producers, very beneficial for the rural economy, but it is above all a system of registration and protection of intellectual property, a system in force since 1992 and which is already part of the hallmarks of european agriculture. since then, the registered names of products have been protected in a uniform and harmonised manner throughout the union. the success of the system is evidenced by the fact that since its introduction, there has been a steady increase in registered products. the commission proposal was not as ambitious as might have been expected following the broad lines set out in its green paper. however, it must be acknowledged that the simplification, harmonisation and regulatory coherence needed by the system has been addressed. strengthening and simplifying quality systems is an objective which the commission took very much into account in its proposals. i would like to highlight other improvements, such as the reinforcement of control rules. each member state is a market, not only for its own products with a designation of origin or a pgi, but also for those from other member states. all of them should ensure correct use and effective protection of all indications. the community logos will now be compulsory. this is essential to correct consumers' ignorance of the geographical indication system. the scheme for traditional specialities guaranteed is not changed as radically as was originally proposed. a transitional period of permanence for non-reserved names of the egts is established, a simplified system is introduced and 30 years are established for the use of the term 'traditional'. a quality system for mountain products is being set up, as this parliament wanted, and the commission will develop its operation and details, while ensuring that it is community-wide and uniform. i take this opportunity, mr commissioner, to ask you a question which has been put to me on more than one occasion since we concluded the agreement: when do you think this quality label will be ready to operate? the role of producer groups is certainly being strengthened and recognised beyond the initial proposal, although not as much as the committee on agriculture and rural development would have wished. the members of this house know that every effort has been made to ensure that the final agreement gives them an active role in reorienting production towards the market, as was agreed for producers of those products with 'designation of origin' or 'pgi' on the milk package. it has not been possible in this regulation. the council's opposition to accepting here what it has already approved in relation to the dairy sector has been insurmountable. for our part, almost all the political groups have proceeded constructively in adopting the agreement we have now reached.
mr president, we must congratulate the rapporteur, mrs iratxe garcía, on her work and congratulate her on the agreement reached between parliament and the council of ministers. it is a pity that the council is not with us tonight. the new quality scheme for agricultural products means that the system is being simplified and the existing authorization procedures are being streamlined, and that is good news. the inclusion of the obligation to use the community logo for protected designations of origin and geographical indications is also a good thing, because it makes it possible to improve the visibility of european products. i also think it is remarkable that the provisions for the protection of quality claims are strengthened in bilateral agreements with third countries and that a legal basis is created to defend the european union logo in those third countries, because i sincerely believe that the protection of european products in third countries must be an indispensable objective. it is a pity that this package has been left a little bit unfinished during the negotiations and a pity - i say it again - that the council is not here to hear it, because the original quality package proposed by the commission has been somewhat forgotten and the trade standards and the management of supply by quality designations of origin have been torn out of the agreement and, as i say, left it a little bit empty. i think it is regrettable that the council has shown a lack of interest in these two matters, refusing to listen to parliament's positions, which are reasonable. the management of supply by designations of origin should have been defended, and will certainly be defended, in the single cmo.
member of the commission. - mr president, i am pleased to see that this proposal has received very clear support in the debate. i hope that parliament will adopt the agreement we have reached by discussing certain aspects of the reform of the common agricultural policy. i think it would be a pity to block the decision on this 'quality' package and to delay it because of points which can be discussed and clarified during the reform of the cap. many of you have pointed out that the discussion on quality control of volumes which took place did not lead to an agreement between the council and parliament. i am open to continuing this discussion with you and with the council in the context of the reform of the common agricultural policy, to determine how monitoring of volumes can have a positive impact on quality, and i am prepared to take this into account where appropriate. i believe that this legislative proposal, if adopted, will create a more positive framework to encourage producers to register their products and to better highlight the quality of agri-food products on the market in the european union. the advantage of this regulation, to answer mr tabajdi - who is unfortunately no longer here - is that once it comes into force all the member states will have to apply the same system of labelling and presentation of products. this will make it easier for european consumers, everywhere in all member states, to identify quality products that fall into the same category. some of you have spoken of the potential for exporting quality products. it is true that the union is one of the world's leading exporters of agri-food products, but unlike other partners in the world, such as the united states, which mainly exports raw materials, we mainly export value-added products with quality products. the regulation we are about to adopt will facilitate negotiations with our international partners for the recognition of this system of geographical indications outside the european union and thus for the legal protection of these products on external markets. this will not only help us to promote quality better outside the union, but also to protect our quality products against counterfeits still on the market. it is true that these counterfeits are proof that european products are appreciated by consumers outside the union, but we now need the legal framework to protect our producers from these counterfeits. the european commission intends to present a legislative proposal for the promotion of agri-food products on the european market and beyond. it intends to actively promote quality labels so that they are recognised by the european consumer. we will invest money to promote the logo we have created under this regulation, so that european consumers can better identify quality products on the market. you have asked the commission to submit reports on local and island products. i can assure you that the commission has already started to assess the quality potential of local products and products from short-distance marketing. the same work is done for mountain products. it will also be made for products from the islands. and, from the end of this year, the commission will present a report accompanied, if necessary, by legislative proposals for the registration of these quality labels. so i can assure you that this is our intention and we have already started work. i want to thank you again for your support of this legislative proposal. i hope that it will be put to a vote tomorrow.
the rapporteur, mr president, as some colleagues have already said in this debate, i regret that the green group/european free alliance is taking this opportunity to table an amendment, which i recommend the other groups reject. i agree with the content of the agreement, but the agreements are respected. after the work of these months, i do not think anyone will doubt my support and that of many members of the committee on agriculture and rural development for supply management by producer groups. the council does not believe, even though it is not here, that this objective will be forgotten; it will be taken up again in the context of the reform of the cap, and this time in a broader sense than in relation to quality products. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank my assistant for his invaluable help, the technical cooperation of the commission secretariat, and the work, the good atmosphere and the willingness of all the alternative rapporteurs from the groups with whom we have been able to work throughout the year. i would like to conclude by recalling the uniqueness and importance of our system of geographical indications. the total turnover of products with designation of origin and pgi is estimated at some eur 15 billion, about 2.5% of the union's food consumption expenditure. this system must be kept under review to improve its visibility to the european consumer and its ability to attract producers and traders so that the market rewards their efforts.
member of the commission. − mr president, dear colleagues, first of all, allow me to thank the rapporteurs, mr lange and mr leichtfried for the work they did on these files. i would also like to thank you for the opportunity to clarify outstanding issues regarding the adoption of the bilateral safeguard regulations in the context of the agreements with colombia and peru and with central america. as you know, these agreements were signed in june, and parliament will soon take a decision on them via an assent procedure. but before i go on to explain the importance of adopting these safeguard regulations, let me first once again underline the significance of these agreements for the eu and for these two latin american regions. these agreements, between the eu and colombia and peru, and between the eu and central america, will fundamentally change and upgrade the relationship between the eu and these two regions. on the trade side, the agreements aim at opening markets for goods, services, government procurement and investment. tariffs in industrial and fisheries products will be fully eliminated on both sides, while trade in agricultural products will be considerably enhanced by substantial tariff concessions. in addition, the agreements will establish a set of predictable and enforceable trade rules which in many instances go further than the commitments taken in the framework of the wto. in short, together with your report, these agreements will give us an improved, stable, predictable and enforceable set of trading conditions under which economic operators from the eu, colombia, peru and central america will be able to take full advantage of the emerging complementarities between our respective economies. beyond pure trade flows, let me remind you that these agreements will also improve far-reaching provisions guaranteeing the protection of human rights as well as commitments on labour rights and environmental protection and will foster the promotion of sustainable development. let me now move to the specific question of the adoption of the bilateral safeguard regulations. the objective of these regulations is to provide a safety net for the union’s industry in case the tariff liberalisation results in an injurious surge of imports. we need them in order to implement the safeguard provisions of the agreements. the commission welcomes the principle adopted by the rapporteurs when examining the commission proposal and drafting the amendments, namely of following the model of korea as closely as the specificities of the agreements allow. there is also a consensus that the implementing regulations cannot be in conflict with the commitments undertaken in the agreements and wto provisions. here it is important not to lose focus. this parliamentary debate on the safeguard regulations is very important, but it should not serve as a framework to re-open questions that have already been addressed, such as the need to make these agreements conditional on respect for human and social rights. as you know, these issues are already covered by the agreements, and in its june 2012 resolution, parliament already clearly expressed the political line to follow and the need for colombia and peru to present a roadmap on human labour and environmental rights. the commission has taken due note of this resolution and is actively working with these countries on it. to conclude, let me express my wish that the european parliament, the council and the commission will enjoy good cooperation in the trialogues that will soon begin so that all the conditions will soon be met for parliament to take a decision on these agreements.
the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development adopted a number of amendments. - mr president, commissioner, on the basis of the fact that, in my view, the agreements with peru, colombia and central america are extremely damaging to european banana producers, and especially to the canary islands, and that we now have only the margin for economic compensation via posei, which i hope will be achieved, i must express my satisfaction that these reports have taken up many of our proposals, which i am grateful for. the negotiated safeguard clauses have been improved and the banana stabilization mechanism has been strengthened. there will be greater transparency and thorough monitoring of banana imports into the european union with prior surveillance measures. i think it is a fundamental point that the commission is also required to submit an annual report on the operation of the clause, which should include an examination of the development of banana imports and their impact on european production. all these elements are very positive. the european banana growers, who are also from the outermost regions - all of them - need help in these difficult times. there's still a long way to go, but this is a very important step.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the foreseeable approval of the amendments to the safeguard clause and the stabilization mechanism for bananas is a fundamental step forward for the approval by this parliament of the agreements with central america and colombia and peru. these agreements are key to the future of the european union. these clauses, together with the progress made by colombia, as acknowledged in the political resolution adopted by this house on 13 june, and together with the support of the central american states and peru for this regulation, must be the final backbone for the ratification of these agreements. these clauses allow our producers to gradually adapt to a free trade framework which benefits us all. at a time when the united states and asian countries are signing free trade agreements with american states, such as cafta or the us agreements with colombia and peru respectively, we cannot allow the world's leading trading power, the european union, to continue to miss opportunities. in this respect, i share the concern of the european business community at the delay in the entry into force of these agreements.
mr president, the trade agreement with central america, colombia and peru is an important agreement and the purpose of the safeguard clause - with the amendments we have tabled - is to make it easy, to make it flexible and to give guarantees. we have tabled amendments to protect european production in accordance with the treaties and to establish safety mechanisms for both european production and production in the countries where the agreement applies. the protection of the outermost regions is necessary because they are not diversified crops, because of the economic factor, because they affect a large number of jobs - more than 10 000 direct jobs and 35 000 000 indirect jobs in spain, in a population that is severely affected by unemployment - and because of their specific nature. for example, the banana of the canary islands has a great specificity in agriculture, culture and gastronomy. but it is also necessary where the agreement is to be applied - in central america, colombia and peru - because trade is fundamental to development and development means labour rights, sustainability and benefits for the producer.
i would like to thank mr häfner for the report we are debating today and which we will be voting on later. if we look in the democracy textbooks or the studies, we find many different definitions of what democracy is. but at the beginning of the 21st century, democracy is above all a regime of public opinion and a regime of transparency. rulers are not only accountable to citizens but also have to answer to citizens for what they do. in order for parliament to be able to carry out its main functions, which are to legislate and control the rulers, it needs information and it needs transparency. only in this way can parliament fulfil its role as the representative of the citizens. the agreement we are discussing today has three important points which i would like to stress: it increases the dignity of members, since we can access that information on parliament's own premises; it broadens the categories of members who can access that information, since it can be done by the rapporteurs, the alternate rapporteurs and the members of the committees concerned; and, finally, it reduces the field of classified information for which the member needs some kind of authorization. so it is a step forward, it is a positive step. it is not enough to say that the european union is not prepared to accept the new treaty, but it is also necessary to say that the european union is not prepared to accept the new treaty. i also thank those who initially negotiated on behalf of parliament: mrs harms, mrs wallis, mr lehne and mr swoboda. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue card question. well, actually, what this agreement does is limit the scope of classified information; not limit it as a whole, but allow members to access, without any security clearance, this information. of course, public information must be regulated in a way that is more open to parliament than strictly private information, where respect for the fundamental rights of individuals must be linked to parliament's access to such information.
mr president, the rapporteur's work is very good, but i would like to take this opportunity to say here, in this context, that our prose is very confusing, as anyone who has been acquainted with european legislation can tell. we have forgotten what von pufendorf taught, that general laws should be few and their meaning understood correctly. the commission has therefore decided to amend the proposal. and montesquieu always insisted that legal language should be precise and concise. we must avoid esoteric jargon, full of neologisms and unjustified language borrowings, because it creates a web of evil where traps are set and arbitrariness is established. we deal with very complex matters in this parliament, but it is our duty to bring them to the attention of the citizens in a comprehensible and accessible way. even the legal profession itself - judges, lawyers - often despairs of our texts. good prose, ladies and gentlemen, is the courtesy of the legislator and a way of showing his respect for the citizen.
the rapporteur. - mr president, although i fully agree with the content of amendment no 103 tabled by the green group/european free alliance, i ask the house to vote against it because it is outside the agreement reached with the council.
mr president, i would like to make a clarification on the oral amendment tabled by the green group/european free alliance. my group normally strictly adheres to the commitments it signs at the negotiating table, and the terms of the negotiations, mr president, say that the european union will take appropriate and responsible action. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the people of syria, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to help the people of syria. therefore, the addition of this word is superfluous because it is already contained in the terms. mr president, my group opposes the inclusion of this word.
in writing. − the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between europe and brazil is a step forward in the exchange of knowledge between our peoples, for mutual benefit, with equity and to facilitate the participation of research entities by cooperating in the exchange of scientists, experts and technicians, legislative exchange on research and sharing experiences in science and technology such as biotechnology, ict, bioinformatics, space, green technologies, health and medicine, human sciences, sustainability of natural resources and environment. through its universities, galicia has an excellent opportunity to continue along this path and open up new opportunities with great common advantages. i voted for it in the spirit of brotherhood.
in writing. − in favour. although not all areas of cooperation represent green priorities, the renewal of the agreement with brazil is consistent with supporting the opening up of participation in eu framework programmes to third countries and enhancing international scientific cooperation.
in writing. − in favour. the agreement does not concern the framework programme of the european atomic energy community (euratom) for nuclear research but the fp7. therefore, the opening-up of the programme to algeria and the enhancement of scientific cooperation may be supported by the greens.
in writing. − in favour. the present draft agreement concerns access to classified information on matters other than those in the area of the common foreign and security policy. however recital 4 and 7, articles 1(b) and 1(c) and a statement attached to the agreement concerning the classified information in this area clarify that so called ‘mixed’ agreements fall under the scope of this agreement and that access to classified information that relates exclusively to the cfsp will be governed by arrangements under an ad hoc council decision or using the 2002 iia. according to the same statement a review of the interinstitutional agreement of 20 november 2002 should begin in the course of 2012.
in writing. - legislate well for citizenship is our aim, to make legislation clear, simple, easy to understand and accessible to all and respecting subsidiarity. the rapporteur had an excellent opportunity to include the capacities of the member states' co-official parliaments with co-legislative powers and forgot the important role they also play in the legislation and implementation of european standards, which often present difficulties of interpretation and application. that is why i am voting against this.
in writing. − against. the report overemphasises the role of impact assessment and the use of the new impact assessment directorate.
in writing. − the construction of an atlantic policy is essential to take advantage of the different approaches and differences of this geographical area of europe to put at the service of the citizen a better use of resources, both maritime and terrestrial. 60% of europe's coastal population resides on the atlantic coast, divided up into sub-state entities with political autonomy. the macro-regional strategy proposed in this report is therefore the appropriate instrument for achieving an atlantic area which will allow greater accessibility to the political peripheries (for example, through integrated transport policies). the trans-european transport network did not include ports such as vigo in galicia or brest in brittany, making it clear that its approach is not transatlantic. this atlantic strategy must be given a boost in order to create jobs and economic recovery along the entire atlantic coast of europe. that is why i am voting in favour and congratulating the rapporteur.
in writing. − in favour. with regard to sustainability, the motion for a resolution calls for vigorous action to safeguard the ecological balance and biodiversity of the atlantic and reduce the carbon footprint in that area; the establishment of specific recommendations concerning vessels, with a view to promoting the inclusion of propulsion systems with low carbon emissions; the promotion of socially, economically and environmentally sustainable forms of tourism.
in writing. − in favour. it will apply on 1 january 2016. it is necessary to give more time for further negotiations to reach an agreement on the comprehensive epas, in order to avoid the risk that a number of acp countries which still have strong development needs and substantial levels of poverty will have significantly reduced market access to the eu.
in writing. - the matter presents many difficulties; my vote in favour of the majority position of the inta committee is because it is an intermediate position within the very delicate conflict of interests involved in this matter. however, the 2016 date should be revised if appropriate.
in writing. − against. two key amendments, key for us, were rejected. number 4 (a member state must inform the commission and other member states when it enters into negotiations with a third country) and number 5 (the commission shall have the right to participate as an observer in negotiations between a member state and a third country).
in writing. − against. unfortunately, in their desire to achieve a first reading agreement at any price, the other groups sacrificed too much during the negotiations. most importantly, the committee on agriculture report contained a strong commitment to supply management of quality products by producer organisations, similar to what was agreed for certain dairy products on the milk package. the council refused to compromise at all on this issue, and as a result the ep negotiators consented to removal of this provision in return for a meaningless ‘political statement’ that the issue would be considered in cap reform. also, the trialogue agreement allows a ‘fast track’ procedure for third country products to be marketed in the eu with quality marks, without going through an equivalent legislative procedure. as we had also failed to immediately achieve the ‘local farming and direct sales’ label, and given the disturbing precedent that this negotiation sets for future committee on agriculture codecision negotiations (with the council refusing to compromise on essential points of policy for the ep), we signalled our opposition to a first reading agreement, preferring to go for second reading.
in writing. − in favour of the amended proposal (the final vote on the legislative resolution was postponed). what did the greens get? good things: the economic affairs committee report voted on included our requests concerning what counts as a social enterprise and the ability to invest outside the eu as well as enhanced reporting on the social impact of eusef investments. we also obtained an opening to retail funds via an amendment to the ucits directive (governing retail investment funds) allowing a limited amount of such funds to be invested in eusefs (plus a review of further measures to boost retail investment in this sector). less good things: the extensive text we had proposed setting out criteria for assessing social impact (based on other eu assessments related to the social economy) and requiring the european supervisor (esma) to provide harmonisation was reduced to a more general set of criteria (although this was still much better than the original proposal) and the reporting requirements for non-social enterprise investments were similarly watered down. overall the report adopted was a good one from the green perspective.
in writing. − in favour (of the amended proposal). the final vote was postponed at request of the rapporteur. our key points – which found large support – were the exclusion from the eu label venture capital funds that are either domiciled in tax havens or that invest in companies established in tax havens as well as the exclusion of financial service providers from benefiting from venture investments. furthermore, a light depositary regime (notary safeguards) was included, together with a recital on orienting investments towards the ecological transformation of the economy. the economic affairs committee position also included enhanced powers for the eu financial supervisor (esma) tasked with overseeing the implementation of the regulation.
in writing. − in favour. it is rather unlikely that the safeguard clause will ever be applied. nevertheless, the report is an occasion to bring into the discussion aspects other than rises and declines in export/import data. greens followed the rapporteur in his call for a closer look not only at economic implications of the foreseen trade liberalisation but also the implementation of environmental and social aspects. the respect of international conventions in these areas should be fully monitored and reported. to this end, trade unions, ngos, the european parliament and concerned civil society organisations should be consulted. furthermore, an explicit reference to the outermost regions should be introduced. though dg trade was not happy with a good number of the amendments proposed (39 in the international trade committee, plus the agriculture committee opinion), which they considered as outside their realm of competence (such as social and environmental data!!), and though dg trade carried out extensive lobbying ahead of the international trade committee vote, a good number of those amendments passed. the current european parliament proposal differs therefore quite substantively from the commission proposal.
in writing. − in favour of the amended proposal. the vote on the legislative resolution was postponed. it is rather unlikely that the safeguard clause will ever be applied. nevertheless, the report is an occasion to bring into the discussion aspects other than rises and declines in export/import data. greens followed the rapporteur in his call for a closer look not only at economic implications of the foreseen trade liberalisation but also the implementation of environmental and social aspects. the respect for international conventions in these areas should be fully monitored and reported. to this end, trade unions, ngos, the european parliament and concerned civil society organisations should be consulted. furthermore, an explicit reference to the outermost regions should be introduced. though dg trade was not happy with a good number of the amendments proposed (45 in the international trade committee, plus the agriculture committee opinion), which they considered as outside their realm of competence (such as social and environmental data!!), and though dg trade carried out extensive lobbying ahead of the international trade committee vote, a good number of those amendments passed. the current european parliament proposal differs therefore quite substantively from the commission proposal.
in writing. − abstention. the legal affairs committee report extended the scope of the directive to rights related to copyright which opened up the possibility for sound recordings and audio heritage institutions to be included in the directive. public service broadcasting organisations and publishers were also included, and public-private partnership agreements and commercial use of orphan works were explicitly permitted. all in all positive and necessary improvements of the commission’s proposal. unfortunately many, if not all, improvements in the legal affairs committee were watered down, made unworkable or unclear in first reading agreement negotiations. most notably unclear is article 1(2c) in the portal paragraph defining the subject matter and scope of the directive by stating as a fact that ‘this directive does not interfere with any arrangements concerning the management of rights at national level’ which seems to exclude them from the scope of the directive since managing rights in practice is the same as permitting uses, including assessing orphan status and sharing registered search results.
in writing. - i am voting in favour because the matter was widely supported by the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament. however, a more ambitious future directive would be needed to ensure a more appropriate treatment of these orphan works and to allow for better collaboration between public and private entities. these orphan works represent an important cultural asset.
in writing. - this report has shown that it is wrong to use trade measures as emergency humanitarian aid, both from the point of view of convergence with wto rules and from the point of view of the effectiveness that can be obtained by following the parliamentary procedure. the eu already has the appropriate tools to provide international aid in the event of disasters. indeed, most of the exporters of textiles to the eu in pakistan are large companies with a turnover of more than eur 200 million, which would be the main beneficiaries of these trade preferences. there is no direct link between these major beneficiaries of the agreement and those affected by the floods. these measures also undermine the interests of the entire european textile sector, which is already severely affected by other factors, including the severe economic crisis we are experiencing. we must be sensitive to the delicate situation of our textile industries, which are also mostly located in the southern european countries, where the economic crisis is wreaking havoc on employment.
in writing. − the report was referred back to committee at the sitting of 10 may 2011 (rule 57(2)). amendment 47, adopted, replaces the amendment adopted in that sitting. we abstained in the amended proposal, and voted in favour of the final legislative resolution.
in writing. − in favour. unfortunately, however, we did not manage to include an oral amendment asking to call also the member states, and not only the eu, to take appropriate responsible measures regarding the possible influx of refugees.
in writing. − in favour. among other things, the resolution takes the view that russia, as a member of the council of europe and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe, should meet the obligations it has signed up to, and points out that recent developments have moved in the opposite direction to the reforms necessary to improve democratic standards, the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary in russia.
in writing. − in favour. we reiterate that, in moments of crisis, the community method must always prevail, because this is the only way of ensuring that the union is able to come out of the crisis stronger. we urge political leaders to encourage democratic legitimacy in all european union affairs. we stress the need to enhance democratic legitimacy with regard to the proposed banking union and single supervisory mechanism by fully involving parliament as co-legislator. we stress the need to give due consideration to the potential mutual spill-over effects of the banking union in the euro area for non-euro-area members. we stress that we will consider proposals on the banking union as a package in the event that they amend legislation adopted through the codecision procedure. we stress that any major change in supervision, including shifts to other institutions, must be accompanied by an equivalent increase in transparency and accountability of such institutions vis-à-vis parliament, which must have full questioning rights and full powers in relation to appointment and budgetary procedures.
mr president, i would just like to say a few words to support what some of my colleagues have said, especially my colleague mr lochbihler. neither the government nor the political opposition have taken a clear public stance in defence of the victims. we must thus express our appreciation for those burmese citizens who have raised their voice in support of the muslim minority and the pluralistic society. it is imperative that the burmese authorities stop arbitrary arrests of rohingya, provide information about the whereabouts of hundreds of people detained since security operations in rakhine state began in june, and immediately release those arbitrarily arrested. finally, there is also an urgent need for the government of burma to provide the un agencies and humanitarian non-governmental organisations unhindered access to all areas of rakhine state and guarantee unrestricted access to humanitarian aid for all affected populations.
opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. mr president, commissioner, i join the demonstrations of several members who have spoken in favour of a consistent budget, which will help to get out of the crisis, create jobs and solve the daily problems of european citizens. but as rapporteur for the committee on constitutional affairs, i want to emphasize those matters for which we have been most interested in obtaining funding. all of them concern citizens: the launch of the european citizens' initiative, the celebration of the european year of citizenship in 2013 and also the communication to citizens. we must bear in mind that 2014 is an election year and that european citizens will once again express their position on the future they want for europe. we believe that all communication actions should be strategic, not just for constitutional matters, but for the union as a whole.
the european parliament's position on the 2013 budget will be voted on tomorrow by this plenary, and it is expected that it will be supported by a large majority. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate mr la via as rapporteur for this budget on the excellent work he has done. i want the council to know that this position is for the european socialists an absolute minimum, because we are convinced that more can be done. we believe that there is room in the budget for manoeuvre and that more resources can be allocated to many european programmes. in january, the european council made a statement in which it stressed the need to invest in growth and employment. in june, at another european council, they signed a pact for growth and jobs, but they have done nothing to put it into practice. we believe that the budget can help to do that and that is why we have tabled amendments to support all those programmes which are linked to our priorities: smes, training, youth, research and innovation through the seventh framework programme, and we have not forgotten development cooperation either. what measures has the council taken? what budgetary measures have you taken to ensure that these programmes are carried out? not one. not only have they not proposed anything, they have also proposed a cut of a billion euros. they continue to impose austerity as the only recipe for getting out of the crisis. we told them they were wrong and they ignored us. unfortunately, today the facts are proving us right. they are not reassuring the markets; the macroeconomic data are not improving; the deficit figures are still soaring and, what is worse, the citizens are having a very bad time, and many countries, because of this austerity, no longer have a welfare state to help them survive the crisis. how long before they realize we're going to have to change course? and, ladies and gentlemen of the council, you are still insisting - we have seen it here today - and not only are you cutting commitments for next year, but you are also cutting payments, as you did last year and the year before. mr mavroyiannis, cutting payments means not meeting commitments; it means that you have decided not to pay the bills; it means that many programmes will have to be stopped, such as the erasmus grants; it means that many of our municipalities and regions will not be given back the money they have already invested in projects financed by european funds. and this parliament will not allow it. we have a very firm and clear position on this: if you do not put in the money to prevent what is happening this year with the payments from happening again, the european parliament will say no to your budget proposal.
mr president, the advantage of speaking in the last places is that one can hear the previous speeches. there is a problem here, but it is a political problem: there are some groups in this house and personalities who do not understand or share the figure of european added value, such as the way in which the union budget has an aggregate effect and a very positive effect on the union's economy. i am very pleased that there are some members who do not want to do that and who are proposing to reduce the budget by 10 or 20%, or, why not, even to end up without the community budget. it would be the best savings you could have... what concerns me is that the council does not fully understand what european added value means either. shall i tell you why that is? it is because the union's budget is managed by the finance ministers, and the union's budget should be discussed by the ministers for european affairs, who have a vision of europe in their heads, and not the finance ministers. this is the problem which has led us to never agree on the budget and will not agree on the next financial perspective. the 2013 budget is exemplary in this respect: we have been given commitment appropriations to carry out community programmes and we are denied the possibility of having sufficient payment appropriations to carry them out. in this way we only increase the frustration of european citizens and give the impression that those who think the union budget is useless are right. it is not, it is the most useful instrument we have in europe for growth and employment.
member of the commission. − mr president, i should start by thanking charles goerens for an excellent report and also for the debate we have started here. it definitely requires far more attention. i am also grateful to the committee on development, in which we have the chance always to exchange views on development policy. development cooperation is definitely one of the most complicated policies because it revolves not only around the development support that we give, but also around our action in other policy areas. it is also true, as mr boulland said, that we should see development policy not only from the perspective of solidarity. solidarity is definitely part of our approach, but it is also an investment in the security and the well-being of our citizens. i believe it is very much a cross-cutting policy that strengthens the union if properly addressed and weakens the union if not properly addressed. i believe that there have been substantial changes in the world for the better. we now have a chance, in our lifetime, not only to alleviate poverty but also, in many parts of the world, to eradicate it. the eu is a trusted partner because we always keep our promises. sometimes, perhaps, we are slow, but we are honest in our approach, with no second thoughts. we just want to help countries get out of the circle of poverty. in addressing this agenda of change, we really need to work more strategically, and when you work more strategically you definitely need to make some choices. our point of departure is the human rights-based approach, which we do not separate from health policy, education policy or support for growth sectors. it is an over-arching element that we address in all policy elements in a coherent manner. i am very glad that mr goerens’s report looks positively on the movement towards inclusive and sustainable growth, because we can also see what our partners are looking for. they would like fast, immediate growth, and gdp growth of two figures, and if possible three figures, while not always understanding that gdp growth figures do not always result in satisfaction for the funded nation and that the elements of social inclusion and social protection are very important, and that the sustainability issue is also crucial. does it help a country to have high growth, only to find it is devastating the environment? we are trying to build a coherent approach. i believe two issues are crucial here. one is access to sustainable energy. we know that this is crucial not only in the fight against climate change, but also for economic growth. if we are not there, then it will most probably be coal-based power that is used in some parts of the country. the second issue is food security, agriculture and nutrition. what mr berman said is true: if you just take humanitarian aid, you will never have enough money to address matters, because calamities are happening more and more and this has a higher and higher cost. it does not help if you just save people’s lives in a time of calamity – they also need to rebuild their lives. what we have done, together with my colleague kristalina georgieva, with regard to built resilience provides an answer. this is where you can save money and where you can move out, saying that, at a certain stage of development, our support will not be necessary, because the country is strong enough and has built resilience to address its food insecurity. mr goerens touched upon dialogue with the member states, and things have evolved in the development council. it is perhaps not the most important sign, but in may we will hold a whole-day development council under the chairmanship of the high representative, vice-president ashton. although she has a busy agenda, she has agreed to hold a whole-day event. this demonstrates that we have issues to discuss, and she feels confident that the member states will be fully involved. another benchmark is joint programming. i am glad that there is a french initiative to hold an event on joint programming. it is not only a commission-driven process. this is what we are looking for, so that member states feel fully comfortable with the policy. last but not least, international engagement. we sometimes say that we are misunderstood, but i believe now that we have a real historic chance in the mdg process up to 2015 and after. the mdg framework is the most developed and widely-recognised international global framework. that framework really has changed the lives of millions of people, and 2015 is the year in which we conclude the process of the mdgs and, from another point of view, we also start a new framework. i believe the eu should be fully engaged in this major event and consider this the most important year for development cooperation; it is really a landmark year for us. so, for this reason, i believe that organising a european year for development in 2015 could be both timely and appropriate. at eu level it could help catalyse and mobilise the attention both of public opinion and of the decision-makers on development issues, in particular on the post-2015 development framework. i am also pleased to note the support of the committee of the regions and of the president of this house on this issue. the commission is now looking at the implications of the organisation of this european year. we need also to mobilise significant human resources to ensure the full success of such a large-scale campaign. we are looking at it positively, but we need to be absolutely sure that we, as europe, can deliver on this year before we start it. the commission will come back to parliament with detailed proposals, in line with the proper procedure for the designation of a european year. i would also call the attention of this house, as a component of the budgetary authority, to the need to ensure sufficient financial resources in order to secure the successful organisation of such a european year.
i would like to congratulate mr charles goerens on this report, a strong position which lays the foundations for the future of the union's development cooperation policy. it is a report that comes against a backdrop of cuts in official development assistance across europe, the expiry of the deadline for the 2015 millennium development goals, and the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework, in particular the development cooperation instrument. the message that the european parliament will be supporting tomorrow is forceful: times are changing, circumstances are changing, but we europeans, even in difficult times, are committed to solidarity and development, with a cooperation agenda that fits these changes. the house is therefore committed to policies that promote sustainable development, the redistribution of wealth and social justice, and finance that meets global challenges. it also bets that the 70 percent of the world's poor living in middle-income countries will not be denied our support. we therefore call for a negotiated road map for the gradual reduction of official development assistance and for its participation in triangular cooperation agreements to be strongly encouraged; for the differentiation criterion for whether or not to grant our aid not to be based solely on gross national income but also to be able to use other indicators such as existing inequality or vulnerability. we are asking for a lot, mr president, mr commissioner, including that the european union's financial transaction tax be used, among other things, for development cooperation, but we are asking for it sensibly, knowing that the european union's aid is effective, that it has real added value and that it is still needed.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate mr goerens on his excellent report. the agenda for change represents an important road map in redefining development cooperation and in seeking better quality and effectiveness of aid, especially in the light of the changes taking place in the new global order, the emergence of new international actors and the necessary process of fiscal consolidation to which our current economic situation obliges us. we welcome the fact that the commission has made poverty a central element of its policy of differentiation. we regret, however, that gross national product is the key indicator in the implementation of this policy. mr president, 70% of the people living below the poverty line in the world live in middle-income countries. if we want to have a real impact on the reduction of poverty, we must take into account, in addition to the level of wealth, other criteria such as the vulnerability of some of these countries, the lack of internal cohesion or the human development index. many of these countries can also be key actors today through triangular cooperation mechanisms or south-south cooperation, and at the same time be engines of development in the future.
mr president, five weeks ago there was a large demonstration in barcelona. more than one million people demanding that catalonia be the next eu member state is exceptional. this is why the president of catalonia, artur mas, has decided to initiate a political process calling for early catalan elections next month. this process will enable catalans to decide freely, peacefully and democratically if they want to become a new member state of the european union. the will of the catalans is to remain in the european project. we believe in europe, and our objective is not to be an isolated country but to become a new partner in the construction of europe. the example of the agreement on a scottish referendum in 2014 is an enlightening one. i hope that in catalonia a new era for european democracy is being opened. vice-president vidal-quadras’s statements calling for intervention by the spanish armed forces in catalonia are disgraceful. he should resign.
mr president, i am not going to talk about the independence of catalonia, i am going to talk about la gomera, a small island in the canary islands, which this summer suffered a terrible fire that started on 4 august and was not officially extinguished until last september. it is not just garajonay national park, a world heritage site since 1986, that has been affected: almost 11% of the island's surface has been burned and more than four thousand people have had to be evacuated. the damage to the environment, the island's economy and the living conditions of the population, estimated at almost €60 million, is very difficult to repair. so what i want to talk about today is solidarity, european solidarity with a very small but very important part of europe that unites us, european solidarity with la gomera and the gomeros. the spanish government has already requested assistance from the solidarity fund. now it just needs to be put into effect and we all need to help la gomera to get ahead. we are talking about their future, and we are all responsible for that future.
mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to mention the tragic consequences of the heavy rains which have fallen in spain in the south and south-east of the peninsula, specifically in the region of valencia, in murcia and in part of andalusia. on 28 september 2012, torrential rains caused considerable damage to the entire agricultural sector. thousands of hectares of crops were wiped out and many farms were totally ruined. there were also losses in the livestock sector and damage to the municipal road network, public lighting, housing, buildings, industries and businesses, and i would like to stress the difficulties that lorca was already experiencing, a municipality that, as you know, had suffered a tremendous earthquake a year earlier, as had puerto lumbreras. these are two spanish towns and municipalities in the region of murcia, which are all asking for the european union's solidarity in these and other regions in order to move forward.
mr president, the figures show that 85% of jobs are created by smes - as the rapporteur has said - but it must also be said that one in four smes does not exploit the potential of the single market and one in eight does not develop beyond its borders. what can we do? the rapporteur has said it: reducing regulation and the administrative burden, increasing internalisation, developing human capital, erasmus for young people, qualifications, social dialogue - very important for my group - but also very important is access to finance; we have a lot to do here. we must strengthen the public sector, horizon 2020, the cosme programme and cohesion policies, but also, commissioner, we must give smes access to the market, we must give smes access to credit, because they do not have it at the moment. credit must flow where the economy is developing. we therefore call for access to credit for smes to enable them to develop their activities as a fundamental element.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, i think that the european parliament is being unfairly accused of simply proposing an increase in resources in this debate. we're not talking about spending, we're talking about something political. this is a deeply political debate, a debate on expenditure ceilings and policy objectives, and on that part of the common resources - the resources of the whole union - which we must use to finance those political priorities which we have set out in this house as our objectives for the coming years, which are mainly focused on the 2020 strategy for growth and jobs. it seems to me quite normal that the subject of the debate is how to redirect these priorities to scarce financial resources, because we are living in a europe in deep financial crisis, but what is not sensible is that we shoot ourselves in the foot and try to block the only common instrument we have to implement our priorities. the council is going to cut back - we already know that - on the commission's proposal, which is already insufficient. that is why we want to stress to the council and the commission that the fundamental thing is that if we are going to have less money - because in the end the council agreement will lead to cuts - we need the widest possible flexibility. unfortunately, a very small budget with no flexibility will leave this parliament without the possibility of saying yes to the next proposal.
the question of the 'blue card'. you have just wasted the time you had, mr president, in insulting and disqualifying people out of complete ignorance. do you know the spanish constitution? because what vice-president vidal quadras has said is nothing more or less than that what is said in the spanish constitution should apply; the rest are singular personal judgments which are absolutely irrelevant and which i can respect, but which i despise.
mr president, it would not be fair to deny that some progress has been made in this council, but it is also right to say that it has been made in a very slow and slow way, so that even if we make progress, if we do not do so at the right speed, we are moving away from the objectives we are pursuing. i do not think it was a particularly positive summit, and i will tell you why: because of the repetition of the fact that some decisions are taken and re-taken; because of the slowness in implementing some measures and the lack of concrete action; and finally because of the imbalance between a strictly austerity policy and a profoundly social aspect. as regards the reiteration of agreements, it should be noted that, as we approach the 30 summits, it is difficult to distinguish one from the other, and we remember the summit of may 2010 because it is the austerity summit, and the one of june 2012 because it is the growth summit, but the truth is that the austerity summit has developed and the growth summit has not. slow and unrealistic measures: normally, in the conclusions it is said that it is essential to implement quickly the measures agreed at previous summits, but the truth is that, when we look at the conclusions here, there are many expressions such as 'in the next few weeks' or 'work is being done' and the only thing that has really been put in motion at the growth summit is 100 million for a political programme. as regards the imbalance, the fact is that there is no significant social content, no social dialogue, in the council's work and i would point out that there is a risk, for example, of referring the solution to the problems of poverty to the member states. we need a european response for the poor of europe. only then will we legitimize the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is an old principle which has passed from the legal to the political sphere, and that is that of pacta sunt servanda, that is to say, agreements are to be honoured. i am referring to the important measures adopted by the european council in june to solve the crisis that affects us. since the adoption of these agreements, market pressure has eased, with positive reactions to decisions that can break the vicious circle between banks and sovereign debt, to plans to move towards genuine economic and monetary union and to the commitment to defend the euro irreversibly. the european council meeting last week, ladies and gentlemen, has undeniably positive aspects: the conclusions of the progress towards banking union are satisfactory; the agreement between the 27 on the establishment of the banking supervisor is also positive; finally, it is appropriate to entrust the establishment of the banking supervisor to the eurozone's ministers for economic affairs. but i will be allowed to make a critical judgment with the biased interpretations that have been unilaterally made of it. it is not acceptable, ladies and gentlemen, to make particular interpretations which may distort the mandate given to the ministers for economic affairs, nor do we welcome the reporting as agreements of matters which were not even discussed. it is urgent to move towards a single supervisory mechanism, which should cover all financial institutions. a common deposit guarantee scheme and a crisis resolution mechanism are also needed. the survival of the euro is linked to the urgent need to create an effective banking union.
in writing. − in favour. the waiver of immunity of concerns alleged offences related to illegal access to a computer system. martin ehrenhauser was heard by the ep committee on legal affairs, where he stated that he believed that his immunity should be waived.
in writing. it will be impossible to finance existing european policies, the new competences that the member states unanimously transferred to the union with the lisbon treaty, and the commitments made by all european institutions and heads of state and government in the europe 2020 strategy and the growth pact, in particular in the fields of climate, development aid, research, employment and the fight against poverty. the fight against global warming, economic recovery and social cohesion in europe cannot go hand in hand without securing the necessary financial means for the european budget. that is why the european parliament's report voted on today warns the european council against any attempt to cut the next multiannual financial framework. since the european council keeps saying that we need more europe, it is time for the council to turn its words into action!
in writing. − i voted in favour because i believe that the eu must increase its investments in research and competitiveness, smes, infrastructure, research and innovation to deliver on the europe 2020 strategy. this requires a strong community budget coordinated with the member states. europe will only emerge from the current crisis by encouraging investment in growth and jobs and by helping member states to tackle structural problems such as loss of competitiveness, rising unemployment and poverty. and it will not do so by cutting back on policies aimed at economic growth. this is why we need to set priorities. if the council were to decide on cuts it should set out its priorities and which policies should be eliminated.
in writing. − abstention. however, on the positive side, meps have today voted in favour of a common-sense proposal to end parliament’s multi-seat operation, with a view to delivering significant direct savings to the eu budget. the vote is also an expression of frustration with the current situation – whereby parliament is denied a say on its own place of operation, with eu governments retaining sole decision-making power – and the continued failure of the ep to hold a plenary debate. although the two largest political groups want to practise omerta, it is also high time for the ep to end its taboo and debate the issue of a single seat for parliament. the greens have pushed for such a debate for years and will continue to do so through the ep’s conference of presidents. the practice of shifting thousands of people and resources from place to place is not only costly, inefficient, wasteful and environmentally damaging, but also damages the public perception of the eu. the ep has today sent a clear political signal that action can no longer be avoided.
in writing. - amendment 8: vote against to maintain the commitment in budg of all political groups. amendment no 15: i respect the agreement reached on 26 september 2012 between the bureau and the budg committee, which already entailed a reduction of the european parliament's budget by eur 18 300 000.
in writing. − in favour. today's vote sets out the ep's red lines for the forthcoming negotiations on the future eu budget for 2014-20. meps have made clear that they want an eu budget that plays a central role in stimulating economic recovery in europe and in the sustainable transformation of our economy. they have also clearly nailed their colours to the mast in favour of a meaningful own resources system for the eu budget. in order to emerge from the economic crisis, we should be investing more in research, education, green technologies and the sustainable transformation of our energy sector. the eu budget represents a value-for-money way to deliver this. in this context, the calls by some net contributing member states, like the uk, to drastically cut the budget would be totally the wrong approach to take. the commission's proposals fail to reflect the necessary ambition and meps have today called for them to be increased.
in writing. - amendment no 46: i voted in favour of the amendment, but i also disagree with the blunt form in which it is expressed. the personnel policy must be more nuanced in all areas and must generally respond to criteria of efficiency in the use of available resources.
in writing. − in favour. the draft regulation on the procedure for making the vat own resource available is necessary to define the method member states should use to calculate this new resource as well as the procedures for its transfer into the eu budget. at its inception in 1970, the vat-based own resource was designed as a potentially genuine own resource, under the assumption that a continuous process of harmonisation of national vat legislation would eventually render the national vat assessment bases fully harmonised. however, it has gradually been transformed into a complex and opaque statistical device that actually represents another form of gni-based contribution and is transferred from national budgets. the vat-based own resource represents 11.2% of revenue in the 2011 budget. on 29 june 2011 the commission presented its proposals for a new multiannual financial framework 2014 - 2020 jointly with a set of proposals on the reform of the union’s own-resources system.
in writing. - i share the general approach of the programme and believe it is important to alleviate the situation in the affected area. the firms concerned are located in four of sweden's 290 municipalities, with the majority of the staff laid off in lund in southern sweden. the closure of the astrazeneca plant is a heavy burden for lund, and it also affects the entire pharmaceutical sector in sweden. this event causes an imbalance in the region's labour market. unemployment increased in all the municipalities concerned between january 2009 and november 2011: in lund, from 2 467 to 3 025; in umeå, from 3 725 to 4 539; in sodertalje, from 3 100 to 5 555; and in mölndal, from 1 458 to 1 663.
in writing. − in favour. the financial rules, better known as the financial regulation, form the key legislative text on the implementation of the eu budget. this text contains an impressive number of rules and criteria to be respected by the different actors implementing the eu budget. the vote in plenary is a vote on a first reading agreement, so no amendments are tabled. the regime of grants will be shifted from a real-cost based management (inputs) towards a performance-based scheme (outputs). this is expected to simplify the procedural and documentary requirements for the benefit of beneficiaries. the ep managed to put through an important number of amendments going in that direction.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, it is a great pleasure for me to be able to present to this house the commission’s work programme for 2013, which has just been adopted by the college, which is still in session, because this programme is the culmination of an intense political dialogue and very close collaboration between the commission and parliament. we had very good collaboration with the conference of committee chairs. the structural dialogue between the commission and the sectoral committees was much deeper than last year and the debate after the state of the union address, the recent exchange of views between the commission and the conference of committee chairs, and the exchange between the conference of presidents and myself have all been information sources which contributed to the preparation of the commission’s work programme. it was quite clear from all these discussions that this programme has to focus on how the eu can best contribute to what is our most pressing priority: reviving growth and creating jobs. 2013 will indeed be a decisive year in turning europe round to face up to the crisis and to pursue the path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. as we listened to the exchanges this morning, we could all conclude that there is no one silver bullet, and that all levels of society must contribute. but we are at eu level and we have to look at how the eu level can help to show a lead and make sure the result of our action will be a strong record to put before the electorate in 2014. with this in mind, the commission’s priorities are clustered around seven key policy areas. the first covers moving towards a genuine emu. here it is quite clear that a deep and genuine economic union must be based on political, and hence more democratic, union. the second is boosting competitiveness through the single market and industrial policy. the third is building fully integrated networks in telecoms, energy and transport as a prerequisite for competitiveness, jobs and growth. the fourth is growth for jobs: supporting employment services, promoting social inclusion and entry into labour markets, with special measures to help vulnerable groups, notably young people who are faced with a huge unemployment pressure. the fifth is using europe’s resources to compete better. the sixth priority is to provide greater safety and security to all eu citizens and the seventh – last, but not least – strengthening the eu as a global actor, notably to unleash all our potential in trade policy. for each of these seven key policy areas, the work programme sets out clearly the long-term vision and objectives, summarises what is missing and explains how the commission will take up the challenge. honourable members, let me briefly take you through some of the main priorities. the details of building a genuine economic and monetary union are the subject of a deep reflection. as this morning’s debate showed, the discussion will continue but the commission will present shortly its blueprint, which should be a contribution to this debate. it will show how to have an ambitious approach, based on existing institutions to ensure full democratic control. making this happen will be the key priority for next year. this also means modernising the ways that we generate public revenue – at european and at national level. the commission has responded today to the request from those member states who wish to move ahead quickly on a financial transaction tax. large and small member states determined to pioneer a new way to make everybody shoulder their fair share. the commission will therefore continue to push for a strong and competitive financial sector to restore growth and investment in the real economy. i see, for instance, that good progress is already being made on the credit rating agencies file in parliament and in the council. in 2013, we will address shadow banking, and put key indices used in the financial sector on a stronger footing. businesses and home owners cannot be open to manipulation of the interest rates. but we are not starting from scratch. the legislation this house has passed has already transformed the financial sector to a great extent. the european semester is now established as a key pillar of economic governance. but to restore the confidence of citizens and markets we must go further and together. if stability is the basis for sustainable growth and jobs, competitiveness and confidence are the engines. europe’s economy can only survive with a strong and modern industrial base and our companies can only win away if the home field provides an optimal platform. that is why we need a strong single market. we need to fill regulatory gaps. we need to unleash the growth potential in networks and the digital economy. we need to exploit mobility and we need to use cohesion policy as a driver for reform, not just as the safety net. you will have seen the ideas put forward by the commission in its industrial policy flagship and single market acts. building on the progress made in the first phase, we should all pull together to make sure that these actions are developed, agreed and implemented before june 2014. agreement on the package for the multiannual financial framework 201-2020 is critical. it offers the kind of smart investment the eu economy needs and, subject to an agreement being found, we will need to devote a lot of attention and effort next year to the finalisation of sectoral instruments and programming of the next generation of projects. the next year will also see new initiatives in key areas: on access to finance, in particular for smes; on cutting costs in areas like vat; on leveraging investment in strategic sectors from aeronautics to pharmaceuticals; on broadband infrastructure and electronic payments. we also need to give investors long-term certainty and long-term vision about the society they live in. modernising infrastructure in ict, energy and transport is critical to providing this certainty. so too is a fresh look at european air and waste legislation. this is, in particular, why we need a framework for climate and energy policy to 2030. to build the future, europe must build on its youth. youth unemployment is a crisis within the crisis. the human tragedy and the economic loss of leaving a generation on the sidelines is something that we can neither allow, nor afford as a society. while many of the levers are national, there is much that europe can do to invest in its people, to increase mobility between jobs and across borders, to target education and training in the right skills, and to protect the most vulnerable. the european semester is proving a key tool to stimulate job creation and to bring closer a truly european labour market. amongst new proposals will be very practical measures to network national employment services to work together. i hope also that the proposals we are preparing for december of this year on employment packages, especially on youth guarantee, will be one of the priorities for this house. we are a community of values. at a time when our attention is directed at the economy, we must not lose sight of this: our freedoms sustain our prosperity. to grow and create jobs we must continue to safeguard and expand the freedoms of citizens. the eu must also protect its citizens by adapting to new threats and challenges. concrete action next year to fight arms traffic, improve judicial cooperation and protect financial interests through a european public prosecutor will all help to ensure that citizens and companies can exercise their freedoms and rights in security. in 2013, the commission will also continue relentlessly to defend european values and interests around the world. in external trade this can make a huge difference, with the potential for 2 million new jobs in the medium term. possible agreements with partners such as japan and the united states would have a huge impact. europe must continue to show that it is a positive force worldwide. this was very clearly recognised by the nobel prize committee. effective development and humanitarian aid will be directed to those most in need and an active enlargement and neighbourhood policy will continue to make the eu an anchor of peaceful development in our region and beyond. once again, putting the new generation of programmes in place will make a key contribution to this. madam president, honourable members, these are crucial years for europe. the steps we take over the next few years will decide our future path. we must direct our energies to making the most of the rest of this legislature, bringing all key proposals to their conclusion before 2014. the commission is looking forward to working closely with parliament and the member states to move from programme to progress and to take the next decisive concrete steps together towards a stronger, more prosperous and fairer europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr vice-president, in the state of the union address and in other speeches, mr barroso has told us that the employment crisis is a key element in solving the wider economic crisis; he has also told us that the reform agenda will only work if it is fair and equitable, because inequality is unsustainable; and finally he has told us that europe's global competitiveness depends on its social model. i think that these are correct diagnoses, they are correct intentions, but they are only fine words, because between mr barroso's words and the commission's programme of governance there is a practically unbridgeable gulf. let's go over what happened to the 2012 program. more than half of the commission's programme has not been implemented. it has not been fulfilled in such areas as the renewal of the safety and health strategy, workers' rights, the right to physical integrity and freedom of movement for workers. all this affects european citizens, as does the tobacco directive, which we hope will be brought to this parliament quickly. the commission therefore suspends the examination of 2012 and nevertheless disappoints with respect to 2013. where are the measures to combat youth unemployment? what can we expect from the european platform against poverty and social exclusion? where are the commitments on social dialogue? youth unemployment in europe is above 20% and in many countries above 50%. the youth employment guarantee is welcome, but a more aggressive and better coordinated approach is needed. but the worst problem with the work programme is the absence of social and employment issues. the treaties call for the promotion of employment and the guarantee of citizens' lives to be coordinated with social protection and the economy, but the commission has opted for an inflexible strategy on price stability and fiscal discipline, a strategy which is not working and which is, moreover, self-defeating. if the experience we have had teaches us anything, it is that monetary union, without economic and social union, is not sustainable. and that is why we are calling - as the vice-president has also pointed out - for this broader social governance to be included in the framework of the european semester, for the european semester to be seen in a more inclusive way, with social investment linked to the europe 2020 objectives. we must see that economic and monetary union is not an end in itself, it is an instrument for the well-being of the citizens' lives; it is a youth guarantee, therefore a social protocol to guarantee social rights, an active employment policy. finally, we hope for the commission's support in continuing to defend the community method and in avoiding reforms which would damage the position of the european parliament. a final word to stress the need for the european union to commit itself to the food fund for the millions of citizens of the union who are in poverty and who must be looked after by the union, not just by the measures of the governments of the member states or the national administrations.
mr president, the european union, its 27 member states, the commission and this parliament - when it adopted the negotiating directives - have had a commitment to israel since 2005. israel is a partner of the european union, an indispensable player in the peace process, even if we do not like the decisions taken in the settlements and even if some of the decisions taken by that government are in direct contradiction with the rights of the palestinian people. after the elections in the united states, mr president, there will be a relaunch of the peace process negotiations, and it is clear that the european union cannot remain outside this process. the european union and this parliament must therefore be consistent with their commitments and approve this agreement. the amendment to the legislative resolution is a flagrant breach of the rules of procedure of this parliament, because rule 83 clearly states that no amendments may be tabled to the legislative resolution. parliament has the right to express its views through non-legislative resolutions and, in any case, the acceptance of this amendment constitutes and sets a serious precedent, it is liable to be appealed, if this decision is not corrected, to the court of justice and, of course, mr president, it leaves the horses to the feet to which this amendment has been presented and accepted.
in writing. − in favour. we have approved that any transfer from cohesion policy to those to-be-defined financial instruments should be duly justified and well controlled, as provided for by regulation (eu) no 423/2012 and that prior to operating any such transfer as specified in paragraph 2 the budgetary authority be informed by the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge for the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2010, as i had fulfilled the requirements laid down by parliament. these requirements were proposed by parliament on 10 may of the same year because of the possible existence of a conflict of interest, especially the 'revolving door' case. in july this year, efsa implemented new rules for the monitoring and control of conflicts of interest in line with international rules in this field. i believe that parliament's demands have been met and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − in favour. on 10 may 2012, the european parliament postponed its decision on the discharge and closure of the accounts of the european food safety authority (the authority) for the financial year 2010. the authority, then, provided extensive replies to the discharge authority by letters of 29 june 2012 and 20 august 2012. we need to give a reminder that the discharge is a valid instrument of the european parliament in this respect, which requires a decision based on factual and substantive arguments; recalling, in this context, the existing rules, i.e. the staff regulations for officials and conditions of employment of other servants of the european community, the financial regulation applicable to the european communities, the authority’s founding regulation and specific policies and procedures set up by the authority. thus, the ep grants the executive director of the european food safety authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority’s budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge for the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2010, as i had fulfilled the requirements of parliament. these requirements were proposed by parliament on 10 may this year because of the need for proper documentation management in procurement processes. a similar reason was the reason for the delay in the discharge by parliament in the financial year 2009. the ema has improved its documentation control systems and has committed to regular audits of procurement processes. i believe that parliament's demands have been met and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − in favour. the work of the agency is important in providing the best possible scientific advice on any question relating to the evaluation of the quality, the safety and the efficacy of medicinal products for human and veterinary use to the member states and the institutions. the agency put in place a multiannual procurement plan for 2012-2014 as requested by the discharge authority in its report on the discharge for the financial year 2009. we should remember, however, that the court of auditors reported a high level of carry-overs for the financial year 2010 as well as a lack of compliance with the budgetary principle of annuality. this is one of the cases in which we will have to be cautious.
in writing. − in favour. this has to do basically with the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending council decision 2008/971/ec as regards the inclusion of forest reproductive material of the ‘qualified’ category within the scope of that decision and the updating of the name of the authorities responsible for the approval and control of the production. the ep adopts its position at first reading, taking over the commission proposal.
in writing. - i support this report because the european institutions are constantly taking decisions which objectively improve the lives of citizens. many of them, because of their immediate impact, are perceived by european women and europeans, but are rarely attributed to the work of the european institutions. others, more complex or aimed at specific audiences, are hardly known despite the fact that they open up numerous expectations and opportunities for citizens. all efforts along these lines strengthen the european project.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european year of citizens can serve to raise awareness among european citizens of the exercise of the rights to which they are entitled. the commission should develop the debate on the concept of active citizenship by introducing into the european institutions the debate on participation and the exercise of the rights to which citizens are entitled. we are at a historic moment of mobilization for the exercise of this active citizenship and the framework of this european year can serve to raise awareness of the exercise of the rights to which citizens are entitled.
in writing. − in favour. our amendments focused on highlighting the practical difficulties eu citizens face relating to their nationality, social and marital status, in their different roles (as consumers, residents, tourists, students, professionals, volunteers, political actors, people with disabilities) in their daily lives, such as the rights of international couples, portability of pensions and social security rights or access to public services. the right to information about accessing one’s rights within the eu should also include those resident or travelling within the eu or otherwise directly affected by eu legislation and should also be available in appropriate formats for those with particular disabilities.
in writing. − in favour. the recommendations to the council include establishing a common eu list of officials responsible for the death of sergei magnitsky, for the subsequent judicial cover-up and for the ongoing and sustained harassment of his mother and widow; imposing and implementing an eu-wide visa ban on these officials and freezing any financial assets they or their immediate family may hold inside the european union; and calling on russia to conduct a credible and independent investigation encompassing all aspects of this tragic case, and to bring all those responsible to justice.
in writing. - i have supported the contents of this report because the reluctance of the member states to accept such logical principles as those which inspire the single sky rules is an example of mismanagement of resources and a complete lack of respect for citizens. the single sky allows for cheaper, safer, shorter and therefore less polluting flight operations and requires a technological homologation of air traffic control systems which is an opportunity for european industry. with these principles in place, europe would never have faced a crisis like the one caused by the eruption of the eyjafjalla volcano.
in writing. - i voted against this report because the construction of legislation in this area cannot be an excuse for extending the powers of the defence sector. this report emphasises cooperation with nato and strengthens the role of the european defence agency in advising and supporting the work of the member states. it also envisages the need to include the eu military committee in the process. a space that should obey civilian functions is being used by the military authorities to impose their decisions and objectives on it. with the history of the military institutions mentioned above, we believe that this single european sky is being used as an excuse to increase military competence at european level. the militarization of europe is not the solution, but the cause of europe's main threats. for these reasons i have voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. the financial investment in research and development for the ses, the fabs and the sesar technology so far has been substantial. now is the time to put in place the measures necessary to reap the benefits of that investment with the successful and timely implementation of the ses. without the sesar technology, the implementation of the ses would simply not be possible and therefore the industry needs to take the deployment phase of this project seriously. as the technologies are already available from the manufacturers, the implementation of the ses is an achievable goal. furthermore, the success of the pilot programmes also demonstrates that the theory can work in practice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it reinforces the rights of passengers of all modes of transport in three fundamental areas. it requires more and better information to be provided on the services purchased when buying tickets, improves the accessibility of all users to a complaints service reinforced by uniform conditions throughout europe, is particularly sensitive to the accessibility of disabled people to them and prevents fraud that is sometimes consumed through not entirely correct or at least partial information offered on the websites of certain airlines. a step forward for european citizenship.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it involves an increase in passenger safety in the event of a breach by a transport company. it is necessary to protect passengers, whatever the means of transport used, from the abuses committed by transport companies. this is a very common practice for certain companies that avoid their responsibility and leave the passenger to their fate in the face of non-compliance. the report calls on the commission to specify clearly the cases of extraordinary circumstances which may exempt companies from liability. the report also stresses the need to require transparency in transport prices and to promote the use of combined tickets and multimodal transport. all these reasons justify my vote in favour.
in writing. − in favour. depending on the mode, passenger rights differ in terms of their scope and possible exceptions, especially as regards the definition of delays, the extent of assistance and care while passengers are waiting to be rerouted, the amount of compensation (a flat rate or a percentage of the fare), the circumstances in which compensation is not (or no longer) payable, and the time-frame for handling complaints. essentially, the crux of passenger rights is considered to be the entitlement to fulfilment of the transport contract. delays are accordingly the case in which the compensation arrangements are most clear cut. interpreting the relevant regulations, the court of justice has ruled on the scope of passenger rights as regards cancellations, delays, and extraordinary circumstances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of rejecting discharge because of the very poor information provided by the council to carry out the necessary evaluations. the lack of transparency in the work of this institution is really reprehensible, and this vote against discharge is therefore contrary not only to the content of discharge itself but also to the council's lack of transparency.
in writing. − in favour (which means that we have not approved the discharge. the report underlines that in its 2010 annual report, the court of auditors criticised the financing of the residence palace building project because of the advance payments made (paragraph 7.19). it also notes that the court of auditors made the observation that during the period 2008–2010 advance payments made by the council totalled eur 235 000 000 and that the amounts paid came from under-utilised budget lines.
in writing. − against (which means that we grant the discharge). large majorities for granting discharge to the efsa and ema and a smaller majority for the discharge of the eea with votes on the attached resolution going with two or three exceptions along our voting list, which means that we have deleted several articles of the resolution that were controversial.
in writing. - i abstained because i did not have sufficient information to give me a full picture of the question under debate and vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the economic situation in the region requires it. the talk talk facilities were located on the outskirts of waterford city in the nuts 3 region of south east ireland, and this region has consistently had average unemployment rates higher than the rest of the country; it has also fared very poorly as a result of the economic and financial crisis; for example, since 2007 the unemployment rate in the region has soared from 4,9% to 18,2% in 2011, compared to the national average of 14,3%. i also think that the direction of this fund is right.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to allocate eur 2 696 382 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to 432 of the 597 redundancies in the talk talk company, which operates in the tele-assistance services sector in the south-east of ireland. the egf shall provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and to help them re-enter the labour market. ireland has submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies in the automotive sector in accordance with the fund's own rules. it should now be ensured that the egf supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market, although egf assistance should not replace actions which are the responsibility of undertakings under national law or collective agreements, or measures to restructure undertakings or sectors.
in writing. − in favour. the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. according to the provisions of point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management and of article 12 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, the fund may not exceed a maximum amount of eur 500 million, drawn from the margin under the global expenditure ceiling from the previous year, and/or from the cancelled commitment appropriations from the previous two years, excluding those related to heading 1b. the appropriate amounts are entered into the budget as a provision as soon as the sufficient margins and/or cancelled commitments have been identified. concerning the procedure, in order to activate the fund the commission, in case of a positive assessment of an application, presents to the budgetary authority a proposal for mobilisation of the fund and, at the same time, a corresponding request for transfer. in parallel, a trialogue could be organised in order to find an agreement on the use of the fund and the amounts required. the trialogue can take a simplified form.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to allocate eur 4 325 854 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to 700 of the 987 redundancies at the pharmaceutical company astrazeneca in lund, sweden. the egf shall provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and to help them re-enter the labour market. sweden has submitted an application for egf funds for redundancies in the automotive sector in accordance with the fund's own rules. it should now be ensured that the egf supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market, although egf assistance should not replace actions which are the responsibility of undertakings under national law or collective agreements, or measures to restructure undertakings or sectors.
in writing. − in favour. the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. according to the provisions of point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management and of article 12 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, the fund may not exceed a maximum amount of eur 500 million, drawn from the margin under the global expenditure ceiling from the previous year, and/or from the cancelled commitment appropriations from the previous two years, excluding those related to heading 1b. the appropriate amounts are entered into the budget as a provision as soon as the sufficient margins and/or cancelled commitments have been identified. concerning the procedure, in order to activate the fund the commission, in case of a positive assessment of an application, presents to the budgetary authority a proposal for mobilisation of the fund and, at the same time, a corresponding request for transfer. in parallel, a trialogue could be organised in order to find an agreement on the use of the fund and the amounts required. the trialogue can take a simplified (written) form.
in writing. - i support this report because of the impact on this industrial sector of unfair competition from european shipyards by those in emerging countries. galicia accounts for 40% of the spanish shipbuilding industry. i also agree that the egf funds are specifically intended to promote the re-placement of those who have been made redundant.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to allocate eur 2 029 235 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to 450 of the 878 redundancies in 35 shipbuilding companies in galicia, spain. the egf shall provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and to help them re-enter the labour market. spain has submitted an application for egf funds for redundancies in the automotive sector in accordance with the fund's own rules. it should now be ensured that the egf supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market, although egf assistance should not replace actions which are the responsibility of undertakings under national law or collective agreements, or measures to restructure undertakings or sectors.
in writing. the ep has approved € 2 029 235 to facilitate the re-employment of workers made redundant in the metalworking sector, an aid which as mep for galicia we have supported although we believe that it is not in the form that the industry needs to stop the continuing bleeding of rising unemployment. more than 10 000 jobs have disappeared in the sector because there is no alternative to the tax lease for naval galego, and the ban on civil construction at the navantia ferrol shipyard. the magnitude of the problem is not solved by a €2 million allowance for 500 unemployed, when they lost thousands of jobs last year alone. we therefore call on the european commission to adopt once and for all a final decision: subsidies for the alternative tax system for the shipbuilding industry in galicia, suspended after the withdrawal of the so-called leasing tax, which in practice aims to ensure that galician shipyards compete on equal terms with their eu counterparts. the ban on civil construction at the navantia shipyard in ferrolterra must be lifted urgently. both measures are a real and effective way of creating jobs in the metal sector in galicia, where the unemployment rate is around 22%.
in writing. − a favor. entre marzo y diciembre de 2011, 878 trabajadores dedicados a la fabricación de productos metálicos, excepto maquinaria y equipo, fueron despedidos en galicia. con 570 votos a favor, 71 en contra y 13 abstenciones, el pleno del parlamento europeo en estrasburgo ha decidido destinar más de dos millones de euros procedentes del feag para facilitar la recolocación del 51% de los despedidos. las autoridades españolas solicitaron la financiación del feag para el sector del metal en diciembre de 2010. el sector de la construcción naval en galicia representa el 45% del total español y el contexto de crisis económica prevé un futuro complicado para el sector, que en los últimos tres años ha reducido su plantilla en galicia un 30%. la tasa de desempleo en esta región ha pasado del 8% a finales de 2008 al 17,25% en el tercer cuatrimestre de 2011.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to allocate eur 2 898 594 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to 435 of the 516 redundancies in the construction company gelderland construction in gelderland, the netherlands. the egf shall provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and to help them re-enter the labour market. the netherlands has submitted an application for egf funds for redundancies in the automotive sector which complies with the fund's own rules. it should now be ensured that the egf supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market, although egf assistance should not replace actions which are the responsibility of undertakings under national law or collective agreements, or measures to restructure undertakings or sectors.
in writing. − in favour. the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. according to the provisions of point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management and of article 12 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 the fund may not exceed a maximum amount of eur 500 million, drawn from the margin under the global expenditure ceiling from the previous year, and/or from the cancelled commitment appropriations from the previous two years, excluding those related to heading 1b. the appropriate amounts are entered into the budget as a provision as soon as the sufficient margins and/or cancelled commitments have been identified. concerning the procedure, in order to activate the fund, the commission, in the event of a positive assessment of an application, presents to the budgetary authority a proposal for mobilisation of the fund and, at the same time, a corresponding request for transfer. in parallel, a trialogue is organised in order to find an agreement on the use of the fund and the amounts required. the trialogue can take a simplified (written) form.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to allocate eur 1 494 008 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to the 616 redundancies in the aluminium company zalco in zeeland, the netherlands. the egf shall provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and to help them re-enter the labour market. the netherlands has submitted an application for egf funds for redundancies in the automotive sector which complies with the fund's own rules. it should now be ensured that the egf supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market, although egf assistance should not replace actions which are the responsibility of undertakings under national law or collective agreements, or measures to restructure undertakings or sectors.
in writing. − in favour. on 9 august 2012, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands in order to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this is the ninth application to be examined under the 2012 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 494 008 from the egf for the netherlands. it concerns 616 redundancies, all of which are targeted for assistance, in zalco aluminium zeeland company nv and in two supplier firms (ecl services netherlands bv and start) in the netherlands during the short reference period from 1 to 27 december 2011. these redundancies were calculated as follows: for zalco aluminium zeeland company nv using the third indent of the second paragraph of article 2 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, for ecl services netherlands bv using the first indent and for start using the second indent.
in writing. - i support this report because it attests, with the fund rules, to the 2 089 redundancies, all of them recipients of the aid measures, of which 649 occurred in the two branches of psa peugeot citroën (peugeot citroën automobiles and sevelnord) during the reference period between 1 november 2009 and 28 february 2010, and another 1 440 workers were made redundant by the same companies before and after the reference period, under the same voluntary redundancy scheme. i agree with the approach to aid for the relocation of beneficiaries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to allocate eur 11 949 666 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) specifically for the 2089 redundancies in the peugeot car manufacturing company in 10 different regions of france. the egf shall provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and to help them re-enter the labour market. france has submitted an application for egf funds for redundancies in the automotive sector in accordance with the fund's own rules. it should now be ensured that the egf supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market, although egf assistance should not replace actions which are the responsibility of undertakings under national law or collective agreements, or measures to restructure undertakings or sectors.
in writing. − in favour. on 21 august 2012, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of france in order to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this is the eleventh application to be examined under the 2012 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 11 949 666 from the egf for france. it concerns 2 089 redundancies, all of which are targeted for assistance, in psa peugeot citroën over the four-month reference period between 1 november 2009 and 28 february 2010 as well as redundancies resulting from the same redundancy plan based on voluntary departures, also in psa peugeot citroën, but outside the reference period. all of these redundancies were calculated in accordance with the first indent of the second paragraph of article 2 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006.
in writing. - i support the report because the fund will make it possible to facilitate the relocation of vestas workers whose unemployment situation has a very strong local impact. vestas has made it possible to provide a large number of highly qualified and high-quality industrial jobs to workers in the municipalities concerned. the loss of these jobs has caused difficulties for the region. the layoffs have come at a time when unemployment is rising rapidly. in february 2012, the number of unemployed was 36 426 in midtjylland and 40 004 in syddanmark (compared to 28 402 and 29 751 respectively in august 2011).
in writing. − in favour. on 13 september 2012 the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of denmark, in order to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant due to the global financial and economic crisis. this is the thirteenth application to be examined under the 2012 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 7 488 000 from the egf for denmark. the application concerns 720 redundancies in wind turbine manufacturer vestas group in denmark, all of which occurred during the four-month reference period from 8 february 2012 to 8 june 2012. all of these redundancies were calculated in accordance with the third indent of the second paragraph of article 2 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the commission has informed the budgetary authority that it has received the confirmation required under the third indent of the second paragraph of article 2(2) that this is the actual number of redundancies effected.
in writing. - i support the report because the fund will help to relocate the workers concerned. the redundancies referred to in the report concern three different regions of germany - augsburg (bavaria), offenbach (hesse) and plauen (saxony) - which are located in an area ravaged by the crisis. other large neighbouring cities have also been affected by the closure and layoffs, among others aschaffenburg, wiesbaden, darmstadt and frankfurt am main. plauen, in eastern germany, with a small population but a high dependence on social assistance, is the most fragile of all and deserves this support which should help to revive an area that has been badly hit by the crisis.
in writing. − in favour. on 13 september 2012 the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of germany, in order to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant due to the global financial and economic crisis. this is the twelfth application to be examined under the 2012 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 5 352 944 from the egf for germany. the application concerns 2 177 redundancies in manroland ag and 62 in two of its subsidiaries, as well as 45 in one supplier (gefinal systema), making a total of 2 284 redundancies, of which 2 239 occurred during the four-month reference period from 1 january 2012 to 30 april 2012. the redundancies in manroland ag and its subsidiaries were calculated in accordance with the second indent of the second paragraph of article 2 of regulation (ec no 1927/2006, while those in gefinal systema were calculated in accordance with the first indent of the second paragraph of article 2 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006.
in writing. - i have supported this report because i believe it improves the safety conditions established to avoid disruptions in the use of products and goods which, in addition to their civilian use, may have military applications. the measures speed up the updating of the lists without affecting the competitiveness of manufacturers. more transparency and agility without compromising the effectiveness of controls.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it involves changing the control of trade in this type of goods in european legislation, proposing an obligation to inform 30 days after the start of export operations. the proposed legislation would require inventories and controls to be carried out on such goods and on traders who trade in such goods, but these measures would be completely meaningless if traders did not need an ex-ante authorisation at the time of export. the group of the european united left/nordic green left amended the proposal to introduce such an ex-ante authorisation. as this amendment has not been adopted, i am voting against this report because it favours informational controls but not real and effective controls on the export of these products.
in writing. − against. among other things, we regret some amendments by the ppe according to which they limit delegated acts to the removal of countries under an arms embargo, and on the other hand some of our common amendments (presented together with other groups) were rejected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive because i believe it is essential to standardize the training of seafarers in europe, to improve the medical requirements for crew members and, in particular, to improve safety training both in respect of incidents specifically linked to the profession and those arising from other risks such as pirate attacks. i also agree with the measures incorporated to prevent fraud in certificates and i think it is very important that the directive will improve the statistics that are kept on the size and the conditions of employment in this sector in europe.
in writing. - i did not support this report because i felt that, although it contains the introduction of minimum qualifications, it does not introduce the necessary standards required by the new technologies today. the report introduces the international agreement known as the manila convention, which will be binding on all 'people of the sea' working in europe, improving safety in the sector. but this convention is not up to date with the major technological changes that have taken place in ships and navigation. the report also does not contain a clear delimitation of the working time of seafarers. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. − in favour. it is of utmost importance that crews being trained in different countries and under different systems operating on board the same ship have the capacities needed to perform their duties in a safe manner. training, in fact, plays an important role in maritime safety. training and certification of seafarers is regulated by the convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for seafarers (stcw convention), which was adopted in 1978 by the international maritime organisation. it entered into force in 1984 and was significantly amended in 1995. as for the structure, the convention’s introductory articles contain the general principles, the provisions on entry into force and amendment procedures. the annexes are composed of technical ‘regulations’ which contain the training, qualification and certification requirements for the different positions on ships (such as ‘captain’, ‘first mate’, etc.), as well as the ‘code’ which contains in its part a detailed tables with a precise description of the material skills (e.g., positioning, ship-manoeuvring, cargo-handling) and in its part b guidance on the implementation of the whole of the stcw rules. except for part b all parts of the convention are legally binding for the state parties.
in writing. - i voted against the agreement because it represents a new recognition of the strategy of annexation and genocide of the state of israel. the country, which has been a systematic violator of human rights and of much of international law, has been illegally occupying palestinian territory since 1967 and can export industrial products to europe as if they were national products. the agreement brings the standards applied to industrial products in israel into line with those of the european union, thereby facilitating the entry of its products into the common market. i have repeatedly expressed my strong opposition to trade with israel, which is an economic partnership with a country which constantly violates human rights and is the greatest threat to peace and security in the region.
in writing. − against. the protocol would primarily benefit pharmaceutical products, but could cover any other industrialised products from israel, if imported into the eu. in the current circumstance i understand that approving this protocol would reward israel when this country is repeatedly violating international law.
in writing. - i abstained from the final vote because it is not clear that international law is respected as regards the definition of the 'territory of the state of israel' and the requirement of non-recognition of the legality of israeli settlements in the territories administered by israel since 1967 in violation of the law is met. i call for the same strict application of international law as i called for in relation to western sahara (see eu-morocco agreement).
in writing. - i abstained on this report because it continues the double standard that the eu has been applying to its development policy. the report contains a number of serious complaints about the lack of policies consistent with the development policy pursued by the union in third world countries. but it stresses that the policy must be consistent with the lisbon treaty and the europe 2020 strategy, two political instruments for implementing the european neoliberal project that are the ultimate cause of the problems that prevent the elimination of poverty in these countries. i also vote against the double standard that the eu applies when it demands human rights from certain countries but not from those with which it signs trade agreements. these reasons have been the basis for my abstention in this vote.
in writing. − in favour. since the millennium development goals were adopted in 2000, the major changes already apparent at the time have become more evident. in economic terms, the impressive rise of china, india and brazil is effectively displacing the centre of gravity away from mature economies towards emerging countries, which, despite their impressive economic growth, are still unable to bring poverty effectively under control. globalisation, boosted by a more liberalised world trade and now an impressive source of wealth creation, is effectively the source of a very curious phenomenon: on the one hand, it reduces inequalities between countries, while, on the other, increasing inequalities inside all of them, including the industrialised countries.
in writing. - i have supported this report because it identifies and provides very practical solutions to the main problems of consolidating the activity and development of small and mediumsized enterprises in europe. it also encourages entrepreneurship. i particularly share the views expressed on financing, simplification of bureaucratic procedures, reduction of the burden of this cause and support for internationalisation and innovation contained in the manifesto drawn up by my group to support this type of entrepreneurs and companies.
in writing. - i voted against this report because, although it contains certain points which might be of interest to this type of company, i do not think it provides answers to the problems facing them in general. the main problem causing the bankruptcy of these types of companies, which are the ones that create the most jobs in europe, is the fall in consumption of the middle and lower classes who are being impoverished by the austerity policies promoted by the union. the proposal also includes points on the implementation of the services directive, which aims to liberalise and privatise public services in line with austerity policies, and to assess students on the basis of their entrepreneurial spirit. these are the reasons why i voted against.
in writing. − in favour. in the eu there are approximately 23 million small and medium-size enterprises (smes) which represent 99% of businesses. all together smes employ around 75 million people (70% of the total number of jobs in the eu). moreover, between 2002 and 2010 85% of the new jobs created in the eu came from smes. these data show the impact that smes have on the eu economy, and stress the importance for policy makers to look for opportunities to exploit the dynamism within the sector to the wider benefit of eu society. only if the eu succeeds in strengthening smes’ competitiveness and, at the same time, adopts measures able to reduce the administrative burdens that smes encounter, will the potential of european entrepreneurs be developed and the eu economy will be pushed back to growth.
in writing. - i have supported this report because it can help to make the most of the trade between the united states and the european union. the report puts the finger on the pulse by listing the problems which now hinder this exchange such as the removal of barriers to trade, the introduction of measures to ensure better market access including investment, the protection of intellectual property rights, the opening up of public procurement markets to ensure full reciprocity, the clarification, simplification and harmonisation of rules of origin, and the convergence of mutual recognition of regulatory rules.
in writing. − against. greens filed 18 out of the 123 amendments to the report. our main goal at this stage is to go against the hype of a fast-tracked fta which almost certainly will result in failure and damage us-eu relations even further. the obstacles for regulatory convergences and service liberalisation in particular are so high that we demand a much more precise elaboration of what shall be negotiated. therefore, we want the hlwg to take all the time it needs to make a sound proposal of possible deliveries of any kind of trade agreement, after thorough consultations with all stakeholders. we also warn against the hype that a comprehensive transatlantic fta could become the maker of new global trade rules, which we regard as a serious threat to the survival of the multilateral trade system as embodied by the wto. except for a couple of our amendments which were included in compromise texts, especially a hint to the very different perceptions of the role and function of public services and services of general interest, we lost all our amendments in the committee vote. as a result, greens voted against the report, together with gue.
member of the commission. − mr president, i also very much appreciate that we are having this debate today and it gives me the possibility, hopefully, to clarify a few issues and to explain our intentions. the commission is indeed, as has been announced many times (also in the evaluation report from last year), planning to propose reforms to the data retention directive, but it will not be for this year. ever since the commission originally tabled this proposal in 2005, it has acknowledged that telecommunications data are an integral part of evidence-gathering in investigations and prosecutions of very serious crime and that such data may be crucial in serving the needs of justice and protecting victims against harm. it was, and remains, necessary to guarantee that, within the bounds of proportionality and subject to appropriate safeguards and controls, these data are available for a limited period of time if police and prosecutors need to assess them. the limitation and procedures for data retention should be as harmonised as possible to minimise the negative impact on the internal market while, at the same time, respecting the legitimate and varying requirements of national circumstances. it was also necessary to have a solid european data protection level for this. all but two member states have now transposed the directive. in the commission’s evaluation of last year, evidence from member states and europol on the value of the measures of combating serious crime was presented. we have continued to press member states to provide credible and comparable statistics and case studies to demonstrate this, and we have received quite a lot of information. law enforcement and judicial authorities throughout the eu have repeatedly stressed the importance of knowing that data will be available if there is a need. however, as has been pointed out by different stakeholders – yourselves, different representatives of the data protection community, the industry, ngos and different professional groups including journalists and lawyers – the commission is also of the view that data retention has a significant impact on the right to privacy and the protection of personal data. there are a number of areas in the current directive that ought to be improved. these areas are set out very clearly and in the evaluation report and they have been further examined during consultation. for instance, a reduced and more harmonised data retention period; a scope which is clear and exhaustive in terms of the type of data to be retained; and a clearer purpose limitation for which the data may be used. we also need minimum standards for access and use of the data, better accountability on the part of authorities for the data which they access and the statistics they provide, stronger data protection and a consistent approach to reimbursing the operator’s costs. there is also – and this is very important – a need to be coherent between the obligation to require data retention in this directive – the data retention directive – and the possibility that member states have today to require, or to allow, data retention provided with the eprivacy directive. it is necessary to ensure that member states cannot use retained data for other purposes than the ones in the data retention directive. currently member states have this possibility in the eprivacy directive, so this is a loophole. the commission has already announced that we will analyse the need to review the eprivacy directive once negotiations on the new general data protection framework are over. so we are working towards a reform of the data retention directive to be presented at the same time as the future revision of the eprivacy directive. given the technical and legal complexity and the political sensitivity of this, it is likely to take some time, and i cannot give you a concrete timetable today. but i would like to mention that we very much appreciate your support and your input in this, which has contributed very constructively to our work and that of the data retention expert group.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam commissioner, while remembering that data protection is a fundamental right enshrined in article 8 of the charter of fundamental rights of the union and also in article 16 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the current directive was created with the aim of harmonising the provisions of the member states relating to the retention of data, in order to ensure their availability for the purposes of the investigation, detection and prosecution of serious crime, such as terrorism and organised crime. such harmonisation is necessary because the inefficiency of fragmentation has been demonstrated by national standards, research and practical experience. we must therefore ensure the continuity at european level of the conservation of data generated or processed. a recent and judicially-based example of how such data can serve as a tool against crime was the arrest in spain, on 4 october, of a young man who tried to imitate the columbine massacre by placing bombs in balearic universities; thanks to the police investigation, collecting data from electronic communications, it was found that he had purchased various explosive and useful substances necessary for the manufacture of homemade bombs. a real tragedy was averted. however, commissioner, i ask the commission to propose urgently the revision of the existing legal framework on data retention, because, because of its importance and sensitivity, we cannot continue with a directive with technical deficiencies and with an intrusive, and sometimes disproportionate, impact on the right to privacy.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i am among the signatories of this question to the commission and therefore i take up the concerns expressed by the signatories who spoke before you, because the concern is well founded. this is a directive which was justified at the time as a contribution, through the data retention tool, to the fight against serious organised crime and, in particular, against terrorism - and examples have been put on the table following the 2004 and 2005 attacks in madrid and london. it is true, however, that the judicial developments, the challenges to the court of justice, but also the judgments of various constitutional courts, which have revealed doubts as to whether the parameters now enshrined in the treaty of lisbon, the principles of proportionality and necessity in everything that may affect fundamental rights, enshrined in article 8 of the european convention on human rights and article 16 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, have been complied with, have shown the need to be accurate when revising the directive and have also shown the justified concern that this initiative, the timetable of which you have not just clarified, should comply with the rule of least intrusive intervention, that is, the version which is least intrusive in relation to fundamental rights and therefore best guarantees the principles of proportionality and proportionality.
mr president, when you talk about reform, mrs malmström, you have said that it would be done within the limits of proportionality. no directive is coming that says it is not within the limits of proportionality, and the same applies to the registration of passengers' names. but the problem is that when there is no directive on exceptional cases, which are the only cases where fundamental rights could be violated, we are in a situation where this cannot be fixed. because how are we going to fix the definition of what is a serious crime, what are crimes, if we already have eight countries that do not speak of serious crimes in this case of data retention, but any type of crime? the volume of data, the frequency of data retention, that makes it absolutely impossible to really manage a crime-fighting operation. even in the pursuit of the criminal and the prosecution of crime not everything is fair. the end does not justify the means. fundamental rights can only be violated in exceptional cases. and this directive, really, they have to reconsider it. you can't legislate that way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in may 2011 two of the world's largest trading areas began negotiations with a view to laying the foundations for a free trade agreement with the aim of reaching an ambitious trade agreement, a potential free trade agreement that would greatly bring the existing relationship between the two powers closer, strengthening their economic relations, and that would include matters of great importance, such as the elimination of tariffs and non-tariff barriers. this agreement will make both economies more efficient and more competitive in a much wider market. the elimination of tariffs and the consequent removal of customs barriers will undoubtedly tend to increase our trade relations. but the european union must be firm and not forget the commitments japan has made on matters of great importance to trade, such as the elimination of non-tariff barriers, particularly those affecting sectors such as the automobile industry, or the obstacles to the public procurement market, commitments which must be translated into results, and which are an indispensable condition for the success of the negotiations under way. that is what the members of the committee on international trade in this parliament have said in the resolution which will be voted on next thursday. if these conditions are respected, and in the case of very mature economies such as the european and japanese, this future agreement will undoubtedly be positive for both sides.
mr president, mr commissioner, in a globalised world, japan and the european union are strategic partners, they have common interests. agreements must be based on mutual trust and mutual responsibility. it has been a long time exploring a possibility, but the penetration of the japanese market is one of the lowest of all the industrialized countries: japan, 3%, while the european union is 30%. if there is no commitment on the part of japan to lower its non-tariff barriers, if there continue to be obstacles to public procurement, administrative obstacles - and i could give you some examples, such as those relating to leather and footwear - because there is only one day a year to make public procurement and the quota has not moved since 1996. if there are problems with plant protection products, with textiles, there are also problems with the car. the car is also the important element to be valued in this agreement, especially the commercial car. in my country, spain, it represents 10% of gdp and 9% of employment. japan must therefore work to reduce its tariff barriers, but it must also work to try to be more transparent and to give opportunities to the european market.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to emphasize my commitment to free trade agreements as a key pillar to boost the much-needed economic growth and job creation. these agreements also give a boost to relations with our allies, in this case japan. former japanese prime minister yukio hatoyama recently noted in an article in the wall street journal that both brussels and tokyo have close ties to washington, but the links between brussels and tokyo are not so close. i agree with him that this agreement could be an opportunity to make up for this shortcoming. however, at this time when we are considering the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement with japan, i believe that the european union's trade strategy must be consistent with our industrial strategy and i would like to hear commissioner de gucht's views on this. and if we want to increase the share of industry from the current 16% to the 20% we have set ourselves in the europe 2020 agenda, it would be logical, in my view, to listen to the concerns of industry itself with regard to trade policy. and there is no doubt that a key industry in this regard is the automobile industry. so let us listen to their concerns, let us work with them to make this agreement a reality as soon as possible.
madam president, commissioner barnier, i would first of all like to thank you for being here this morning and also congratulate you on the good work you have done in publishing the single market act ii. i would also like to applaud mrs bastos' work, which is right and certainly necessary. i believe that the 12 proposals in the minutes will certainly give a great boost to the single market and i am particularly pleased that the creation of a genuine digital single market is included in those priorities. this year we are celebrating 20 years of the single market. twenty years of prosperity in which we europeans have expanded opportunities for our businesses and citizens. but if we want to keep moving forward and meet the challenges ahead, the changes and developments in technology, and keep our economy competitive in the global market, i firmly believe that, just as in the 1980s we developed and materialized the four fundamental freedoms, today our main challenge must be to make a real and genuine digital single market a reality. i know, commissioner - and i know from the close cooperation we have had over the last two years - that the digital market is a priority for you. i would like to extend my hand to you once again from this platform to continue the cooperation we have had in this period between the european commission and parliament to make the digital single market a reality and complete it. just two weeks ago, we adopted by an overwhelming majority in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection the report on the completion of the digital single market. i think it is vital that both parliament and the commission convey to the council the need to take forward the recommendations contained in both documents and that we continue to work very closely to make them effective.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the advantages of the single market are unquestionable: increased competition, increased supply of products and services, creation of new jobs, lower prices for consumers and greater protection, but they are still not enough and we cannot fall into complacency. however, cultural, linguistic, protectionist and bureaucratic barriers prevent citizens and businesses from fully enjoying the benefits of the single market. a year and a half ago we celebrated the presentation of the 12 priorities for stimulating growth and strengthening citizens' confidence in the single market. unfortunately, agreement has still not been reached on most of the proposals, as the commission acknowledged in last week's communication. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the urgency of the crisis requires us to be ambitious, to go much further and to reach agreements as soon as possible, in order to boost growth, employment and the confidence of citizens and businesses in the single market.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, it is unacceptable that the erasmus programme should be put at risk as a result of this erratic, suicidal european economic policy, which is committed to privatisation, to the dismantling of the public sector, and which, in the case of the education community, in the countries most affected by the crisis, the countries of the south, can be an unacceptable tip. in my country, spain, the whole educational world is on the street. they are mobilized to defend public education, free education, because it is at risk from these cuts, from this economic intervention of the troika, which is suffocating southern europe. the fact that this programme is at risk is one more factor which will aggravate the situation and will also lead to further budget cuts, higher fees, restrictions and reductions in supplementary grants and the indebtedness of students and families in order to make use of the universal right to a good education. but it also puts european cohesion, social cohesion, at risk, giving rise in some way to that two-speed europe which we are not prepared to accept; the entire educational community must be on the same footing and at the same level.
madam president, the news about the problems of the erasmus programme is extremely serious, because it affects the training and intellectual health of european citizens. the programme is also a key pillar of european integration. the necessary funds from the relevant budget lines should therefore be allocated as soon as possible to remedy the situation and reassure public opinion. it would not be out of place to see greater restraint on the part of the responsible officials in spreading such bad news. erasmus of rotterdam wrote the eulogy of madness or praise of stupidity. it would be folly or stupidity to jeopardize the scholarships that bear his name.
madam president, mr lewandowski, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the council, two days ago in this very house we had a debate on the 2013 budgets and, among other things, i highlighted the problems we may have next year with payments if the council does not accept the commission's proposal and parliament's position. today, in this debate on erasmus, we are not talking about what may happen next year but about what is happening now, and the reality is that, because last year the commission's and parliament's position was not accepted, this year, if this is not resolved, a lot of programmes, including erasmus, may be in difficulty. mr mavroyiannis says that this is not going to happen, that there will be no payment problems: they told us the same thing last year and we no longer believe them. i am sorry, but we were told that they were going to put in enough money, that there would be no problems, and this year the commission had to present an amending budget of 9 000 million euros. i think that erasmus is not in danger, that we still have time to solve it, and it is easy: you simply have to accept the proposal of the commission and parliament so that this does not happen again.
madam president, with the erasmus grant, three million european students have had access to educational and social exchanges which have helped to improve our professional and linguistic capacity. i myself, like other young meps in this parliament, have enjoyed this scholarship in the past. erasmus has extended equality in education because it has also given the opportunity to go abroad to many young people who could not have done so because they did not have sufficient resources, as this was previously a privilege for the children of the rich. there are differences, we know, in the amount of the grants, but i ask the council and the commission what the number of students concerned is and how it is going to be ensured that students receive 100% of their grant. in this time of youth unemployment, it is more necessary than ever to commit ourselves to education and training, to commit ourselves to the flagship programme of the european union, because europe is not understood without erasmus.
madam president, erasmus is the clearest proof of the european budgetary mirage. years of irresponsibility, of compromises that cannot be met, of artificial visibility and spectacular declarations at each summit and, at the same time, less real money in the annual budget for the european commission to make its payments - commissioner lewandowski has explained this perfectly. ladies and gentlemen, we are running a deficit in the annual budget of over 130 billion euros. with all we owe in the eu budget, as we have not yet been able to meet our commitments, we would have to make the union budget for one year. it was therefore the committee on budgets, and in particular its chairman, alain lamassoure, who in a press statement a short while ago clearly referred to the erasmus programme not as a major budgetary problem but as an example of how not to budget.
madam president, if there is one thing that makes europe stand on its own feet, it is erasmus. he was awarded the prince of asturias award, which was presented to him by viviane reding at the campoamor theatre in oviedo, my home town. let's not miss this opportunity; it would be an unforgivable mistake. let us follow the budgetary advice given here by my colleague, mrs eider gardiazabal, and go ahead with erasmus!
in writing. i am a strong supporter of education and youth programmes, and particularly the erasmus programme, and i am concerned about the news about its immediate future. but as a member of parliament from an outermost region like the canary islands, i am also concerned that our young people do not have equal opportunities in eu-funded mobility schemes. canary island youth cannot and should not be worse off than other young people in the eu because they live in an outermost region. the youth unemployment rates in the outermost regions are a real concern and it is our duty to ensure that the additional cost of students moving from their outermost region of origin is borne by the programme itself and not by the students, who often see this additional cost as an insurmountable obstacle to their access to erasmus grants. erasmus for all, yes. but also for young people in the outermost regions.
mr president, the amendment is to add after the words 'child prostitution and sex tourism' the phrase 'while protecting the right of women to have access to legitimate sexual and reproductive health technologies and services'.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and the republic of serbia. in this case, in the interests of consistency of trade legislation, the rapporteur proposes amendments aimed at adapting amended provisions to the changes introduced by the trade omnibus i regulation in relation to the western balkan countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that these agreements can be effective tools for stabilising the balkan area. the report provides for the adoption of detailed rules to improve the implementation of the rules. in this case, the improvement of economic relations can help the region to recover from the wars that ravaged it during the last decade of the last century. the normalisation of relations with the eu countries can thus be an important step towards the recovery and development of the region. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. a stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, was signed in luxemburg on 29 april 2008. it will enter into force on the first day of the second month following the date on which the parties notify each other that their respective ratification procedures have been completed. the interim agreement (ia) between the european community and the republic of serbia, signed on the same date to allow the early application of trade and trade-related provisions of the stabilisation and association agreement (saa), entered into force on 1 february 2010. with the aim of the correct and smooth application of the ia, the commission proposes an implementing regulation, to lay down rules and procedures for the adoption of detailed rules for the implementation of certain provisions of these agreements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the extension of the period of application and the updating of the names of a third country and the authorities responsible for authorization and control of production. the report relates to the continuation of the seed import regime. following the adoption of the lisbon treaty, the ec has not modified the provisions relating to the old comitology, when delegated and implementing acts are now to be discussed. the rapporteur therefore considers that it should be sufficient to abolish the current comitology provisions and to that end he is tabled the amendments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, considering that an extension of the period of application was necessary to ensure supply on the european seed market. the decision covers the application of the principle of equivalence for fodder plant seed, cereals, beet and oil and textile plant seed for a period of 5 years ending on 31 december 2012. the report aims to extend the validity of the decision to a period of 10 years, provided that the third countries comply with the conditions set out in the decision. in this way it is hoped that european farmers will be able to ensure that they have sufficient inputs to start production. this guarantee for european agriculture was enough to motivate my vote in favour.
in writing. − in favour. council decision 2003/17/ec provided the list of countries to be recognised for the application of the equivalence principle for importation of fodder plant seed, cereal seed, beet seed and seed of oil and fibre plants from third countries. it also set out detailed requirements to be fulfilled, in particular to limit the period for which equivalence is recognised to five years, to be extended if all the relevant requirements are fulfilled. that period will expire on 31 december 2012. in order to ensure the necessary supply of seed to the eu market, the commission considers that these rules must be prolonged by amending the deadline until 31 december 2022, even if the temporary extension is currently foreseen for five years only. the commission argues that, since the revision of the regulation on seed (under codecision procedure) will only be launched in september 2012, a time limit of ten years seems necessary to avoid the expiration within this process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on fisheries, since the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources through the common fisheries policy is essential. it is important to stress that the current 12-mile zone created under the cfp regulation in 1983 must be maintained, otherwise it would be opening a pandora's box. today we are engaged in the reform of the cfp, which aims to promote conservation and efficiency in the fisheries sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour. that the cfp has generally been a failure over the last 30 years is a universally acknowledged fact. the commission's comment in its green paper on cfp reform (com(2009)0163) that "the current cfp has not worked well" is perhaps something of an understatement and the ongoing reform process has been brought about by necessity. in contrast, there is widespread acknowledgement that fisheries management within the 12-mile zones has been a success. the green paper for example stated that the coastal regime "has generally worked well and could even be stepped up", whilst the report on reporting obligations under council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 (com(2011)0418) stated that "the regime is very stable, and the rules have continued to operate satisfactorily". as the debate around the wider cfp reform continues, one of the key issues to be decided upon is the level and nature of decentralisation and regionalisation to be brought into effect. the general effectiveness of member state control within the 12-mile zones clearly demonstrates that management appropriate to local circumstances is most effective. the success of member state control contrasts sharply with the failure of eu-centred control - and offers a useful guide for the direction in which cfp reform should be heading.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the agreement with moldova on the protection of geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs. the agreement is the result of negotiations between the eu and moldova on this matter, properly protects eu interests and has no impact on the eu budget.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the designations of origin of goods produced in both countries should be protected. this report presents this agreement in connection with the bilateral negotiations that took place in april 2011 and aims to promote respect for the quality local production of both parties in agri-food trade. the designations of origin are instruments for the defence and recognition of traditional agricultural practices which enable producers to add value to their production by respecting quality. recognition of these names is therefore essential to recognise good farming practice. for these reasons i have supported the adoption of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour. the european union and the republic of moldova aim to assure the mutual protection of geographical indications (gis) in order to improve bilateral trade conditions and promote quality in the food chain, while adding value for sustainable rural development. the proposed agreement is the result of bilateral negotiations concluded on 18 april 2011. for the eu, these negotiations had two objectives: on the one hand expansion of the protection and use of the geographical indications system (the republic of moldova will protect all the eu gis listed), and on the other hand intervention at source with regard to potential misuses of eu gis. reciprocally, the republic of moldova had an interest in developing and protecting its current geographical indications and strengthening its relations with the eu. the agreement provides for mutual protection of geographical designations and indications (pdos and pgis) on the territory of the respective parties. the proposed agreement has no implications on the eu budget.
in writing. - i support the food assistance convention voted on today and for which parliament has given its approval to the council decision on its conclusion. today, hunger and food insecurity remain global challenges and, while efforts have been made on several fronts, further progress is still needed to make progress in the fight against hunger and malnutrition.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important to ensure food aid. the food assistance convention seeks to contribute to the improvement of food security in the world, which is especially important when the food crisis generates alarming situations in many regions. the convention aims to establish common information protocols and databases among all food aid donor countries, which will improve aid effectiveness by, for example, avoiding overlapping between shipments from different countries, and improving coordination of efforts to reach as many places as possible. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels.
in writing. − i voted in favour. parliament was requested to give its consent on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the food assistance convention (fac 2012). no amendments are possible on the content of the convention as such, and the consent concerns only the decision of the council on the conclusion of the convention and the deposit of the instrument of ratification, provided for in article 12 of the convention, with the secretary-general of the united nations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on consular protection for citizens of the union in foreign countries. under the tfeu, any eu citizen may, in the territory of a third country in which his member state is not represented, be accorded the protection of the diplomatic and consular authorities of any member state under the same conditions as nationals of that member state. the purpose of this directive is to repeal the 1995 decision, the current legislative framework, and to further develop the work of the eeas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that european countries must be jointly responsible for the situation of other citizens abroad. citizens of member states who are not represented by a consular post in a third country are entitled to consular protection on an equal basis with other european citizens and should therefore, in the alternative, be able to access the consulates of other member states. i welcome the report's approach also to the forms of collaboration and simplification of procedures between consular services to facilitate the transfer of information from one to another in order to speed up procedures. as this means an increase in the guarantees and rights of european citizens in third countries, i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour. our group supports the initiative. we tabled several amendments, which, in particular, ensure that union delegations participate in consular protection in everyday situations. we also insisted that not only family members of eu citizens but also recognised refugees, stateless persons and other persons without nationality who reside in a member state and are holders of a travel document issued by that member state be entitled to eu consular protection, but this suggestion has been included only in the form of a recommendation in recitals. nevertheless, the initiative represents a significant improvement over the current situation, especially as regards the rights of family members.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs bastos' report on the main concerns of european citizens and businesses in relation to the functioning of the single market. the single market has been one of the great achievements of the eu for 20 years and i welcome the fact that the commission has put forward this proposal, reflecting the way in which citizens view this achievement. we must continue to deepen this in order to achieve a single market in all areas.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it does not reflect the real concerns of european citizens. the single market has brought benefits to large european companies but has also had negative consequences for small and mediumsized enterprises, such as bankruptcy and disappearance. small and mediumsized enterprises are responsible for most of the employment in europe and are therefore of vital importance. i think that the concerns expressed in the report - the difficulties in opening a new account or using the technical service in another country - do not reflect the real reality of the vast majority of european citizens today, with more important problems such as unemployment, precariousness or loss of rights.
in writing. − in favour. the report recognises that many citizens encounter difficulties regarding the achievement of the single market and its consequences and calls for concrete actions to resolve '20 main concerns'. it emphasises in particular the need to make progress regarding the following aspects: the mobility of qualified labour makes it necessary to progress towards a modern framework for recognising professional qualifications; alternative dispute resolution and online dispute resolution schemes are needed in particular to reinforce citizens' confidence in the digital market; the choice of energy suppliers by consumers must be enhanced; and the lack of information for citizens and businesses and among public authorities must be addressed by instruments such as the 'your europe' portal and the internal market information system and through a better involvement of local and regional authorities. particularly important for our group was that the report keep a good balance between the focus on the concerns of citizens and of businesses: regarding citizens' concerns, we paid particular attention to the recognition of professional qualifications and the access of young people to labour, and regarding businesses' concerns, we emphasised particularly the place of smes.
in writing. - i voted against the appointment of mr mersch, not because his qualifications are not sufficient but because at least one woman has not been nominated for the post. in the 21st century we should have equal opportunities and not miss the opportunity to have at least one woman on the executive board of the ecb, as has been the case so far.
against. parliament has today taken a clear stand against the exclusion of women from decision-making bodies in the euro area. the vote, which is not binding, sends a clear political signal on legitimate concerns that the governments of the european countries cannot ignore. no woman has served on the ecb's executive board since 2011, a situation exacerbated by the absence of female presidents in the central banks of the euro area. the lack of representation of women in the highest decision-making bodies in the context of the euro crisis is a distressing situation and confirms the impression that it is an 'old boys' club'. unfortunately, and despite assurances by the president of the eurogroup, jean-claude juncker, that candidates of both sexes would be considered for the replacement of mr gonzalez-palerme, no female candidate was selected. there is no shortage of qualified candidates, however; the appointment by the greens of karoline linnert (bremen) and monika heinold (schleswig-holstein) as finance ministers in two german regions demonstrates that gender diversity is first and foremost a matter of political will. the fact that no female candidates were considered, despite these assurances, left meps with no alternative.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on defence against dumped imports from countries outside the european community, supporting the commission's proposal but asking it to consult parliament again if it intends to substantially amend its proposal or replace it, taking into account the european parliament's co-legislature.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that goods produced in the union must be protected from unfair competition. the argument used by the european court of justice in the report was that it was impossible to develop an adequate 'dumping' control procedure because of the short three-month period required by the rules. i therefore welcome the fact that this report is already seeking to amend this legislation so that the authorities can carry out anti-dumping controls effectively. the protection of european industry was the basis for voting in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the inta chair mr moreira was very, very upset at this hiccough in the council, and since conjugal relations between the two legislators are in no healthy shape anyway after 2.5 years of camping together on lisbon street, he proposed – in his inexplicable wisdom – to play hard-ball this time. hence, no first reading agreement, we would stick to the commission proposal, and then the council would need to come back, and then maybe in the end there would be conciliation, if possible still in this good old seventh legislative term. but the greens looked down on lisbon street with a pardoning smile, forgiving everyone their very unusual behaviour, at least once, notwithstanding any prerogatives of relative powers, and suggested tabling a plenary amendment that took over exactly the wording of the council proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the eu's trade negotiations with japan, as this country has a similar approach to the eu to the new challenges of the globalised world. it is crucial to deepen all aspects of their economic and trade relations in the interests of a free trade agreement.
in writing. − i voted against. greens from the outset have a different perspective on ntbs. many ntbs have their rationale in a specific culture and are enacted through democratic political decisions, thus should be abolished only by a democratic procedure. night flight bans or incentives to buy small cars (though key cars have no explicit ecological features) should not be threatened through trade agreements. moreover, we do not find it ethically or politically correct to demand unilateral concessions before you even start negotiations. while certain ntbs are indeed administrative decisions of questionable motivation and prohibit fair reciprocal market access, they ought to be tackled within the framework of negotiations for a trade agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on policy coherence for development, although i disagreed with my group on the insistence that the eu should oppose the introduction of transferable fishing concession schemes in the rfmos. this is a point being debated in the reform of the cfp where a majority is in favour of voluntary transferable fishing concessions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, considering it important to require consistency in the commission's development policy. the report considers that the right of a country or region to define its development objectives democratically in accordance with the united nations international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights should be recognised. this requirement for consistency is the result of the necessary scrutiny by parliament of the commission's work, insisting on important aspects which the commission usually ignores, such as the important effective control of arms exports. i think the report is positive, because it also makes a clear call to avoid aid conditional on the reduction of migration, not to outsource migration control to third countries and to ensure that the human rights of migrants are respected. it also requires the commission to enforce and respect workers' rights, collective bargaining and gender equality in its trade agreements with third countries.
in writing. the report sets out key considerations for ensuring the effectiveness of development policies promoted by the european union. it is not just a question of reducing the economic, social and political differences between the north and the south, but of ensuring that these changes are based on democratic principles, equality and social justice. it is worth noting that it expressly recognises the right of a third country to define its own policies, priorities and strategies in a democratic way, while still offering clear development aid alternatives such as the establishment of fair trade between the eu and the affected countries or the establishment of labour legislation that is in line with the principles laid down by the ilo. primary activities represent a large part of the economic reality of developing countries. to do this, up-to-date scientific data and the study of the social and economic impact of policies such as fisheries must be of benefit to both these countries and the eu's fishing zones. i therefore voted in favour, hoping that the recommendations made on a number of issues (migration, security, climate change, agricultural and fisheries policies, etc.) will be taken into account in order to make eu development policies more coherent.
in writing. − i abstained. although the original text was not bad, several amendments proposed by the more conservative sectors of the ep were adopted (by a slim majority). very surprising and disappointing was the fact that 50 meps (all of whom were men except one) rose to impede one important oral amendment from being adopted. this oral amendment was an addition to paragraph 114 and read as follows: ‘while protecting the right of women to have access to legitimate sexual and reproductive health technologies and services’. for all these reasons, i abstained.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the other members who have worked very well on this reform. the financial crisis has been exacerbated by the existence of complex and strange tradable securities that are linked to derivatives and trading outside official markets, all in the spirit of achieving high returns at high speed. it is necessary to attract financial transactions to a transparent market to ensure the proper formation of prices and competition for marketable products. but above all, it is essential that the information provided is understandable to investors, who must be fully informed in order to give their free consent to the risks they assume. transparency is no good, like a great flash of light, if the confusion in the configuration of tradable products blinds the understanding of citizens.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am addressing this house with the simple aim of highlighting the importance of the european semester as a tool for detecting the weaknesses of our system and for exercising the democratic legitimacy that this parliament represents. after the crisis began, and thanks to the implementation of these mechanisms, we are now able to analyse its causes in order to build on the foundations of further integration of the european union, the only answer and the only possibility to get out of the crisis and to ensure that this type of crisis cannot happen again. this semester represents the urge for coordination that has been so lacking in us so far to manage our needs as europeans together. the tools related to the european semester, the growth survey and the country-specific recommendations allow for greater stability for all member states and deeper knowledge of them. the report, which was the result of a great deal of work by jean-paul gauzès, reflects this value. but we must continue to promote greater coordination of our policies until we have not only a genuine economic union but a genuine political union. this does not prevent the agreements from being complied with, but it must be a further incentive for the union to speak with one voice.
thank you, mr fox. as vice-president responsible for multilingualism, i congratulate a british speaker who is speaking in french.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mr gauzès, thank you for your report. we are discussing this in the fifth year of an economic crisis which has left 25 million people unemployed and 115 million people at risk of social exclusion: the responsibility and effectiveness of the european union are at stake. the european semester is a key instrument for strengthening european economic governance and for making economic policies within the union a matter of common concern. full implementation confirms that it is a positive process, but it is still far from reaching its full potential. to go further, we need a genuine european economic policy framework. the annual growth report should set a macroeconomic scenario with quantifiable targets in terms of growth, job creation and investments contributing to competitiveness, in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. multilateral surveillance must be transformed into genuine economic coordination; there must be a community logic when setting recommendations, which must be more explicit and detailed, taking into account the diversity of situations, interactions and drag-on effects between member states, as well as the added value that joint actions can bring. only with a common perspective can we mobilize all the energies. the semester cannot be a bureaucratic procedure, but it must be a democratic process. economic, budgetary and social policies need transparency, civil society participation and consensus. we must ensure full democratic control in real time by the european parliament and the national parliaments. further institutional changes are also needed. the transition from the muses to the theatre, from literature to budgets, programmes and reality will require the optimisation of fiscal resources and a multi-level budgetary framework for action in all areas of the european union.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank everyone for the very constructive debate, and am especially grateful to mr gauzès for the excellent report which, as has become clear based on this debate, is gathering a lot of support in this parliament. i will make a number of remarks with regard to interventions made by several members regarding, for example, the structural deficit and whether or not the contribution to the eu budget should be excluded from the calculation. i would say that the definition of the structural deficit does not relate to expenditure categories per se, but is a definition of the deficit where cyclical effects and one-off measures are not taken into account. several members also emphasised the need to strengthen the social dimension of the european semester. the social dimension of the 2012 european semester has already been strengthened in the 2012 annual growth survey, which included as a priority the need to address unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis. equally, tackling youth unemployment has been a key priority for the commission throughout 2012. a large number of member states received a country-specific recommendation on this subject, including the eight member states where youth unemployment is the highest. the commission has also worked closely with those member states in the first half of the year to refocus the use of eu funds on creating employment opportunities for young people and increasing their employability. concerning the involvement of national parliaments – a topic that has been touched upon by several members – let me firstly say that the conference of the representatives of the relevant committees of the european parliament and the representatives of the relevant committees of national parliaments is already taking place every year in the spring. this is an important practice which could be built upon further. secondly, the commission agrees that it is desirable to intensify the dialogue that is already taking place with the national parliaments, and we have formally committed to doing this in our reply to the contribution adopted by the last cosac. we find it particularly relevant to give new impetus to such a dialogue in the context of the european semester and could foresee an intensified dialogue at two separate moments during the semester following the annual growth survey and the adoption of the country-specific recommendations. regarding the role of programme countries in the european semester, the economic adjustment programmes for those member states are aimed at ensuring a return to macroeconomic and financial stability and fiscal sustainability. these are the preconditions for sustainable growth and job creation, which are the ultimate objectives of the programmes and of europe 2020. the objectives of the adjustment programmes are therefore aligned with those of europe 2020. this is also reflected in the fact that the programmes are not all about public finances. these programmes also include important growth-enhancing structural reforms covering the most urgent issues in the respective member states’ economies. the reforms pursued under the programmes thus span a wide range of areas to ensure that the countries concerned can realise soon smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and employment creation. mrs berès – who is no longer with us – mentioned the problem of the forecasts and the imf report on fiscal multipliers. indeed, in its latest world economic outlook, the imf argues that the negative short-term effects of fiscal consolidation have been larger than expected because fiscal multipliers were underestimated. it is agreed that fiscal multipliers are larger in the current crisis than they would be in normal times. this is in line with the analysis we published in our autumn 2010 forecast. concerning the autonomy of the social partners, the social partners can in fact carry a very important responsibility and the commission naturally fully respects their role as important stakeholders. but it is important that this responsibility is also exercised in the light of the european dimension. the commission considers it not only its right, but indeed its legally mandated responsibility, to point out policy inconsistencies and potential sources of negative spillovers, including in areas where such autonomy of the social partners exists. i have a number of additional remarks to make. mr harbour emphasised the importance of the internal market. he is completely right in doing so because we can see, especially for example in banking and financial services, a fracturing of the internal market. that is a very alarming side effect of the enduring financial and economic crisis. we should certainly pay a lot of attention to that. mr eppink asked about sanctions in connection with the country-specific recommendations. without going into details, there can be sanctions within the macroeconomic imbalances procedure, especially for member states that are part of the eurozone. i would like to add that we will transmit all the remarks made by members to commissioner rehn, who unfortunately could not be present today. members can be assured that he will get a full report on everything that has been said here today.
mr. gause, a soldier, perhaps, but not a little one. the proof is the parliamentary effort you have just made in a very interesting debate where you have really shown yourself capable of changing things that have been said after listening to your colleagues. i commend you on this, because such conduct, such flexibility, is not something you see every day. thank you, mr. gause. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. declarations in writing (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mr eider gardiazábal rubial, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on innovative financial instruments in the context of the next multiannual financial framework (2012/2027 (ini)) (a7-0270/2012).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. if i may, i would like to begin by thanking all the alternative rapporteurs and the opinion-formers for their contributions to this report. there are three main reasons why innovative financial instruments are an essential tool to help return to a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth: first, since the mid-1990s, public investment has been steadily declining in the european union, and this trend has been exacerbated by the outbreak of the financial crisis in 2008. secondly, because project promoters and smes are facing an increasingly restrictive market and lack access to credit and capital markets. and thirdly, because according to the commission's own estimates, the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy will require 1.6 trillion euros. through the financial support provided by these instruments, we will help to increase the volume of investment in projects which we consider to be strategic for the development of the european union and which would otherwise, due to market failures or sub-optimal investment situations, not have been able to obtain such funding. the implementation of financial instruments will also help to put finance at the service of the real economy and to projects with european added value. the european union has been using these instruments since 2000 and with the experience gained since then and the assessments we have, we can improve the design for the future. we believe that the number of instruments should be reduced and their scope widened: in this way we will improve their visibility to the players, increase the critical mass and diversify the risk through the portfolio approach. the creation of a capital and debt platform will also simplify and make the instruments more coherent. in addition, we need a simpler, clearer and more transparent legal framework, which does not increase the administrative burden for intermediaries and beneficiaries and which is attractive to public and private investors. another requirement we consider essential is that these instruments should be flexible and therefore able to adapt to change rapidly. we therefore ask that the budgetary authority, that is to say parliament and the council, be given the possibility of adjusting the amount allocated to each instrument according to needs and to its use. in general terms, i think we can say that both parliament and the commission agree on the importance of financial instruments and the characteristics they must have, but we believe that the proposal does not meet all the needs: these instruments will have a very positive effect but, unfortunately, in the short and medium term, and we need to look for a long-term response. we know that there is a massive savings pool looking for safe and reliable financial products to invest in. we need to be able to mobilise these savings to finance medium and long-term projects that generate sustainable development in the european union. in this report i therefore ask the commission to work on proposals which can link such savings to these investment needs, and i also ask it to work on a legal and regulatory environment which is conducive to their development, particularly as regards the rules on long-term investments in the framework of the basel iii and solvency ii prudential rules. i do not know whether commissioner lewandowski can tell us anything about the commission's work in this area in his speech, but i am sure that this idea will be raised during the debate. finally, although the council is not with us, i would ask it to join parliament and the commission because our proposals are in the same vein.
mr president, i would also like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs eider gardiazabal, on this report, which sends a strong message. in times of budgetary constraints, the use of innovative instruments is key to achieving a multiplier effect of the european union budget in terms of efficiency. we who are working for the future of the union's cooperation policy are deeply concerned about the cuts that could be made in the multiannual financial framework, a move that is rejected by four hundred and twenty-five million citizens who consider european cooperation policy to be efficient and necessary, and therefore to have a future. development cooperation needs innovative mechanisms, such as the joint funds, but within predetermined standards. we're committed to engaging the private sector, but ensuring transparency and accountability. the next multiannual financial framework must provide the existing development cooperation financing instrument and the new financing mechanisms with the appropriate funds, because cuts not only create poverty but also cost lives. it is also essential that part of the financial transaction tax should be earmarked for international cooperation.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to make some short comments. from the comments you have made in this room i can hear your support and commitment to a much bigger role of the financial instruments in financing in the european union in the future. we have no other choice. there are clear needs and there are constraints in the budget. therefore there is a gap to be filled by these innovative financial instruments, which have already been partially tested but are to be applied in part on a much larger scale and under certain conditions. this is very important. the conditions have been agreed upon in the so-called revised financial regulation. there are two new parts in the financial regulation. one concerns simplification, in response to the popular request to simplify. the second is a completely new chapter on the innovative financial instruments. this is a set of rules on how to design, adopt and implement, but also how to control and monitor the application of this financial instrument. this is very important for the budgetary authorities, the council, the member states and the european parliament. thank you for your excellent job on this very complex issue of new financial instruments. there is no other choice. we have to go ahead.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have spoken here of simplicity, we have spoken of transparency, we have also spoken of information campaigns, so that people can know that these instruments exist for small and mediumsized enterprises, which often find this world of european union bureaucracy too complicated and too distant. the report also states that these financial instruments must be publicised, that regional and local bodies, banks and small and mediumsized enterprises must be trained to know how to use these financial instruments and to know that they are available to them. i would like to make a small clarification, because sometimes there are doubts about when financial instruments are used or why subsidies can or cannot be replaced. there are three investment scenarios: one is optimal, i.e. the project has a positive return and low risk and therefore that project has to be financed directly in the market. there is another situation where projects have low profitability but clear added value; in that case we are directly in the field of subsidies. but there is a middle ground between these two situations: when there is a significant return but not enough to gain access to the capital market or the credit market, and that is where financial instruments come in. therefore, financial instruments cannot, under any circumstances, be substitutes for grants and cannot, under any circumstances, create distortions in the market. and finally, i would like to make it clear that, as mr murphy said earlier, private investment has obviously declined and we have unfortunately seen in recent years how the capital markets have turned directly to speculation. but that is precisely what these financial instruments are trying to prevent, because they are going to help productive projects which we consider to be strategic to obtain funding, leaving speculation aside.
i will allow myself a licence, eider: to tell you, at the close of this debate, that, without a doubt, your grandfather, one of the great heroes of the spanish democratic resistance, who suffered years and years and years of imprisonment and suffering, would have been very proud of your leading role in this debate. ramon would have been very happy too if i had given you the floor. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission's statement on the eu strategy for the danube region.
the word is for mrs mariya gabriel, who, by the way, until now was known to us as mariya nedelcheva, and whom i congratulate wholeheartedly on her new surname, but above all on the situation, which i understand to be very happy, which is the reason for the change.
i am now handing over the presidency to mr vidal-quadras, who seems to me more suited to take over the 'eye-hunting' shift of the president that is coming up, as mr vidal-quadras is much more relaxed than i am when it comes to timing when it comes to this procedure. i see that many members have asked to speak and you will see that this is because of the length of the danube, which we already knew was a very long river and crosses so many countries that, in fact, there are many who have no choice but to take a personal interest in the situation of this river.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the committee on development and also the european commission on the impetus given to this european union strategy for the danube region. i believe that the objectives you mentioned, commissioner, are a priority, not only for the citizens of the danube basin, but also for all the citizens of the european union. i would also encourage you, as i would this parliament, to continue to promote such strategies in other macro-regions, such as the atlantic arc, to which my region, cantabria, for example, belongs, and i would ask you to make a joint effort to promote the growth of youth employment, in order to solve a problem which has become more acute in recent months, and for which the launching of these macro-regions is an opportunity for the future.
we have finished catch-the-eye. you may have noticed that all the members on the list of catch-the-eye, including the spanish one, were from countries which were once under the rule of the house of habsburg. that proves that europe is a reality with a long history, and so as not to break with this, you now have the floor, commissioner. (end of catch-the-eye procedure)
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank members very much for this debate. i will try to respond to four major topics which were raised: management and financing, environment and transport, transparency, democratic scrutiny and the treatment of youth, and, of course, reporting and implementation. first i would really like to thank everyone for their interventions, because it is very rare that one feels such overwhelming support for our common work. i think all members believe that europe needs the danube strategy and that the strategy still has a lot to offer and that we are actually only starting to grasp the potential of what we can achieve through this macro-regional approach – as was said by the president – to our common history, common past and also, i believe, common future. allow me to continue to the questions raised by mr matula, mr tabajdi and mr toia concerning the management of financing and environment. what will be very important, of course, is to achieve a good solution on 22 and 23 november, and at subsequent negotiations with the european parliament on the multiannual financial framework. this will only be the start, though, because if we want to succeed in this effort it will be quite important to have very close collaboration with the member states and with the regions. we need to work on planning together what should be the key projects to be carried out under the umbrella of the danube strategy. it would be very helpful if funds could be earmarked for the projects now, so that we know the list of priority projects and what is important for the danube regions and know which projects we would like to see implemented and financed through the cohesion and structural funds in the next period. what we will try to do in the commission will be to use the fact that this approach is already included in the draft regulations on cohesion policies, and we will do our best to include these in the common strategic frameworks, in the partnerships contracts and in the operational programmes. the question was asked by mr toia and mr matula on how the commission might be more closely involved in the planning and preparation of these projects. we consider that we can do this through our involvement in the drafting of partnership agreements and through our common management under the common strategic frameworks. we realise that, as was said during the debate, in several member states the absorption capacity of eu funding is not the best. we could do a lot by managing those funds better, synergising and offering additional technical assistance to those member states which clearly have a problem with absorbing eu structural funding. i believe that this is something on which we have to focus, not least via the financial regulations which were approved today, which offer new ways of simplifying the whole procedure, and through which we should definitely achieve much better results in the future. concerning the environmental and transport, the key issue is always how to balance environmental aspects and navigational needs when it comes to such important waterways as the danube. i agree that it is very important to use independent expertise, which is always how the commission approaches these issues. it is also important to involve the public in the discussions and find out how citizens would like to reconcile the environmental aspects and also navigational needs in their regions. therefore, the issue of democratic scrutiny and closer involvement of national and regional parliaments and the public in these debates is very important – not only from this point of view but also from that of what the eu can actually achieve through the good implementation of the danube strategy in specific regions. there was a question on orienting more of our attention towards youth. i agree with that fully because there is a high unemployment rate across europe and we can see how young people can benefit from youth programmes. priority area no 7 is focused exactly on these issues and is about bringing together universities, introducing common masters and phd programmes for young people and also strengthening youth mobility programmes in the danube region, which would be a very good opportunity for young people to get to know each other better and also to look for further opportunities for studying and later on for work. concerning the question on the danube waterway and its corridor priority, i would like to confirm that the danube waterway is in the ten-t network and therefore it will be treated as a priority project under the next multiannual financial perspective. the last set of questions was aimed at how we would report, how we would inform parliament on what has been done under the danube strategy. as i said, we are now working on the assessment of the first year of implementation, and i can assure you that the report will be prepared well before june next year. i hope that we will find in it a lot of experience that can be used for the next period and also a lot of retrospective on what could have been done better under the current period. i hope that it will also serve as an inspiration for the new project and the new activities we can pursue under the danube strategy.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the report by erminia mazzoni, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2011 (2012/2049(ini)) (a7-0297/2012).
i now give the floor to mr diamandouros. it is always a pleasure to see you here one more year on the occasion of the evaluation of the report on your activities. it is excellent news because it proves that after so many years you and i are in good health, so you have the floor.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs mazzoni, chairman of the committee on petitions, for her report, on which we shall be voting in favour. it is a good report, which covers in detail each and every one of the subjects dealt with in the annual report of the european ombudsman, mr diamandouros, to whom we also thank for all his management and all his work. it is true that you will have more work to do and we will all have to contribute to bringing the institutions closer to the citizens and to solving the problems, because all the complaints you will receive will be about the current european production model, which is absolutely unsound and unsustainable. as a result, millions of people are suffering pain, they are suffering humiliation, they are out of work, they are falling into poverty, they are being taken from their homes. the commission's proposal is to be seen as a step in the right direction, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take it into account.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
madam president, i would like to point out that some member state governments are ordering police charges against demonstrations against the cuts that are being suffered, especially in southern europe. amnesty international has just published a report denouncing this disproportionate use of police force in three states: spain, greece and romania. in spain, we have a problem because the state security forces and bodies, in particular the riot police, are acting without the visible personal identification required by law. by not being identified, any disproportionate police burden, any abuse against any citizen, goes unpunished, because the officer who has acted irregularly cannot be identified. the responsibility is political; the responsibility is not the police's, but the people who are responsible for giving the order under these conditions, and so i think that we must reflect to ensure that no action by any member of the security forces goes unpunished.
madam president, the basque country has a development model which, together with its cultural and social peculiarities, forms a country brand: euskadi-basque country. thirty years ago, we were an industrial ruin. in three decades, we have increased our gdp tenfold and reached an income level similar to that of the netherlands. the work and commitment of basque society and its own policies to support the real economy, led by the basque nationalist party, winner of sunday's elections, have consolidated our identity, which will be perceived as complete without the terrorism of eta and with peace and normalization. today we suffer the crisis. we will tackle it by returning to budgetary balance and support for industry, employment, innovation, competitiveness and internationalisation, without forgetting those who suffer most. there is no economic development without human development, and we want to bring to europe what we have learned that can be useful and to ask here for recognition and support for our institutions and aspirations for self-government. the basques and the basques have said at the ballot box this sunday that they want to preserve this identity and integrate it into europe. listen to the citizens and you will contribute to strengthening democracy on our continent.
madam president, i would like to draw the attention of this house to the catastrophic floods which have recently occurred in my region, aragon, in the area of jacetania, alto gállego, the cinco villas, the hoya de huesca, los monegros and even in the capital, zaragoza, causing considerable damage in up to one hundred and five municipalities, and which have seriously affected roads, houses, crops, railways, tracks, schools and other public establishments, with an estimated cost, at the moment, of more than twenty-four million euros. at a time when the economic crisis and drought are seriously affecting my region of aragon, this new catastrophe adds to the desolation and despair. we therefore believe that the regional government of the pp has not acted consistently, ignoring the action of the mayors, and instead should urgently and immediately apply for european aid from the european union solidarity fund. it would be very important for the citizens of aragon to be able to receive european solidarity.
member of the commission. − mr president, when i was in batumi in july this year, i said that georgia would not be the same after the forthcoming parliamentary elections – those elections would change georgia. i said we would either have, for the first time in georgian history, a transfer of power through democratic means, or we would have a strong and constructive opposition. i did not know at that time that we might end up with both of those at the same time – a change of power and a strong opposition. i take it as a major sign of democracy. i would like to thank all those members who have contributed to this useful and interesting discussion. i want to reassure you of my personal commitment to following through on our promises to georgia, including the one which you have stressed a number of times – the one related to the territorial integrity of georgia. maintaining the pace of our political association with georgia is vital to the credibility of the eastern partnership and to the prospects for stability and peaceful development in the southern caucasus. i would also like to underline the valuable role of this house in supporting georgia’s democratic development so far. i am confident that you will continue in this work, helping georgia to build stronger democratic institutions, to implement all the lessons learned from the october elections, and to encourage an effective parliamentary dialogue between government and opposition, in the service of long-term policy continuity, accountability and transparency. if i may, i would add the two following remarks. mr danjean raised an important point, and i wanted to make it absolutely clear that i did not miss the opportunity to make a strong call on the eu authorities to resist the temptation for political retribution. i have to say that i found in prime minister ivanishvili a committed partner, interested in strengthening democracy and continuing to make the best use of the deepening of political association and economic integration. what i think was the most impressive element of my recent trip last week to georgia was my individual conversation with prime minister ivanishvili and president saakashvili, both of them having a positive assessment of the transfer of power so far. i called on them to build on that positive experience and to create a strong basis for being able to address the many challenges this cohabitation will bring – and, make no mistake, there will be many. if i may also continue a thought mr tarand expressed – let me use the georgia case but i think it is actually an issue which covers more countries – when we face the election in our partner countries, the time before the elections and after the elections is sometimes also an opportunity for the political families in this house to shadow, to a certain extent, the competition of the main political parties in those elections. i believe that this is a normal political reaction of this noble house. i would also like to make the following plea. the stronger the bipartisan support for strengthening democracy that comes from this house, the more opportunity the high representative/vice-president of the commission and all of us will have to actually deliver our assistance to strengthen democracy in those countries.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the human rights situation in the united arab emirates.
member of the commission. − mr president, the eu has followed the situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the united arab emirates with some concern in recent months. as was recalled by honourable members, several individuals were arrested in 2011 and 2012 simply for expressing their political views in the media or for signing an on-line petition on the internet. that petition asked for political and institutional reforms in a peaceful and respectful manner. some of these individuals were tried and even deprived of their uae citizenship. they were subsequently pardoned, but the legal case against them has not been filed. the whereabouts of many of the other 60 political activists currently under arrest is not known. this is unacceptable and in breach of international conventions which the united arab emirates has signed and ratified. in addition to this, the uae authorities closed down the offices of the konrad-adenauer-stiftung this spring. this is a prestigious foundation which was carrying out excellent work in the uae. never have the uae authorities provided a satisfactory explanation for this eviction, which for the eu is all the more difficult to accept as that foundation was implementing an eu-funded project aimed at enhancing understanding and cooperation, which then had to be deeply redesigned. all these cases of restrictions of civil and political rights, fundamental freedoms and human rights point to a deteriorating trend that cannot leave us indifferent, especially because of the friendly relations between the eu and the uae and the good cooperation on several matters of common interest in the recent past. the eu has repeatedly voiced its concern to the uae government, including very recently, through diplomatic channels. human rights and fundamental freedoms were discussed with the gulf cooperation council at the latest ministerial meeting that took place in luxembourg in june. these issues will certainly feature on the agenda of the next meetings with the gulf at all levels, and the same messages were conveyed during the visit of a delegation of this parliament earlier this year. the eu is ready to discuss these issues with the uae and to support them in case they need and want our support. however, we want to talk to all stakeholders, activists, civil society and human rights defenders too, and not only the government of the country. in this context, the upcoming establishment of an eu delegation in abu dhabi, strongly supported by this parliament, will definitely be an element enabling us to do more and better. a specific case was raised by member of parliament obermayr in relation to dr adelsmayr, which the eu has been following very attentively since the very beginning of this case, in close cooperation with the austrian authorities. we remain ready to undertake any steps that may provide necessary with the uae authorities in order to resolve this situation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on discrimination against girls in pakistan, in particular the case of malala yousafzai.
member of the commission. − mr president, vice-president/high representative ashton has strongly condemned the shooting of 14-year-old pakistani schoolgirl malala yousafzai, who was attacked on 9 october by extremists. she described this as a vile aggression and an assault both on basic human values and against all human rights defenders in pakistan. it is encouraging that malala is responding well to her treatment at queen elizabeth hospital in birmingham and, like all of the members who have spoken here, we too wish her a speedy recovery from her injuries. it is utterly disturbing that the pakistani taliban, who took responsibility for the attack, announced that they would try to kill malala again should she recover from her injuries. we expect that the pakistan government will make every effort to ensure the safety of malala yousafzai and her family, and others who are facing similar threats. malala is well known for advocating girls’ rights to education in pakistan. she took a courageous stance against the taliban, who launched an insurgency in the swat valley in 2009 where she is from. we can only admire this girl for her courage. education is one of the eu’s priority areas for cooperation with pakistan, with the emphasis on basic and vocational education. in doing this, we pay special attention to ensure access to education for girls. we want to work with pakistan to build an education system which helps to promote tolerance. issues relating to the rights of women and children are regularly raised in the european union’s human rights dialogue with pakistan, most recently during the february 2012 eu-pakistan joint commission, and the high representative addressed this question during her visit to islamabad on 5 and 6 june. the eu has encouraged the pakistan government to take urgent measures to ensure protection for the rights of women. moreover, we provide funding for a range of human rights projects in pakistan, which have included trafficking in human beings, ending discrimination and violence against women and children, access to justice and women’s political empowerment. important new legislation has been introduced and we intend to work closely with the provinces, which now have widespread responsibilities in these areas. but we are deeply concerned at the damage that the climate of intimidation and violence is doing to pakistan’s development. following adoption of the eu-pakistan engagement plan, we aim to enhance the existing dialogue by regular sectoral dialogues on security, including the rule of law and access to justice, as well as human rights. countering violent extremism is expected to be part of this dialogue. we hope to step up our cooperation with pakistan in the coming years. supporting pakistan’s democratic institutions and its civil society must be a central part of this. the incident on 9 october led to outrage throughout pakistani society. prime minister ashraf was right when he reacted by saying that pakistan should not allow the future of its children to be endangered by a militant mindset. he has pledged to uproot the menace of extremism. we should do whatever we can to help those in pakistan who are ready to stand up against terrorism and ideologically-motivated violence.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in cambodia.
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the high representative, vice-president catherine ashton, i would like to thank the european parliament for organising this debate. it is timely, given developments in the human rights situation which have been replicated in the past two years in cambodia. intimidation of journalists, human rights activists and peaceful demonstrators is on the rise, and court trials seem to fall short of basic judicial standards. the latest example has been the sentencing of human rights activist mam sonando on 1 october to a twenty-year jail term. this was criticised by the high representative’s spokesperson in a statement underlining the lack of independence of the judicial system. the report on the human rights situation in cambodia issued in july 2012 by un special rapporteur professor surya subedi and his complementary report on the economic land concessions published on 24 september confirmed the seriousness of the situation. there is a narrowing space for people from civil society, including those belonging to different political parties, to express their views peacefully and without fear. this is particularly relevant in the run-up to the parliamentary elections in july 2013. land disputes and forced evictions lead to violence and social instability and are becoming a major political problem. the eu has raised its concerns in relation to the allocation of economic land concessions with the cambodian authorities in a number of high-level meetings, most recently the eu-cambodia joint committee in june. in april this year, commissioner de gucht also discussed the issue at length with his cambodian counterpart cham prasidh. president van rompuy’s visit to cambodia from 2 to 4 november will be an opportunity to take up these issues. he will meet with prime minister hun sen and the president of the national assembly. cambodia is still recovering from its dark and violent past; positive steps are being taken towards democratisation and the economy has been growing well, but the kingdom has still a long way to go on its path to democracy and a fair sharing of the economic growth dividend. the eu has supported, and will continue to support, cambodia’s democratic transition, and through the eu-cambodia cooperation facility for governance and human rights it has committed eur 7.5 million to support the extraordinary chambers of the courts of cambodia and strengthen the cambodian human rights committee. 60 other projects have been funded since 2003 for a total of eur 15.5 million under the european instrument for democracy and human rights, primarily supporting land rights and indigenous peoples’ rights, freedom of expression and prison conditions. the eu is exploring the possibility of an election experts’ mission to follow the preparation of the parliamentary elections next july. it will continue to call on the authorities to create an environment conducive to free and fair elections where the voter, the candidate and the commentator can exert their basic political rights. the eu will continue to pay particular attention to the human rights situation linked to economic land concessions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the announcement of the winner of the sakharov prize. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments.) written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
in writing. − in favour. energy star is a programme established by the us environmental protection agency (epa) to improve the energy efficiency of office equipment. in 2000, the eu and the us signed an agreement on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment. the agreement, which was renewed in 2006 for a second 5-year period, provides for the setting up of the energy star programme in the eu. accordingly, the programme has been jointly managed by the epa and the commission, including cooperating on the development of product specifications and the mutual recognition of products registered in the eu and the us. before the expiry of the agreement in december 2011, the council authorised the commission to negotiate a new agreement continuing the energy star programme for a third period of five years. these negotiations were concluded in november 2011.
in writing. − in favour. the introduction of ifis at european level was seen as a way of enabling the union to stimulate investment in the real european economy in line with the union’s objectives at a time when – against the background of a constant fall in the volume of resources allocated to its budget – its political ambitions, and thus its needs, were steadily growing. thus, the increased use of ifis should not turn into a strategy to reduce the size of the union budget but should serve to optimise its use. we welcome the fact that in its communication on ifis, as referred to above, the commission acknowledges that ‘the intention behind an increased use of innovative financial instruments is (…) not to replace grant funding with financial instruments’;
in writing. − in favour. the european ombudsman cooperates closely with his counterparts in the member states. this cooperation takes place in the framework of the european network of ombudsmen, which comprises over 90 offices in 32 european countries. it includes national and regional ombudsmen and similar bodies of the member states of the european union, the candidate countries for eu membership, and other countries in the european economic area and/or the schengen area, as well as the european ombudsman and the european parliament’s committee on petitions. the network holds seminars for national and regional ombudsmen in alternate years. the european ombudsman and the ombudsman of denmark jointly organised the 8th national seminar of the network on ‘law, politics, and ombudsmen in the lisbon era’. it took place in copenhagen from 20 to 22 october 2011. the committee on petitions was represented by my colleague, mrs margrete auken (green/efa).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this initiative because it is necessary to take measures to put an end to speculation affecting food and energy prices, which is being caused by a crisis unknown up to now. this requires better regulation of trade in financial products by creating a more coherent framework, making it more transparent, benefiting investors and protecting the consumer. the aim is to create a coherent and transparent framework for access to the system in order to ensure a good quality of execution of operations and preserve the integrity and efficiency of the financial system.
in writing. - i voted yes. however, while parliament voted today to limit high-frequency transactions and reduce speculation in food products, it is regrettable that our proposal to eliminate scams such as preferential ones was not supported. this is another symbol of how difficult it is to change the financial system, despite the five years of crisis. our proposal sought to eliminate the incentives that financial advisors receive for placing junk products with consumers who are not investors. that is why we were calling for the benefit of the returns from these instruments to be prohibited or passed directly to consumers. thus, financial advisors would have been forced to recommend products in the interest of their clients and not to increase their own revenues. the marketing of complex financial products must be clearly separated from the marketing of savings products; it is totally unacceptable that someone who wants a deposit ends up with a risk derivative, as has been happening so far.
in writing. − in favour. the greens want to slow down trading, as the kind of speeds now used only serve to fuel a technological arms race between hft players and other algorithms that try to protect large investors from speculative attack. we also want proper testing by exchanges of algorithms to avoid flash crash and similar events. the compromise eventually included our demands for proper testing and a consensual limit of 500 milliseconds on how long hft players must wait before they can change or withdraw offers to trade. (articles 51 and 51a mifid). we also successfully blocked an attempt to enshrine ‘market maker schemes’ in mifid – the compromise now only requires market makers (including hft players) to sign agreements about their obligations towards other market participants. since these schemes often come with rewards attached that we consider unfair treatment of some participants relative to others, we are glad that the term was removed (see article 4 of mifid for definitions).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, in the current crisis, it is necessary to coordinate the budgets of the member states in order to make them more effective and because, in the next six months, measures for growth and employment, the increase in competitiveness which european citizens expect from us, must be strengthened. i do not therefore believe that budget cuts are appropriate, but i do believe that urgent measures must be taken to control tax evasion in europe, which cannot go unpunished. all these actions and recommendations should be implemented by the member states and the commission should put in place mechanisms to follow up accordingly.
in writing. - i abstained for the following reasons. the report stresses the need for a stronger focus on employment policy in the next six months, and notes that reducing spending and improving competitiveness remain important but that the commission should also focus on other issues, such as the growth objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and the fight against tax evasion. the european parliament calls on the commission to pay greater attention to the indirect negative effects that other countries' economic policies may cause and calls on it to use eu legislation to prevent them. the report also calls on the commission to justify the role of the eu budget in the european semester, as it is an integral part of the union's public spending. meps also called on the member states not to cut the eu budget, in line with the commitments in the pact for growth and jobs. the text, however, is full of controversial articles (concessions to the right), which prevents me from voting in favour.
in writing. − abstention. we made our final vote conditional on three highlighted points (notably deleting part of article 10, adopting our amendment 8 and getting rid of article 16). we won the two first items, but the third was unclear, which led us to abstain.
in writing. − in favour of the text. the parliament elected in belarus falls short of democratic legitimacy and the european parliament will therefore continue its policy of not recognising it, both in its bilateral relations with belarus and within the framework of the euronest parliamentary assembly. we regret that the euronest parliamentary assembly does not at this stage have grounds to invite the official representatives of the legislative body in belarus to take their seats in the assembly, and that their absence deprives the eastern partnership of an important tool for bringing belarus closer to the eu’s democratic values.
in writing. − in favour. we congratulate the georgian people on the significant step they have taken towards the consolidation of democracy in their country, and welcome the fact of the democratic parliamentary elections of 1 october 2012, which were conducted in line with osce and council of europe commitments, although certain issues remain to be addressed. we also stress that this election represents an important step for the democratic development of georgia and the political future of the country, and welcome the first instance of the transfer of power by means of democratic, free and fair elections to have occurred in georgia.
mr president, i am not surprised that the committee on industry, research and energy unanimously adopted an oral question with debate on this subject, because the question of the industrialization of europe, or even the reindustrialization of certain areas where this activity has been abandoned, is key to the future of the union, to its progress and to innovation. i think that this subject we are going to discuss should serve to talk about the steel problem, in particular in some regions of europe, but also about the industrial programme for the future of the european union. my group would be in favour of a resolution if it were actually adopted at the next partsession in december.
mr president, first of all, my group would like to join in your words of deep regret at the loss of human life that has occurred in the last few days in gaza, and which is still occurring at this moment, and believes that, as the representatives of the greens/efa and gue/ngl groups have just pointed out, this is a matter on which parliament must take a decision, and it must do so in the debate scheduled for next wednesday, by conveying to the high representative verbally what the position of this house is. we would also be in favour of a formal resolution, in which the position of each group is expressed by means of a vote. but given the speed with which events are unfolding in the area, we would like to have time to mature this resolution and have it voted on in the december partsession. in short, we want to discuss this matter seriously with the high representative next wednesday and move the vote on the resolution to december.
mr president, i would agree that it was a very short resolution, that it could be negotiated quickly and that it sent a clear message, irrespective of the fact that there would be a wider debate and more complex resolutions afterwards.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, those who have some professional experience or have suffered as users of justice from procedural delays and costs will appreciate the step we are taking to overcome the so-called exequatur, in other words, the distrust of some member states of the judgments handed down in others. this is not only a simplification of cumbersome procedures, but also a choice for that longed-for european unification, and even unity, which is our daily endeavour, the real reason for the existence of this parliamentary institution. eight years ago i started in the committee on legal affairs debating with two ministers of the then dutch presidency precisely this subject, which is now coming to a successful conclusion and for which i congratulate my colleague, the rapporteur, mr tadeusz zwiefka, the commission, of course, and all the presidencies that have followed since then, including very especially the spanish one, with the good minister francisco caamaño and his team, the secretary of state, mr juan carlos campo, and the director-general, mrs aurora mejía, amongst others.
mr president, commissioner, europe has shown great potential in terms of economic growth and social cohesion, but it has a more than purely economic function: the protection of citizens and the right to housing, especially for the most vulnerable groups, or in situations of emergency, must be a priority in the european project and in its legislation. thousands of european families are losing their homes, especially in spain, as a result of the severe economic and financial crisis. we often hear of citizens who take their own lives because they cannot stop evictions from their homes. we must therefore act urgently and ensure that what is happening now will not happen again in the future: financial condemnation for life. on the basis of the principle of effective judicial protection, the court of justice of the european union has ruled that the spanish mortgage law violates european legislation. the government of my country, despite the pressure of the citizens, has been slow to react. i therefore ask the european institutions to ensure that spain will comply with the application of the rights guaranteed by council directive 93/13/eec.
mr president, one of the most pernicious effects of the current economic crisis has been its impact on poverty in our societies. in recent months, we have seen a worrying increase in social inequality in several eu member states. the destruction of jobs has also led many families to face situations of financial despair. spain has had to agree to measures to stop evictions after several suicides. in this regard, unemployment is a key factor exposing people to the risk of poverty. job destruction has increased the likelihood of social exclusion, pushing people to the edge of society and limiting their access to resources and opportunities. poverty in the eu is nowadays at an alarmingly high level: nearly one in seven people are at risk of poverty. the figures are even higher in some groups, such as children and elderly people. the most vulnerable people in our societies have borne much of the impact of the economic crisis. this situation is unacceptable. for that reason, i urge the european commission to create a european fund to fight poverty and social exclusion. we need to find new ways to address poverty while continuing to develop policies to combat social exclusion.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking mrs thyssen, on behalf of the socialist members of the committee on employment and social affairs, for allowing us to speak about the social aspect in this debate. if only because, despite the fact that president van rompuy's document contains not a single word on the subject, we are living through the most serious social crisis in the history of the european union. and it is inconceivable that in the president-in-office's document there is not a word about unemployment, about the situation of young people, about the situation of the losers - so dramatically losers, without any fault on their part - in this dramatic crisis we are suffering. i think that is still the case because we are still faced with the same problem of origin: the belief in brussels, both in the commission and in the council, a blind belief in the market. and that there is no alternative, that there is no alternative but an austerity administered like a purge and administered in such a cruel way that it will end with the sick person himself. and yet, mr barnier, in our treaty there are solutions. there is the economic and monetary union, with a dimension of growth, social policy, employment and the high standard of living of europeans. and that is the direction that should be taken in the new economic and monetary union. it is all right to go along with monetary union with a strengthened economic union, but we need that social pillar. we need that social pillar because we need the citizens. we need to bring in the millions of young people who are not in school or working today. we need to protect the fundamental rights of workers, so that the european social model does not end in this crisis. we must not lose the soul of europe, mr barnier. and for that, we don't have to leave it to bureaucrats or blind economists, who are not seeing the drama with its real consequences. to return to politics, to return to solidarity, to return to the fundamental values that gave rise to the european union, which was a community and which was more than just a market.
mr president, i like mrs thyssen's report because i think that anything that strengthens the role and authority of this parliament in the political debate is a step in the right direction. we have heard too often that the european institutions are accused of having a poor democratic quality. that is a frivolous statement which has no place in this debate. it is worth noting that this parliament has the same legitimacy as any national parliament, and it is even likely that, in some respects, it will be governed by more transparent rules and, moreover, will allow its members greater freedom. that is why all economic measures must pass through the filter of this parliament before they are finally adopted and then examined for their implementation and results. the group of experts appointed to check whether the conditions imposed by the eu authorities are being met in the states and the representatives of the stability mechanism must be present in this house so that members can have comprehensive and first-hand information.
mr president, we all recognise the importance of this report and the effort made by the rapporteur to achieve consensus, and for that i would first of all like to congratulate marianne thyssen. the house has already called for the establishment of an integrated financial framework, budgetary framework and economic policy framework. the june council agreed on the guidelines and the roadmap which we must now start to develop. it's time to make good on our deal. the first step is the banking union: a banking union based on three pillars. firstly, a single supervisor, which is the key to breaking the circle between bank debt and sovereign debt; secondly, a common deposit guarantee mechanism; and thirdly, a common system for resolving banking crises. three basic pillars to start building, finally, stability and trust. in this respect, i support the european central bank taking over as soon as possible the powers to exercise single independent supervision over all banking institutions, with the collaboration, of course, of the national authorities. as regards direct recapitalisation of banks, i support the decision taken at the june council, which stated that banks could be given a direct injection of money once the single supervisor became operational. on the other hand, fiscal union is the other medium-term objective to be achieved in order to achieve and achieve a genuine economic and monetary union. and as a culmination of this whole process, we should move towards some kind of debt mutualisation, to put an end, once and for all, to the interest rate differentials caused by the doubts about the euro area. the most important thing is, as i said at the beginning, to stick to the agreement, and i therefore reiterate my support, my full support, for the rapporteur.
vice-president of the commission. - i agree with you, mr cofferati, and i am working closely with commissioner oettinger on energy policy, because we realise that you cannot have a good industrial policy without a good energy policy. we are in favour of a single energy market which should bring down costs, we realise that. you are an italian like me and you know that electricity in italy costs 200% more than it does in china, which shows, with a simple, striking fact, how difficult it is to compete outside the european union; it's hard enough to do that on the inside, let alone the outside. so a good energy policy becomes as crucial as a good infrastructure policy. we are working on this and we need the support of the european parliament, because the two community institutions together can certainly provide a driving force for achieving the objectives on which, we are convinced, the success of a good growth policy also depends.
member of the commission. − this concerns ‘creative destruction’. unfortunately in the last few years we have had a too-deep and too-long recession in quite a few member states, and we are still looking for what i would prefer to call ‘creative recovery’. but it is true that the economy is a dynamic system, especially at a time of global competition. we also have to face industrial transformation. skills and human capital play a decisive role in that. yesterday i had an opportunity to look at a centre in portugal where there is ongoing modernisation of vocational training. especially in countries which have to make a great effort to revive their competitiveness and take steps forward for reindustrialisation, this is a crucial issue. this is why it is very important to see how eu instruments like the european social fund can support the modernisation of vocational training and the development of skills. of course it is very important to identify what skills exactly are being taught in such centres. here we have to use our contacts with social partners and all other stakeholders, because direct contact with industry – but also contact between the workers’ organisations and the training centres – can help develop the content and the approach in a forward-looking manner.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a trade policy of the union which is translated into trade agreements with various non-european countries. - of course, before any signature, there will be a test of competitiveness for our companies. we intend to meet the challenge by focusing on quality and offering our quality on world markets. it is not by chance that the text approved by the commission on the reindustrialisation of the european union indicates certain quality areas on which all financial efforts, including horizon 2020, which should make it possible to invest in research aimed at industrial policy, should be focused and should be focused. our growth missions -- the last one was in egypt last week, and next week i'll be in tunisia and morocco, then we'll be in peru and chile, and on and on to china, russia, vietnam, australia and canada; we have already been to all of latin america, we have been to mexico and the united states to present our industrial model and our industries. we are aiming to counter the relocation in these countries with new industrial plants and the results are already very positive: there is a great deal of interest and many countries outside europe - including africa - are asking for an industrial presence, to produce our quality products in those markets. it is therefore a question of being able to sell our products produced locally without relocating, and so, from this point of view too, we are doing everything possible to ensure that the quality of european industry and european industrial products is known throughout the world.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, perhaps i have not been clear enough in illustrating the document approved by the european commission on the reindustrialisation of our union. our document actually proposes a third industrial revolution, an industrial revolution that goes in the direction of energy saving, of the enhancement of the green economy, with the aim of arriving at a green economy through a greener economy. when we talk about the sectors to be supported and to be targeted for the growth of a european industrial policy, we mention the eco-friendly construction sector - as i said - the green transport system sector - i am thinking of the car sector, i am thinking of the shipbuilding sector, i am thinking of the railway sector. when i say that we must work to improve the raw materials sector, we focus on research: you know that an innovation partnership of the european union has been launched, as your colleague in the group, mr bütikofer, knows. we're doing a lot of work in the area of raw materials, recycling, substitution and extraction. i would say that our whole industrial policy is an industrial policy which has as its primary objective the fight against climate change: i have not had the opportunity to speak at length - also because of the limited time available - but if you read our document carefully, you will certainly find a positive answer to the issues you have raised. i repeat: the construction issue, including our communication on the action plan for the construction sector, is moving in this direction. all the action on car policy is going in that direction. the fact that we have announced the political event of a reversal of the european course in favour of an industrial policy does not mean that we are going back to the ideas of the 1980s or 1970s, that is to say, to an outdated industrial model which is obsolete and no longer suitable for growth and development. it's no coincidence that we have, as a special guest, jeremy rifkin whose theories go in the direction that i just illustrated. i think i can therefore avoid your concerns by saying that our industrial policy model is not an outdated model, 19th or 20th century, but a modern, competitive industrial policy model, which is certainly strongly committed to the fight against climate change.
member of the commission. − why certainly, ms schroedter, the european social fund can be a resource to support programmes which develop green skills in the workforce. that is why it is very important to mention that the commission’s april 2012 employment package did not handle the green economy marginally, it handled it very centrally, because it identified the green sector as one of the three key areas where job growth should be anticipated and investment in human capital should be focused. this is, of course, an important point in the current programming phase of the forthcoming seven-year financial framework between the commission and the member states. we trust that green skills will be prioritised in the broader concept of skills development and investment in human capital. for that we would like to provide further orientation for the member states by introducing the eu skills panorama in december. this will be launched on 7 december, and i hope its content and working method will give satisfaction.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think we will both respond to this question, but let me just highlight that of course there has been a process in recent years where we observed and highlighted the declining trend in the labour market and the loss of many industrial jobs, especially at times of crisis, but this did not affect all eu countries evenly. i think the point is that there are quite a few eu member states where very focused industrial policies have been successful in retaining industry, in retaining competitiveness through cooperation with the social partners through very focused investment and the coordination of policies of innovation, markets, human capital and whatever else is needed. the point of our new strategy is to use these successful models. for example, germany, with a very healthy mittelstand which produced growth and jobs even in times of recession, can help other countries to develop in that direction.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, as regards aid, i do not believe that the problem can be solved by state aid. i think that some industrial policy choices can be encouraged instead: i think about innovation, i think about the automotive industry, research related to, for example, hybrid cars, electric cars or hydrogen cars. these are positive and legitimate choices: we must avoid illegal state aid, because it could distort the internal market and not really help competitiveness, whereas i believe that there can be tax interventions to support consumers - that would be legitimate. i believe, however, that the greatest effort, not only through the current framework programme or the next financial perspective or horizon 2020, but also through all the structural funds, again within the next financial perspective, must be to encourage research and innovation much more. perhaps tax harmonization could also be of more help. investing in infrastructure, investing in research, investing in innovation, but without state aid in the first place, which, as has happened in the past, has only been a temporary solution and has often led to clashes between different member states. instead, we need to invest more in industrial policy - i repeat - mainly focusing on research and innovation, and perhaps helping consumers to buy the most modern, environmentally friendly products that have the most impact on the fight against climate change.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, the answer is in the new horizon 2020 model, where innovation and research are geared towards industry: applying research results to industry there was the famous death valley in the key enabling technologies sector, which caused a major brain drain as well as the exploitation of the cluster system, which will link more and more universities, hence the field of research, industry and small and medium-sized enterprises. we also intend to invest in this area to train, from an educational point of view, workers capable of working in the cluster sector and i believe that these two choices can help to solve - although not completely - the problem of the flight of the best young minds from europe to other non-european realities.
mr president, commissioner, on 10 october you presented the communication entitled 'a stronger european industry for growth and economic recovery'. as stated in that document - and you have repeated it several times today - we are talking about the third industrial revolution. this is good news, given the need for europe to have a competitive industrial sector that is capable of creating growth, sustainability and jobs, and in this respect you, commissioner andor, have a lot to do and a lot to say. since the financial perspective for 2014-2020 is to be negotiated this week, my question is: what concrete measures does the commission intend to take to mobilise the investment that is so badly needed by manufacturing in europe at the moment?
member of the commission. − as you know, the european budget is an investment budget. the size and structure of the eu budget speaks volumes about the investment capacity of the forthcoming period. that is why the commission put forward an mff, which is a robust set of financial instruments to support various ways of investing, whether in infrastructure, research and development or human capital. we have also put forward new innovative ways of financing investment in the european union, for example the concept of project bonds. so it is true that, in the forthcoming european council, discussion of the mff will be crucial. we very much hope that the arguments that the commission has put forward for investment in all these areas will be heard and that these key elements will help restore growth potential, including in the less developed areas of the european union, through decent allocations of cohesion policy. i think this is absolutely vital. we have to see not only the link between the europe 2020 objectives and the mff which the commission originally established, but also the impact of the crisis and the fact that europe has become more polarised. the regions hit by a long-lasting recession probably need more support in terms of infrastructure development as well as human capital and, in general terms, to help restore their competitiveness. i believe that the financial instruments in the mff – particularly the structural funds – will be able to do this, but this will only happen if the allocations are not reduced as compared to the commission proposal.
mr president, commissioner, it is true that it can be solid, but solid with cuts, with big cuts that are announced and that can turn the budget itself into dust. and it's complex, so complex that i ask you exactly: what budget lines are planned to boost the industry? will there be a convergence fund for r & d & i? how are smes to be helped to access credit, which has fallen by 22 points in the last year?
the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the amendments to the rules of procedure are adopted by the plenary session. but the reason i have asked for the floor is to point out that the amendment to this article will enter into force, in accordance with the normal procedure, on 10 december, that is to say, on the first day of the next partsession, and will therefore begin to affect those legislative procedures for which the committee concerned has not yet adopted, at that time, either the negotiating mandate or the composition of the negotiating team.
in writing. − in favour. after two years of negotiation, an agreement has been reached. consumers will be among the main beneficiaries of this reform. consumers benefit from the principle of the protection of the weaker party. this means that in a legal dispute between consumers and business, the consumer may always choose to go to court in the eu member state in which he/she is domiciled. this principle currently applies only to legal relationships inside the eu. thanks to this reform, a consumer will also be able to bring to court in his home eu country a seller/company from outside the eu. this is a major success for our group.
in writing. − in favour. the commission’s proposal is for a regulation restricting access by members of the public to specific substances in general use but which can also be misused as explosives precursors. to protect the free movement of goods, eight substances listed in annex i may continue to be sold in concentrated form under a licence granted by a national competent authority for a documented legitimate purpose or, without a licence, at concentration levels which render them ineffective for the manufacture of home made explosives. a further seven substances are listed in annex ii where no licences or concentration levels apply. however for all 15 substances, and indeed for sales of any other substance or mixture not specifically listed in these annexes but identified by the commission from time to time as having been used for the manufacture of home made explosives, any transaction deemed to be ‘'suspicious’ on any ‘'reasonable’' grounds should be reported to a single national contact point. professional users of these materials and business-to-business sales would not be affected. the rights of individuals to privacy must be fully respected.
in writing. − in favour. technical vote. this regulation, as proposed by the commission, provides, in connection with the accession of croatia, for a derogation to the general rules on the recruitment of european union staff. this is necessary because the rules on recruitment contained in the staff regulations for officials provide that recruitment must be open to all european union citizens, regardless of nationality. traditionally, the requirements have been temporarily adjusted when countries have joined the union, in order to allow for ‘positive discrimination’ in favour of acceding countries, allowing them to be appropriately represented amongst the staff of the european union without undue delay.
in writing. − in favour. on 27 october 2011, the commission published a proposal for a council decision to approve the accession of the european union to the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf and the seabed and its subsoil (the ‘offshore protocol’). adopted on 14 october 1994, the offshore protocol is one of the protocols to the convention for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean, commonly known as the ‘barcelona convention’, signed in 1976 and amended in 1995. the european union and all eu mediterranean coastal member states are contracting parties to the barcelona convention, together with 14 other mediterranean countries.
in writing. − abstention. the agreement with greenland is unusual in many respects. it is with an ex-member of the eu. it is with a northern country yet follows the model of southern agreements in exchanging financial compensation for fishing rights. finally, it was the first one to begin the now general approach of specifying amounts of money for fishing quotas and distinct amounts for fisheries development aid. the primary beneficiaries of the agreement are the northern member states (germany, uk, lithuania, poland, estonia), with the southern ones much less than usual (spain, portugal). many of the quotas obtained from the agreement are used by the eu in trade with norway and iceland (the eu may trade the capelin it receives from greenland to get redfish from iceland, for instance). the protocol with greenland gives access to thirteen stocks (many of which are deep-sea species that are highly vulnerable to commercial exploitation), some of which are heavily overexploited. some of these fisheries are mixed fisheries where fish is caught by bottom trawlers which have important by-catch levels. as a result of these problems, and combined with the fact that greenland is heavily dependent on fisheries and the money it earns from it, we abstained on fish.
in writing. − in favour. in 2006 the commission proposed amendments to directive 93/109/ec regarding certain detailed arrangements for the exercise of the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament for eu citizens residing in a member state of which they are not nationals. the commission wanted to ease the burden on the information exchange system caused by the prevention of double voting as well as an easing of the burden caused by the information that candidates wishing to stand in elections in another member state need to provide by replacing the need for a formal attestation by a formal declaration. parliament delivered an opinion in 2007 which went further and intended to open the way for candidates to stand in more than one constituency, something which is permitted by the 1976 act on direct elections but not regulated for in eu law or in most national laws. the committee decided to agree to use the simplified procedure to issue a swift opinion without amendment in the expectation that the modest reforms will be in place for the 2014 elections.
in writing. - this report sets out basic guidelines for setting up a financial system at european level capable of correctly informing the consumer. the provision of consumer credit provides the financial sector with facilities for domestic economies, but at the same time it can be risky if proper practices are not followed. that is why i support the rapporteur's request that the commission should assess the degree of compliance with the information obligations in consumer credit agreements. i also welcome the fact that it is proposed to extend consumer protection for short-term credit via the internet or other forms of quick credit (e.g. via sms) which are not currently covered by the existing directives. in conclusion, increased consumer protection can only be positive in this respect. bad practices (which led some member states to extend the scope of directive 2008/48/ec to other financial products such as mortgage loans) have devastating consequences in a time of economic crisis.
in writing. − in favour. the consumer credit directive was adopted in 2008 with the purpose of enhancing convergence between the national provisions regarding consumer credit (see also here attached our briefing note from the adoption of the directive in 2008). this is of course a very important legislation in particular in view of the fact that credit problems were central in the current economic crisis (even though they concerned more mortgage credits, which are not covered by the consumer credit directive). the main provisions of the directive concern pre-contractual and contractual information to consumers, a harmonised period for the right of withdrawal (14 days), protection in case of early repayments and an obligation to assess consumers' creditworthiness. the directive applies to consumer credits (not mortgage) between eur 200 and eur 100 000. greens/efa share the rapporteur’s main messages. we had tabled an amendment in imco to highlight the risks of credits made in foreign currencies, in case of fluctuations in the value of these currencies. this amendment was adopted in the imco committee. therefore we voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the financial crisis and the measures taken to tackle it, based exclusively on austerity, are telling figures. in europe, the dismantling of social protection and the recession threaten to make 80 million europeans poor, while the number of households in which no one can work is rising alarmingly and the desperation of young people who cannot access the labour market is increasing. it is therefore essential to mobilise public investment once and for all, with a view to generating social and economic benefits and promoting human capital. what is called social spending and especially the programmes which support re-employment are not spending. they're investments.
in writing. with more than 11 million jobs in the european union and one in four businesses created in this sector, the social and solidarity economy is a real lever for overcoming the crisis. social economy enterprises make a significant contribution to the european social model and to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives, in particular in the fight against poverty and exclusion, employment and innovation. it is essential to enable these enterprises, in their various legal forms (mutual, cooperative, etc.), to have access to sufficient and sustainable financing. this is why we support in particular the investment priorities for the social economy under the european structural funds (erdf, esf).
in writing. - i share the principles expressed in this report on strengthening policies for the promotion and information of quality agricultural products, both on the external market and, in particular, on the internal market. more effort is needed to provide producers with efficient access to the value chain and the income derived from it. there are clear mechanisms for this, for example, short supply chains, training, innovation and the intensive application of ict to the market. this is essential for the profitability of farms. this is the root of the problems affecting the cap. the income problems that are offset by this route could be alleviated if the profits from marketing were not mostly in the hands of distributors who have nothing to do with the productive sector.
in writing. − in favour. historically promotion measures were put in place to deal with agricultural surpluses, and, later on, food crises. however, we consider that it is now time to define more clearly a promotion policy to stimulate and reward the production of specific products included in quality schemes, and farming practices which produce fewer co2 emissions, protect biodiversity and are better suited to maintaining the quality of soils and water supplies.
in writing. − against. referring to article 14ter of the berne convention, the resale right directive (2001/84/ec) was adopted in 2001 and implemented in all member states ten years later. this own-initiative report concerns the commission’s report on the implementation and effect of the directive, drawn up in line with a revision clause in article 11. under the directive, the author of an original work of art has an inalienable right to receive a royalty each time the work concerned is sold. this right applies to all acts of resale involving any dealers in works of art. the royalty is to be paid by the seller. the main points discussed in the report by the committee on legal affairs are its conclusions that reassessing the directive in 2014, as the commission plans to do, is premature and that the initiatives taken by third countries to introduce the resale right are welcome. over all, it does not add much to the commission’s statements and conclusions. i share the position of my group: the resale right is an unnecessary bureaucratic system which mostly serves to give money to very successful artists, who are already rich, possibly to the detriment of all other, less fortunate, artists.
in writing. − in favour. the provisions of this code focus primarily on transparency, legitimacy and efficiency, with the committee(s) involved as the key actor(s) for such negotiations. they deal with issues such as the initiation by committees of negotiations with the council and the commission, stressing that, as a rule, parliament should make use of all stages of the codecision procedure and that agreements in the early stages should be the exception and should respect certain criteria; the composition and mandate of the negotiating team; the organisation of trilogues and the assistance offered to the ep negotiators; feedback to the committee responsible and its consideration of any agreement reached; the relevant responsibility at the conciliation stage being assumed by the ep delegation to the conciliation committee.
in writing. - i voted in favour, but i would have liked clearer wording and greater consideration for minorities.
in writing. - institutional openness, the possibility for citizens to have access in real time to the working materials and the debates that take place around them are one of the foundations of representative democracy in the digital age. the improvements proposed in the report on the current performance of parliament's website are in the right direction and also allow for savings without jeopardising multilingualism, which allows the number of users of these services to multiply.
in writing. − in favour. this report aims to update the rules, codifying the new practice of no longer translating the verbatim reports in full in all languages. the bureau has recently decided to limit translation following an agreement in the budget procedure for the financial year 2012 and the president asked afco to draft a report on the possible amendment of rule 181. the rapporteur agreed to limit the current dual system for reasons of cost and redundancy and taking into account technological solutions but he considered that providing translation of the verbatim report into one language only would create a hierarchy among the official languages of the eu and put into question the principle of multilingualism. he therefore proposed to draw them up only in the original language, with a positive side effect of allowing even greater budget and resource savings. he kept the proposal that members can demand a translation of extracts. if necessary the translation shall be provided at short notice. furthermore audiovisual records plus the multilingual soundtrack from the active interpretation booths will have to be available on the ep website during the current and next parliamentary term and then preserved in the records.
in writing. - this regulation is intended to help improve the safety of vehicles which cause 16% of fatal accidents on european roads. however, motorcycles and quadricycles account for only 2% of the vehicles on the road. despite the protests that the regulation has caused, i share the criteria for improving the braking mechanisms, converting the lighting into structural when they start and gradually incorporating self-diagnostic instruments to detect faults in the systems vital to the safety of the vehicle. i think it is equally prudent to make the necessary assessment before extending this regulation to other types of vehicle.
in writing. − in favour. on 4 october 2010 the commission adopted a proposal for a new regulation on the approval and market surveillance of two- or three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles. a wide range of vehicles fall within the l-category: mopeds, two- or three-wheel motorcycles, quads and mini-cars. the number of l-vehicles currently in circulation in the eu is estimated at over 30 million. with this proposal the european commission aims to simplify the current legal framework and to establish new administrative and technical requirements, for example on environmental and safety aspects and market surveillance. type approval requirements for new, l-category vehicles are currently set out in framework directive 2002/24/ec and 14 other directives referring to it. these will be repealed and replaced by the proposal laying down the fundamental provisions and scope. detailed technical requirements will be defined at a later stage in delegated acts.
in writing. - i voted in favour, but i would have liked to see the request i have been making since the beginning of the legislature to control noise pollution from the so-called 'free-range' motorcycles taken into account.
in writing. − in favour. the objective of this proposal is to lay down harmonised rules on the manufacture of agricultural and forestry vehicles (tractors, trailers and towed equipment) with a view to ensuring the functioning of the internal market while at the same time providing for a high level of road and occupational safety and environmental protection. the proposed regulation significantly simplifies the existing type approval legislation by replacing 24 base directives (and around 35 related amending directives). the new regulation and its implementing and delegated acts are meant to carry over the requirements laid down in the existing legislation without reducing the current level of protection.
in writing. − within the single market, it is urgent to integrate all payment instruments (cards, internet, mobile phones, toll booths, etc.) so that the advantages of these payment platforms can be fully exploited in all eu countries, under uniform conditions and with applications that do not require any additional effort from users and guarantee the security of their funds and payments. there are contradictions that must be overcome. in a union striving to develop transeuropean networks, it is a contradiction that you cannot pay for the motorways that integrate them with the same toll service.
in writing. − this report aims to build a european market integrating card payments, internet payments and mobile payments in the european union. today we encounter a multitude of difficulties in making economic transactions between member states (longer delivery times, among other issues). furthermore, strengthening the security of internet payments should be a constant in designing a european model for payments. i would also like to point out that there are more difficulties in making private payments at european level than in making large transactions on the investment financial markets. the most important thing is definitely to force the creation of comprehensive common legislation on a matter which is technically feasible. the aim should therefore be to make life easier for citizens by ensuring the safety, efficiency and transparency of card, internet and mobile payments. so i vote in favour.
in writing. − in favour. the diversity of payment instruments is constantly growing both at european and global level. while new ways of using mobile and internet payments seem to be fast emerging and of interest to both consumers and businesses, even the card payment market is still far from achieving its full potential and efficiency. the commission has published a green paper on an integrated european market for card, internet and mobile payments in which it points out several barriers preventing the european payment market from working as efficiently and openly as possible. the rapporteur also acknowledges the benefits of promoting and increasing card, internet and mobile payments in order to offer consumers and businesses an opportunity to have access to more convenient, secure, fast, variable, flexible and cost-effective payment methods. more extensive use of the aforementioned payment methods is also a key issue if e-commerce is to continue its rapid development and its growing contribution to member states’ gdps.
in writing. − i support the ideas expressed in this report because they are an essential complement to the measures adopted in the financial surveillance package to prevent and avoid systemic risks and to control the financial system as a whole. in fact, the gradual tightening of controls on traditional banking may stimulate more innovative practices to circumvent them, by resorting to practices linked to the shadow banking system. it is therefore necessary to anticipate developments in order to complete the regulatory framework and prevent the risks that these practices may entail, both for the financial system and for its users.
in writing. − in favour. despite representing a significant proportion of the activities of the financial sector, often higher risk activities, the ‘shadow banking’ sector has managed to slip under regulators’ and policy makers’ radars for too long. the ep has today sent a strong political signal to the european commission and governments on the need to ensure that eu rules properly apply to the sector, to clamp down on overly risky practices and to try and shed more light on what is a murky industry. in spite of the significant economic value and risks of the shadow banking sector, many of the entities involved have managed to escape regulations applying to traditional financial institutions. the financial crisis and the interlinkage of ‘true banks’ and ‘shadow banks’ has effectively meant the transfer of massive amounts of public funds to these unregulated entities. this situation cannot continue and meps have today called for this to be addressed.
in writing. - i fully support this report, because i believe it is essential to protect minors from invasion of privacy, proselytism of potentially dangerous ideologies, identity theft, risk of sexual assault and the dissemination of data which can create risks for the safety of those who handle them and for public security in general. i think it is essential in this area to make parents aware of the risks of uncontrolled use of the internet and to focus on the value of training and the adoption of laws at european level that can prevent problems arising from poor self-regulation by the content industries.
in writing. the internet is the most important technological advance of the present century. it allows us to exchange information of all kinds (written, audio and audiovisual) from anywhere in the world. this has made the internet a pillar in facilitating access to knowledge for a wider range of people. girls and boys have also found on the internet a doorway to a new world where games, educational materials and information of interest to them are mixed with content not recommended for their age. however, the internet is a threat to inexperienced and naive surfers, including children, when it comes to visiting various websites. they are exposed to risks such as the violation of their personal data, the commercial use of their profiles on social networks or other types of websites or addiction phenomena, among others. in conclusion, the european institutions should be vigilant in protecting minors in particular from undesirable situations by improving online privacy and establishing parental control mechanisms, taking advantage of the advances of new technologies. so i vote in favour.
in writing. − abstention. this report draws on the communication of may 2012 ‘european strategy for a better internet for children’ and aims at delivering an answer to the results of a survey in the member states on the use of the internet by minors. in its draft version, as presented in cult, the report focused on the fear that inexperienced and naive web surfers - among them minors - are in danger of being exposed to all sorts of abuses, especially child pornography, while parents and schools, overwhelmed by technological developments, have difficulty accompanying young people in their ‘exploration of the digital world’ therefore, ms costa insisted in her draft text on the implementation of legal measures, mixed with recommendations for stronger rules, harmonisation of systems within the eu, responsibility-sharing with internet providers, and also - but not strongly enough - on education. finally the consolidated version remains a mix between a certain demonisation of internet (e.g. recitals a and n) and a statement of the opportunities opened to children and all potential consumers ( e.g. recital i, articles 15 and 16).
in writing. − the social economy is of enormous importance in my country, and all initiatives which strongly support the extension of its values to the economy seem to me to be positive for europe. in this case, some of the measures proposed in this own-initiative report seem to me particularly practical in encouraging the european institutions to put more emphasis on a more humane philosophy of entrepreneurship. i think it is urgent, as the report proposes, to make a comparative study of the legal frameworks, operating conditions and characteristics of social enterprises, and to recognise the importance of focusing on poles of support for social innovation.
in writing. − in favour. the report recognises that the phase ahead of us should be accompanied by a high degree of innovation and experimentation, the success or failure of which should be evaluated by the eu institutions together with the member states within a defined period. specific conclusions for the corresponding optimisation measures and steps are to be drawn from this, making it possible to continue efficiently with the long-term development of social entrepreneurship. in summary: orderly framework conditions and action plans should leave room for diversity and plurality where these already exist, or establish them if they have been lacking so far.
in writing. − in favour. following the report 'towards a genuine economic and monetary union (emu)' put forward by van rompuy together with draghi, barroso and juncker, the conference of presidents took the formal decision to ask the econ committee in association with the afco committee to draft a legislative initiative report outlining the european parliament position on the future of the emu and at the same time providing a formal reaction to mr van rompuy's report under the procedure foreseen in article 225 of the tfeu and article 42 of the ep rules of procedure a legislative. under article 225 the ep may request the commission to submit any appropriate legislative proposal and set a deadline for the submission of such proposal. the commission has to explicitly agree or refuse to submit such proposal.
in writing. - amendment no 9, i agree with the reinforcement of democratic legitimacy, but the wording of the amendment is not hasty.
in writing. − in favour. the joint parliamentary assembly met twice in 2011. the 21st session was held in budapest (hungary) from 16 to 18 may and the 22nd session was held in lomé (togo) from 21 to 23 november. ten resolutions and two declarations were adopted. one regional meeting was also held during the year, in yaoundé (cameroon). in the course of its proceedings, the jpa welcomed the member of the commission with responsibility for development, mr andris piebalgs. the successive co-presidents of the acp-eu council also attended both sessions. in a break with tradition, the jpa held both of its plenary sessions in 2011 over three days, rather than four, thereby enabling considerable savings to be made in terms of accommodation and related costs.
the question of the 'blue card'. madam president, it is worth asking whether we can say that shale gas will bring us wealth and well-being, but i ask: are you in a position to say that the extraction of shale gas will not have serious repercussions on the environment or on people's health? is anyone in this house in a position to say that? and if so, why, then, do you think it has been banned in some countries, including some states in the united states? why do you want to give up the welfare and the economy of your states? this is the question i would like someone to commit to affirming here this afternoon.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating two reports today: one from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the other from the committee on industry, research and energy. the aim of these two reports is, among other things, to convey to the commission parliament's views on shale gas so that the commission can then - as the environment commissioner, mr potočnik, has said - present a report on a package of measures relating to this energy source which will allow for harmonized action in the european union. i think that both rapporteurs - one from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the other from the committee on industry, research and energy - have put their views very reasonably. logically, the perspectives are not exactly the same. and in the case of the two commissioners, they have presented their views with a great deal of balance, with great measure, which is essential in order to be able to carry on any debate, and a debate like this. someone before me said you can't argue with emotions and from emotions to the skin. i ask them who can name, say, speak of a single source of energy that does not carry its risks and its opportunities to develop the benefit it contains. same thing with this one. if mankind had rejected every advance, every encounter, every discovery of the possibility of developing an energy source solely because of the risks involved, we would never have advanced. we must insist much more that the technology is the most appropriate, that research is invested and that this new energy source can be developed with all the guarantees, doing so with moderation and without emotion.
mr president, the truth is that the citizens are concerned about what we are debating here today, and they are also concerned about what has been said about lobbyists, but i would like to focus specifically on the interest of what we are going to vote on tomorrow. there is a controversy in the international situation. the commissioner for the environment spoke of uncertainty - and it is true - about the extraction of shale gas. it has been used in the united states and the great abundance of this type of extraction has been mentioned. however, in some countries a moratorium has been established, such as in germany, and also in france. the doubts of the scientific community and the contradictions within the european union on technical safety and its possible risks and dangers to the environment and health suggest adopting a position as consensual as possible, and with the participation of all the institutions, organizations and citizens concerned. we therefore ask the commission to establish a moratorium in principle until there is sufficient scientific and environmental assurance and the application of the precautionary principle. second, you work together. you have presented two completely different points of view. we need to know that we are not facing a threat, as the rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy said. we need to know if we're dealing with a guarantee. and please, we are calling for the unification of the european union's legislative criteria on the states and regions, which are the ones who grant the permits and can sometimes produce a significant deterioration of the environment.
mr president, the sustainability of shale gas is not yet proven and involves many risks. so this parliament must support the moratorium while the climate, environmental and health impacts remain unknown, because there are not enough guarantees yet. we need preventive legislation because otherwise it is simply a greenwashing of the disastrous picture and the effects of hydraulic fracturing. in addition, public consultation and social acceptability must be ensured. finally, i would like to thank the citizens who have sent us letters to denounce the fracking problem. citizenship is not a lobby, it is the object of our policies, it is the right to communicate with your members.
the commission has already adopted a communication on the future of the european union's railways. finally, we have some industrial policy. at least the red lights have been switched on as we see the drama of what can happen to the car industry and which is now being brought to the table with the dramatic announcements of the closure of ford factories in europe. but tomorrow there will be more, and what we have on the table is the clear awareness that we lack european instruments. that we cannot respond to these crises country by country and by pitting countries against each other, workers against workers. we need a genuine european instrument that anticipates and prepares for technological change, globalisation and the crisis we are experiencing. we should not be like the financial industry, which came after us with the remedies but was unable to adopt proactive policies. i see, commissioner, that the communication is at last beginning to speak of anticipation. as you know, yesterday we adopted a legislative initiative report in the committee on employment so that there is a commission legislative act, a real legislative act which creates guidelines at european level, european standards for the responsible management of restructuring and change, and which gives priority to worker participation, information, anticipation, training and support. above all, commissioner, let us forget the story that this is only a matter for companies. it is a question of companies, but it is also a question of workers, of regions, of countries and of europe, whose future is at stake, the future in the concert of nations. we need more europe, we need more solidarity, we need more instruments to deal with the situation, as the united states has done, for example. we really need to defend a sector which is a strategic sector, in which we are not only playing with millions of jobs, but also with europe's place in the world.
mr president, 5.3% of the working population is employed in the motor vehicle sector. the numbers speak for themselves. the decline in sales on the european market, together with the business strategy, leads, in general terms, to the outsourcing and restructuring of companies. there is a crisis of overcapacity which currently affects ten assembly plants and potentially 100,000 workers. unfortunately, few restructuring cases have a long-term view; a short-term view generally prevails, in which the main element is to gain competitiveness through job adjustments. i have to tell you that on the same day that ford announced the closure of its plant in genk, it also informed its company in valencia that its production was to be moved to germany, and it did so in the same company press release. we therefore believe that this is a general european problem; we believe that it is essential to create a legal framework at european level that anticipates changes and stresses the importance of social dialogue. social dialogue is essential.
in writing. i want to express my concern - which i have already expressed on other occasions - that europe, its public authorities and its private entrepreneurs have not, in the past, avoided and resisted the mittal tycoon, who is now provoking european workers and offshoring their activities. a genuine eu policy must, as mr tajani has said, re-industrialize the continent and avoid relocations and mr mittal's continuing threats and provocations against the stability of workers who are the best trained in the world, with steelworks that must not be closed but strengthened to overcome the crisis. there is no solution with readjustments, but with work. and the europe of steel is competitive, but of course it is not worth the rapine or the lack of control or the relocation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again the defence of the general interest by the commission and parliament is colliding with the national selfishness that prevails in the council. since the legitimacy of both positions has been accepted, it is inexcusable to strike a balance. the relevance of the next multiannual financial framework is beyond doubt. the spanish delegation of the epp group and i, on their behalf, reiterate that the presidency's proposal is, in our view, unacceptable. a cut of 75 billion euros from the european commission's already inevitably meagre proposal is sterile and useless. and that is not all: the new direct blow to the agricultural and cohesion policies means crossing the red line that spain has indicated since the beginning of the work. ladies and gentlemen, this is no longer the time to debate a supposed dichotomy between austerity and growth. some of us are making tried and tested efforts and sacrifices to correct the deficit. but spain, like so many other countries, needs to grow, increase economic activity and create jobs. and this budget is going nowhere, it is a missile on the waterline. ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to achieve more europe with far fewer resources, especially if what is available is distributed unfairly. if that is the case, spain will oppose a multiannual financial framework for the european union which simply means the disappearance of growth opportunities and, above all, any vestige of solidarity, and this is precisely the direction the european council is taking. fortunately, this is not the way the commission is pointing out, and we should thank it for its efforts to point out a different way. on this point - the need for union, the need for joint efforts - i would like to thank mr barroso for his strong statement in cadiz the other day on the interpretation of the treaties on the question of a possible secessionist within the union. it has made it clear, unequivocally, as the guardian of the treaties, that if a part of a member state secedes as an independent state it will become a third country and will therefore not be affected in any way by the declarations and effects of the treaty itself. i hope, mr president, that this will be taken up and that this doctrine, which is firm and constant in the commission, will continue to be alive for the sake of everyone.
ladies and gentlemen, since we are almost an hour late, neither the 'blue card' procedure nor the 'catch the eye' procedure will apply in this debate.
mr president, in the face of the worst crisis in the european union, the citizens represented in this parliament have the right to expect an anti-cyclical budget, one which helps to get out of the crisis and stimulates growth and job creation. the council's proposal goes in the opposite direction. the european union has no deficit and no accumulated public debt, and yet this budget makes it impossible to achieve the ambitions proclaimed in the lisbon treaty. it is unfair, it is unsound, it will increase inequalities and it shows europe's fatigue. this is bad news for cohesion policy and, in particular, for the so-called regions in transition. it is a terrible news for the future of the common agricultural policy, which is at the heart and origin of the european project and which has an economic, a social and an ecological dimension, but which clearly states that without money and without resources not only is there no common agricultural policy, but there can be no reform of the common policy either. it is a blow to the european project of development aid and external cooperation, which shows the best side of europe in its commitment to the fight against poverty. it is bad news and a blow to the connecting europe facility, to the transeuropean transport, energy and telecommunications networks. it is also a brake on the declared ambitions in the area of freedom, security and justice. parliamentary rule was created in history to determine budgets and taxes. and it is precisely for that reason that this parliament has an obligation to tell the council clearly that either it changes its proposal or this parliament will have to vote against budgets which show the worst face of europe at the worst possible time.
mr president, apart from some very strange colleagues, i would be surprised if the colleagues in the european parliament were satisfied today. most of them voted in 2011 in favour of a proposal for a financial perspective, drawn up after a year of budgetary work, which took into account traditional and new european policies and which properly financed the european agenda for growth and jobs. the commission then put forward, in line with parliament, a very correct proposal, albeit one which was less ambitious, and which already took account of the wishes of the member states to reduce their national contribution to the common effort as much as possible. after that, the proposals put forward by cyprus and van rompuy went from bad to worse, with a marked downward trend. today, one day before the european council begins, we are 100 billion short of the european parliament's proposal and 75 billion short of the commission's proposal. with this precedent, the multiannual financial framework which may come out of brussels this week will reflect very worrying realities. the council considers the eu budget to be a financial burden and not an instrument of economic policy. the council rejects the idea of analysing eu spending from the point of view of european added value. with this proposal, there is no european added value. the council sacrifices agriculture and cohesion policy for the sake of calculating national net balances. the 'horizon 2020' programme will again be a blank slate with insufficient funding; it will follow the path of the lisbon strategy. and with this proposal, the council is giving in to pressure from a member state whose horizon is outside the european union. we hope that with this precedent the council will be able to change its mistaken strategy.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first i would like to thank members of this house for this debate. i think it has shown very clearly that you really represent european citizens. we participated in many rounds of negotiations. it is not only the two major eu institutions which support the proposal for a modern and a good european budget, but also scientists, students, businessmen and industrialists support a modern european budget. therefore i think the debate today was very important because it reconfirms this attitude. please allow me to react to some of the myths, which i heard again this morning and which are so misleading and so damaging to the european image. firstly, the notion that national budgets are being cut. there are cuts only in the five member states which are on the programme. so what is being cut in the member states? excessive deficits. i think we have to speak about the figures but, to be fair to each other, we have to use them correctly. i think that mr böge in his statement was very precise about that. the budgets in 22 member states are actually growing. if we look at budget developments over the longer period, from 2000 to 2011, only two member states have slower-growing budgets than the eu budget. if we take the example of the uk, in that case the budget grew twice as fast as the budget of the european union. and let us remind ourselves that in 2000 there were only 15 of us. now we are 27 and very soon we will be 28. then of course there is the issue of errors. i think that it is very important that we do not confuse errors with fraud or abuse. only 0.2% of the eu budget is actually investigated and you know very well that the commission has clean books and a clean budget. where is there a problem? with improper spending in the member states. therefore i am very glad that yesterday in the general affairs council we approved the new approach to the way in which we control and spend the eu budget. we are introducing the possibility of net corrections, so i believe that we should also increase the discipline in how the money is spent. with regard to some of the ridiculous projects which have been mentioned here, let us not assume that they are automatically paid for. more than eur 1.5 billion worth of projects are very carefully studied and we do not pay for anything which is not in accordance with eu laws and eu rules. with regard to the eu staff – and i have had quite intense discussions on this over the last couple of weeks – we have 55 000 eu officials, which include those in the council, the european parliament, the commission, the court of justice, the european external action service, delegations abroad, agencies and the two committees we have in brussels. so how does this compare with the administrations abroad? they are comparable with the city council in birmingham or the city council of paris. how can we compare the size of the staff of the commission? i had a discussion on this yesterday with my british friends. one department in the uk, the department for public works and pensions, is three times bigger than the whole commission with 98 000 people. of course we can distinguish the roles of the civil servants in this or that institution, but the fact is that this is one department for one country and we have a commission which has to serve, already now, 28 countries. therefore i think we have to keep the figures in proportion. with regard to the issue of pensions, the first thing to say is that eu officials are paying the highest contribution rates in europe and they are, of course, paying towards their pensions in a system which was developed and proposed by the member states. they are paying the pensions into the eu budget under the promise that when they reach pensionable age they will get their pension. if there were a pension fund – it was abolished by the member states – today we would have a pension fund of eur 35 billion to cover future pensions. with regard to the argument that we did not react to austerity, here again i would like to remind members that, since 2009, the commission has followed zero growth with regard to staffing. how have we reacted to austerity? we continued with a proposal of a five per cent cut with a staff which will have to cover this cut by longer working hours – which would be among the longest in the european union – without a pay adjustment. we have reacted by introducing the possibility for possibly the longest working life in the eu, namely introducing a pension age of 65 with the possibility to work to 67 and the european parliament is suggesting 70. is this not – i would say – a reaction to austerity? i think it is. i know that we are under time constraints, so allow me to conclude by saying that we very much value your support. we are of course ready to engage and we will look for the compromise. but you will also understand that we have to fight for europe, for the citizens and for a good modern eu budget.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, thank you very much for this exchange of views. i know it is only by working together that we will deliver a good and sustainable budget for the union. we have taken note of the positions expressed during this debate; we are going to convey them to the president of the european council and through the council to our heads of state and government. far be it for me to challenge or question the intentions of meps, albeit diverse and conflicting at times, or for that matter the intentions of this house as a whole. i was particularly heartened about the reminder of the role of the eu budget and the role of europe in the world and of heading 4, because indeed we do not live in a glass house. however, an agreement on the mff can only be the synthesis of a shared vision and ambition considering the dire economic realities we are facing. certainly we should not lower the level of ambition in a way which would deprive us of the means to move forward together honouring our values: quality of life, social cohesion, a redefinition of the notion of modernity and what kind of competitiveness we want; what kind of society we want; what kind of community we want. as regards the antithesis mentioned by my mentor, mr kasoulides, real as it is, there might also be differing views on how to best achieve agreed and coordinated, sought-after results. nobody in the council questions erasmus, help for smes, culture, education, research and development. even with the proposed reductions, there is a substantial increase in comparison with the current period. we do not come with a butcher’s cleaver to cut because we enjoy cutting. it is a difficult and painful situation. let us credit each other with good intentions. let us credit each other with being good europeans even if we disagree on the role, the scope and the ambit of the european union and what should be done at the european level. let us try together – but please in a pragmatic way with respect and dignity – to move the limits of what is possible and the quality of our spending, of our policies, of our actions, of our programmes. some tell us that we are a weak presidency because we have upheld these values. we will not change. we will continue to have the same ethical approach assuming fully our responsibility with modesty yet ambition; trying to bring about a big catalyst of change. however, we do not force or impose. this is our role; we are honest brokers. this is our mission. please be conscious that when member states contributing more than two-thirds of the budget and representing more than half of the eu population are asking for reductions, we cannot just ignore them. what we need is just more persuasion. this is the only way. indeed we all – member states and of course this house as well – have the right of veto. but veto is just the right to pull the plug from the bottom of the boat we are all in, with the certainty that the boat will sink. therefore, let us replace the threat of veto and the vicious circle with a virtuous one and embark on this by definition cathartic exercise, sticking together in adversity and coming out of it stronger and better off and, at the end of the day, bequeathing a better europe to future generations.
mr president, president barroso has had to leave and i wanted to answer a question. the vice-president kindly wants to do so, very shortly.
madam president, we wanted to support a very clear idea with our vote: no exploitation, no exploration, no technique, call it fracking or whatever you want, if it does not guarantee compliance with environmental regulations, and if it does not respect the rigorous standards for the protection of environmental goods. europe needs alternative energy sources, but it is also committed to a model of sustainable development. the unconventional gas reserves are an opportunity today - it is true - but europe must lead the way in research and the development of technologies to exploit this resource without endangering the environment, until the known technology is surpassed: neither exploration nor exploitation.
in writing. against. today's vote clearly reflects a lack of consensus on mr borg's competence as a european commissioner. serious doubts remain about his appointment, as he has not been able to allay significant concerns about his beliefs regarding moral aspects related to his portfolio. our group voted against this appointment, but now wants him to be proactive in promoting policies based on the fundamental values of the european union, which the college of the european commission and the european parliament must monitor and guarantee. mr borg must become a strong advocate for a strong european tobacco legislation. the controversy surrounding this case, exacerbated by mr dalli's resignation, has raised serious concerns about the influence of the tobacco lobby. mr borg must ensure that this bill is published as soon as possible, and must have the protection of public health as its priority over the profits of the tobacco industry. we also recall his commitment to launch inter-service consultation as soon as he takes office. tobacco is the number one cause of death in europe: a strengthening of european rules on labelling and other aspects clearly needs to be a priority.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it is a fundraising exercise to alleviate the serious effects of the earthquakes that took place in may 2012 in emilia-romagna (italy). this mobilisation of funds is a gesture of solidarity between the peoples of europe through political action and economic cooperation. this time the european budget is being used to deal with the emergency situation following the earthquake and to help the people of emilia-romagna in the process of rebuilding and repairing the damage caused by the natural disaster. i voted in favour of this report because the aid will help to alleviate the suffering caused by this disaster.
in writing. − in favour. we consider of great importance the quick release of financial assistance through the eu solidarity fund (eusf) for those affected by natural catastrophes, and therefore warmly welcome the prompt submission by italian authorities of their application for financial assistance from the eusf, as well as the prompt presentation by the commission of its proposal for mobilisation of the eusf. all involved parties in the member states (i.e., both at local and regional level) and national authorities need to improve assessment of needs and the coordination for future potential applications to the eusf in a view to accelerating, as much as possible, the mobilisation of the eusf.
in writing. - one of the union's basic values is solidarity between its members. i think it is essential to mobilise the solidarity fund in favour of italy to help alleviate the damage caused by the earthquake which struck that country on 20 may. the earthquake destroyed homes and infrastructure in modena and ferrara, in the emilia-romagna region. that is why i have supported this report, which expresses in much more than words our active solidarity with those affected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it concerns the introduction of good financial practice in the mobilisation of the solidarity fund. it is essential to avoid the possibility of misappropriation of funds, corruption, fraud, forgery, etc. in connection with the mobilisation of such funds. in view of the potential risk, the introduction of these financial rules is a guarantee that the funds mobilised are effectively used to alleviate the disasters caused by the earthquake in italy. such disasters must be urgently funded to help the population, but without proper financial controls they can be useless. it is because of the firm commitment to control of the funds that i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the commission proposes to mobilise the european solidarity fund in favour of italy on the basis of point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006. the iia allows the mobilisation of the fund within the annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. this is the second proposal to mobilise the fund in 2012. in parallel to this proposal to mobilise the solidarity fund in favour of italy, the commission has presented a draft amending budget (dab no 5/2012 of 19 september 2012) in order to enter in the 2012 budget the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations as foreseen in point 26 of the iia. italy applied for assistance from the fund following a series of earthquakes in italy in may 2012. on 20 may 2012, a heavy earthquake with a magnitude of 5.9 on the richter scale affected large parts of northern italy and caused severe damage (...) in particular around the epicentre, mostly in the provinces of modena and ferrara in the region of emilia-romagna. on 29 may 2012, a second strong earthquake with a magnitude of 5.8 on the richter scale occurred with the epicentre slightly to the west. both events were followed by several serious aftershocks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because regulation (eec) no 2658/87 needed to be amended in order to implement the agreements signed by the european union with brazil and thailand in june 2012 on processed poultrymeat.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because i did not have precise information on the effects of the agreement and because its implementation requires technical measures. this report is a modification of the rules to enable the implementation of the previous report a7-0350/2012. the previous report, which is strictly technical, provides very little information on the subject from the commission. it covers tariff aspects of trade in processed poultry products, to protect european farmers. this will mean higher costs for developing countries to export their products. but on the other hand, the brazilian agribusiness sector is very important and not putting up barriers between european farmers and these large producers can cause damage to the european primary sector. it is because of this lack of information that i have not voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i agree with the commission's proposal on the allocation of tariff quotas applicable to exports of wood from the russian federation to the european union.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because it represents a step forward in the eu's policy of appropriation of natural resources. the report is a piece of legislation which is favourable to importers of natural resources, who demand price security for the import of these raw materials. the world trade organisation mandate requires the disappearance of import duties on raw materials and since 2007 many producers have been affected by the quotas set by russia. these interests of european producers clash with the political position of my group in this parliament which calls for the eu to implement a proactive environmental policy which moves towards reducing the import of raw materials in order to reduce the ecological footprint that our consumption system produces. that is why i did not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − abstention. greens in inta regard export duties as a legitimate policy tool of countries to stimulate domestic processing of raw materials, to reduce the use of raw materials or to control their outflows. export duties, moreover, are consistent with wto rules. therefore, greens in inta were strongly opposed to the eu policy to make the accession of russia to the wto dependent on their withdrawal of all export duties, which held up the russia wto accession for more than three years. eventually, the need to present a success for the 8th wto ministerial conference in geneva last december made it that the eu gave in on a couple of its demands, so that russia could be celebrated as a new wto entry. however, the eu succeeded in negotiating the above protocols on a certain amount of wood imports from russia under tariff-rate quotas. these quotas are set so high that they are not even used. hence, these quotas will increase wood imports from russia into the eu. given greens general policy to reduce the use of raw materials, but welcoming that a compromise had been found to accelerate the wto membership of russia, which greens support, we abstained on both files in committee.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the agreements with brazil and thailand, which i consider to be strategic, given the areas in which both countries are situated and the role they play in them. i also believe that the level of protection and compensation for the eu's trading partners and the wto member countries through quotas must be improved.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because i did not have precise information on the effects of this trade agreement. the report, which is strictly technical in nature, provides very little information from the commission on the consequences of the report, even though it affects various aspects of trade in these goods. according to some sources, this agreement will lead to higher costs for developing countries to export their poultry products. but on the other hand the brazilian agribusiness sector is very important and not putting up barriers between european farmers and these large producers can cause damage to the european primary sector. i have not voted for this report because of this lack of information.
in writing. − greens regret the lack of facts and figures provided by dg trade to inform this dossier. we criticise that since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, an enormously increasing number of co-legislative dossiers is transmitted for vote very often without an extremely narrow timeline for consideration and with an absolutely insufficient provision of data (e.g. dg trade just sent the draft council decision, with even registration numbers of dossiers not filled in. the text of the new agreement was not included in the inta website). parts of the lacking dossier received from other sources revealed that no impact assessment has been made nor is foreseen for the current agreement. unfortunately, agri did not give an opinion, which could have produced more insight. the article 138 procedure makes it impossible to state disagreement in a debate. we have abstained in order to show disagreement with obscure negotiations and decisions with unclear repartition of interests and profits.
in writing. - i voted against this report because, although it is a technical report on trade, i consider it impossible for any treaty with the state of israel to be neutral and apolitical. we oppose this euro-mediterranean agreement on the assumption that, in the case of agriculture and fisheries, the liberalisation of these markets allows the entry of large companies which threaten the survival of small farmers and fishermen on both sides of the agreement. beyond the strict economic impact of the agreement, we must take into account the current political situation. the serious war crimes committed against the civilian population of gaza, which will not be tried or prosecuted in israel, make it impossible to maintain the neutrality of a strengthening of trade relations with that country. in fact, it is an affirmation of political collaboration with their illegal occupation of territories, as well as with their war crimes. to express my opposition to israel's criminal policy, i have voted against this report.
in writing. − against. in the committee on international trade (inta), the greens supported the moreira line to keep the dossier frozen, as this seemed to be the most promising way to keep a majority together in that committee. in the opinion from the committee on foreign affairs (afet), the greens called for an interim report, which should have laid down the conditions for an acceptable caa. as moreira failed with his approach in the leading committee (inta), he first proposed an interpretative declaration to be adopted at plenary level in an attempt to remedy this failure in a less comprehensive way. then he proposed to send back the file to inta, as the consultation of parliament is not included in the revised council decision on caa. during the vote in plenary, we called for a postponement but failed. therefore we voted against this resolution.
in writing. - europe must protect its productive sectors by properly structuring this type of trade relations in particularly sensitive markets. the text adopted is positive because it is of the utmost importance to prevent russia from increasing export duties again, which would harm european producers. the agreement will bring balance and improve trading conditions.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because it represents a step forward in the eu's policy of appropriation of natural resources. the report is an agreement between the two parties to safeguard the interests of importers of natural resources, who demand price security in the import of this raw material. the wto mandate requires the disappearance of import duties on raw materials and since 2007 many producers have been affected by the quotas imposed by russia. these interests of european producers clash with the political position of my group in this parliament which calls for the eu to implement a proactive environmental policy which moves towards reducing the import of raw materials in order to reduce the ecological footprint that our consumption system produces. that is why i did not support this report.
in writing. − in favour. the rapporteur mainly addresses the concerns raised by edps (in particular, the mechanism of supervision of data processing during the migration, verification of data before the migration, deletion of old data after the migration). he also maintains the deadline for the transition in the migration instrument: 30 june 2013, otherwise another solution should be found. the council decided to split the proposal into two almost identical documents, in one of which great britain and ireland can participate (police cooperation), and in the other they cannot (refusal of entry, etc.). on 5 october the parliament was consulted on the splitting, therefore it was decided to apply a simplified procedure in accordance with rule 46(2). since only one member objected within a set time limit, both reports are deemed adopted without vote on particular amendments. our group can support the initiative, since our concerns (data protection and final deadline) are fully taken into account (as we did in september 2008 while supporting migration instruments and in may 2010 when the current migration instruments were being amended).
in writing. - i voted against this report because the migration from the sis i+ information system to the sis ii is taking place without ensuring the full security of the information contained therein. the proposal has positive points in terms of legal certainty by extending the legal framework of the sis ii system to the period of adaptation of national systems to sis ii, thus avoiding unnecessary expenditure in the european budget. however, it already had serious doubts about the security and data protection within sis i+ and the migration to the new sis ii will bring the introduction of new data, alarm types and functionalities without a full security guarantee in data protection. because of this gap in the security of europeans' data, i can only take a position against this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it is a good summary of the information on this subject. the report draws attention to the huge number of cases with no notification (470 pending in 2010). it also calls for greater transparency and reciprocity in communication between parliament and the commission. the communication of complaints, infringement files, etc. can be improved without jeopardising the objectives of the investigations. the report calls on the commission to respect the principles of the rule of law in matters where it has discretion, to ensure transparency, openness, proportionality, etc. the report also calls for rules defining in a secure and reliable way the commission's procedural relationship with such complaints so as to effectively ensure the commission's accountability in relation to complaints made by european citizens. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the infringement procedure consists of two phases: the administrative (investigation) stage and the judicial stage. i support the rapporteur’s view and consider that the role of citizens as complainants is vital in the administrative phase when it comes to ensuring compliance with union law. the commission should therefore not make use of soft law when dealing with the infringement procedure but should instead propose a regulation under article 298 tfeu (supported by article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights), setting out the various aspects of the infringement procedure and the pre-infringement procedure, including notifications, binding time-limits, the right to be heard, the obligation to state reasons and the right for every person to have access to her/ his file, in order to reinforce citizens’ rights and guarantee transparency.
in writing. - i voted against the report because the exploitation of shale gas poses a major threat to the environment, as it involves the pollution of groundwater. my group has proposed an amendment to this report concerning the inclusion of a moratorium on the development of such activities in europe. the moratorium is essential to ensure the health of the waters and to avoid their pollution, as well as to avoid documented side effects such as the possibility of causing earthquakes due to severe soil disturbances. the amendment proposing such a moratorium has been rejected by a majority of the house, allowing this type of exploitation to enter the european union with the serious environmental consequences it will entail. for these reasons i have voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. starting from a very pro-shale gas draft report by epp polish rapporteur, mr sonik, thanks to close cooperation with other groups in envi, the report was turned around through a large number of compromises negotiated with the rapporteur, as well additional amendments adopted through vote. the report, inter alia, calls for thorough analysis of eu regulatory framework, and com to come forward with legislative proposals; urges member states to be cautious in going further with shale gas until the completion of the ongoing regulatory analysis and to implement all existing regulations effectively; obligatory baseline monitoring as well as com guidance on baseline water monitoring, criteria for assessing impact on groundwater in different geological formations, as well as cumulative impacts; full polluter pays, sufficient financial guarantees for environmental and civil liability of any damage; ban in sensitive areas (drinking water protection areas and coal mining areas). on the negative side, language on gas as back-up and enhancing competitiveness, and that as substitute for coal and oil in the short-to-medium term could help to reduce ghg emissions ‘depending on their lifecycle’ was adopted.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it authorizes the exploitation of shale gas in europe to meet energy demand. shale gas is based on the technique of hydraulic fracturing, which involves the injection of water with sand and different corrosive chemicals to fracture the rocks containing the gas. this extractive method produces significant harmful effects on the environment: pollution of groundwater, emission of toxic gases, or even the production of earthquakes. the authorization of this extractive method means, once again, that the european environment is being subordinated to the commercial interests of the large energy companies. the energy future of europe necessarily requires a policy which gives priority to the environmental sustainability of supply, which is why progress in renewable energy is necessary and not the expansion of non-renewable energy resources which are mere temporary patches with disastrous effects on the environment. for these reasons i have voted against the report.
in writing. against. in view of the consequences of the exploitation of shale gas overseas, it would have been irresponsible to give our approval to the unrestrained exploitation of shale gas, since the current european legislation is deficient and inadequate. studies commissioned by the european commission have clearly demonstrated the harmful impact of hydraulic fracturing: the risk of pollution of surface water and groundwater, depletion of water resources, devastating ground seepage, air pollution, etc. all precautions must therefore be taken to prevent the potentially disastrous consequences of hydraulic fracturing. the shortcomings in the legislation have been well identified: inadequate adaptation of the water framework directive, effluent management to be integrated into the mining waste directive, integration of hydraulic fracturing into the environmental impact assessment directive, etc. even if the moratorium has not been passed, i am satisfied that the european parliament has shown its willingness to frame fracking and to respond to these challenges. finally, let us not forget that this debate also concerns greenhouse gases, and that the exploitation of shale gas is likely to exacerbate climate change which is already taking place. the energy transition can't wait.
in writing. - i voted with difficulty and with some reservations due to the complexity and novelty of the matter, convinced that unconventional gas could have a role to play in the future eu energy mix, provided it is subject to a full assessment of its potential benefits and risks. i would stress that any support for the exploitation of unconventional gas sources must take into account legal issues, life cycle assessment, environmental impact and economic viability.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be a good summary of the work of the committee on petitions. throughout 2011 there have been numerous requests related to different issues such as, for example, the increase of transparency in the functioning of the european institutions, as well as the issue of spanish law of costs on which numerous requests have been received. the report also stresses the need to simplify the administrative processes for petitions by european citizens in order to facilitate access to parliament's committee on petitions. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the chichester report gives a comprehensive description of the work of the committee on petitions. the work of this committee is very important in linking european citizens directly to the work of this parliament. my vote against is not caused by the activities of the committee on petitions, of which i am also a member. it is intolerable that the spanish state should publicly congratulate itself on the implementation of the costas law. while it's true that the housing bubble has burst and the pressure on our coast has been eased, there's no reason for optimism. the situation is also too similar to that described in the auken report, which was approved by the same committee and by the whole of the european parliament. i therefore voted against, because the work of the committee on petitions must serve to reflect the most up-to-date situation of the problems which are before us, offering solutions. and these solutions, for example, for the sanitation of the galician rivers, involve sending research missions that can later be used to offer a solution.
in writing. − against. besides the joint amendment on same-sex couples, the rest of amendments were from our group, notably, on the spanish ley de costas (coastal law). the law is currently under revision, at present before the spanish parliament. according to both petitioners (mainly property owners) and main environmental ngos, their concerns have not been taken into consideration – besides a process with minimal effective public participation – so they are not happy with it. the law, which makes unveiled reference to the need to foster economic activity whenever possible (therefore leaving rather aside the primary objective of environmental protection), will be adopted as the pp has absolute majority, but we have the opportunity to send a timely signal from the ep if our amendments are adopted in the report. the pp is trying to use the established working group on the topic – originally intended to establish good cooperation with spanish authorities – as a legitimatising tool towards citizenship. consequently, it has been so far rather a hoax, for which even the epp petitions’ coordinator is quite critical.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, in this debate we should be talking about the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council for the 2013 budget, but unfortunately this is not the case. there has been no agreement because we have not even begun to discuss the subject. we're still waiting for the council to decide to pay the outstanding bills for 2012. president schulz has said this to you and the rapporteur for the 2013 budget, mr la via, has also said it to you. we in parliament have a very clear and logical position: we cannot start talking about the next budget without first solving this year's problems. and the problems this year are bills, worth 9 billion euros, which are still unpaid and which directly affect many citizens in all countries. mr mavroyiannis, 500 workers in my country are not eligible for aid from the european globalisation adjustment fund, but the same applies to 512 workers in italy, 1 052 in austria, 1 000 in finland, 1 900 in romania and 303 in denmark. but it's not just them. students in europe are not sure whether they will receive erasmus grants or not. researchers in companies and universities don't know if they're going to get paid for the work they've done. why would you do that? because the council cannot agree to pay, and that is unacceptable. that is why we have not been able to make any progress in the negotiations and why we are now waiting for the european commission to come forward with a new proposal. the commission knows what parliament's position is, and we hope that its proposal will be in line with ours. we believe that there is enough room in the budget to allocate more resources to some european programmes. we believe that the sme, research and innovation programmes in the seventh framework programme or the training and mobility programmes for our young people must be strengthened. we have already defended it in other debates. in reality, there is not much difference between parliament and the council on our priorities and i believe we can reach a satisfactory agreement quickly, but where i see the greatest difficulty in reaching agreement is, once again, on the level of payments. if we do not want to see programmes paralysed, students worried about their scholarships or regions and towns waiting for the money they have been promised, the commission cannot reduce its proposal. in any case, it should be increased, because today we know that neither the november nor the december bills will be paid in 2012 and that we will need more money for 2013. after two years of promises and broken commitments, parliament cannot accept, once again, a joint declaration in which the council commits itself to putting more money in if necessary. we won't make the same mistake again. if we are faced with a budgetary standstill today, it is because the council is not fulfilling its obligations. mr. mavroyiannis, i hope you're able to find an agreement. it's in the hands of the council.
blue card question. what is it? mrs andreasen, do you consider the invoices issued by the member states and sent to the european commission to be a clear proof of reliability, or not?
mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating the commissioner, because she is a tireless person - i have faith in her - in the work she is doing in this area, especially as the subject we are dealing with is so complicated. and beyond that, i have to say this. there is one area, madam commissioner, where it has been shown that the possibility of reducing emissions is certain - we are seeing that it has a positive impact on growth, competitiveness and therefore on job creation - and where europe is a technological leader and where europe is developing a large number of actions with specific objectives: this is the area of energy efficiency. i have said it on other occasions and i insist on it again now. i believe that doha, as was the last cop in durban, represents a great opportunity for europe - the european union - to lead the development of an energy efficiency roadmap, with objectives that can be of different nature, with concerted actions that are agreed, with deadlines, etc. this is really something that needs to be structured and articulated in a clear way and the european union has there, like no one else, an indisputable chance to lead a roadmap for energy efficiency.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will be brief. you will all know from what i said earlier that i agree very much with the sense of urgency, and i see we are getting much additional evidence that we did not actually need – although i hope it will help the world to try to act more speedily, for that is what we need. mr jørgensen said we could not negotiate with nature. unfortunately that is so, although i think it might be easier than the negotiations in doha with 194 countries. there have been so many wake-up calls that the question is, do we really need any more? personally i hope that what president obama said last week at his first press conference after having been re-elected president, when he admitted – and he used the word ‘admit’ – that the us had not been doing enough on climate, means he will now change that. i hope that in doha we will start to see signs of that being reflected when it comes to international negotiation. corinne lepage asked about innovative financing. here i would refer to this month’s ecofin council conclusions, of 13 november, when aviation and shipping revenues were mentioned, as were carbon markets: so there actually are some alternative sources of revenue. last year in durban, we established a new market mechanism and we hope now that it can come into action. i strongly agree that we need innovative sources to generate the kind of amounts we need. to echo mr eickhout, what will the eu say about financing? i hope that when we come to doha, on behalf of the commission, i will have an adopted, agreed multiannual financial framework (mff) so that i can point to the fact that there is substantial new money for climate action, for access to energy and for many of these things, with a particular focus on africa – a point that was mentioned by mr eickhout. what i cannot guarantee is what will come from the various member states but i know that, last year in durban, some of them – germany, for instance, denmark and others, and i think the uk too – indicated they are now ready to come up with more financing for 2013. i was told i could make that point in council. i think mr eickhout will not be surprised if i say i have tried to make that point pretty clearly many times, so i hope it will work out. finally, many of you have mentioned that europe should show leadership: should lead by example through what we do ourselves. i must say that i am quite proud of the pile of proposals from the commission that we have at this stage here in parliament, and also on the table for the council. to mention just a few, they include the back-loading proposal, the carbon market report with the structural options for the carbon market, the lulucf (land use, land use change and forestry) proposal that mr arsenis mentioned, the cars regulation and the f-gas regulation; and we had the proposal for a 20% climate mainstreaming of the entire mff. i tell you, this is no small thing. it is a new way of thinking – if it actually gets through. the energy efficiency directive has been adopted but it is now very much up to the member states to actually implement it. we also have the energy taxation directive. so there is no question of our not providing the initiatives, but we now need to get them through our various institutions so we can incorporate them into law. in these final seconds i would also like to highlight the fact that, in the commission’s work programme for next year, we have announced that we will prepare a 2030 initiative on both climate and energy, so i hope we can have some useful discussions about the target we will need for 2030. my very last point is that i know some will say ‘yes, but this is costly and we have an economic crisis’. but what the usa has just experienced with hurricane sandy is merely one example of what we will see increasingly, and further proof that continuing with ‘business as usual’ carries a very high price tag. the droughts we saw in the usa this summer, the flooding in many areas of the world: this is what it takes to convince people that, yes, the green transition does not come for free, but in the end it pays off, even economically and growth-wise, compared to simply continuing with ‘business as usual’. the more people realise that, the better off we will be in this discussion. doha is not going to be an easy conference but we actually managed to get very substantial things out of durban despite all the predictions. i hope that doha can deliver some new progress and keep us on track to construct the international agreement. although it can never stand alone, we need it, and doha will be the next stepping stone.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president – vice-president martínez – you will allow me to take this opportunity to present to you my personal greetings and tell you of my emotion at the unique honour and pleasure of taking the floor under your chairmanship. i am very much encouraged by this afternoon’s debate, which shows that both our institutions and, of course, the commission very much share the same objective and are working along the same lines. i have a brief comment on stepping up to 30%, a subject raised by a number of speakers. the cornerstone of the eu contribution to the global goals is set out in the eu climate and energy legislative package. the eu has adopted an ambitious, independent target for mitigation to reduce emissions to 20% below 1990 levels by 2020. by continuing to both fulfil its present commitment and affirm its willingness to move conditionally to a reduction of up to 30%, the eu hopes that its example will help stimulate stronger commitments from other major economies. furthermore, the eu advocates a mid-term review in 2014, offering the possibility to review the level of ambition. it is noteworthy that this review will thus be able to take into account the fifth assessment report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc). as on previous occasions, your support and outreach efforts to our partners worldwide in the run-up to the doha conference, as well as on the spot, are very much appreciated. may i just add that we have the privilege to have, in commissioner connie hedegaard and her team, the perfect synthesis of vigilance, knowledge of the dossier, vision and full commitment to make us rise to the challenge, along with the council negotiating team – to use our soft power and to lead by example, but without overlooking interdependence and the need for global and comprehensive effort. we very much look forward to working closely together with all of you in order to achieve the best possible outcome.
the resolution was tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, in accordance with rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure, and was signed by no less than six groups in the house, which shows the remarkable consensus that exists on a matter as serious as this. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mrs maria eleni koppa, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on enlargement: eu policies, criteria and strategic interests (2012/2025 (ini)) (a7-0274/2012).
mr president, one of the greatest successes of the union in the past decade has undoubtedly been the enlargement process. there are a number of principles that should govern, or should continue to govern, this process. i am referring to consolidation, conditionality and communication to the citizens. another important requirement is the union's capacity for integration. is this principle still in force, as mrs koppa's report rightly claims? will we have the resources in the future to finance common policies or cohesion? i ask this because the new financial perspectives propose deep cuts in the funds allocated to these policies and to others as well. is this the european union we want for the future? is that the way to prepare for the next expansions? paradoxically, sometimes the strongest advocates of enlargement are those who want to cut the union's budget the most. and we are also seeing the difficulty of the twenty-seven in taking decisions to deal with the serious crisis and strengthen economic and monetary union. sometimes it takes a long time to implement policy decisions and this is not a good example for future enlargements. it is possible that some of our own citizens cannot understand how this european union, with its many difficulties, can face the new challenges of enlargement. a small note: i very much welcome the fact that mrs koppa's report incorporates the idea of creating a specific subject on the union in schools. it is an ideal way for the younger generations to get to know the union better and also to get to know the enlargement process better. and one last point: i cannot support the deletion of the footnote to paragraph 28; its content is the same as that used by the council and the commission.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs maria eleni koppa for this excellent report, which has received the support of a large majority in the committee on foreign affairs. despite the crisis, we socialists are firmly in favour of the enlargement policy of the european union, because it has proved to be the most effective tool for consolidating democracy and stability in the applicant countries. we have also spoken out against alternatives to accession, such as privileged partnerships or other proposals that deflate the expectations of accession and its effects on democratisation, human rights and economic prosperity. in difficult circumstances such as the present, the lack of solidarity and populism threaten the project of social, political and economic cohesion which we must continue to build. that is why the committee on foreign affairs has already rejected a number of amendments which were intended to distort the debate on enlargement, and the commission has made it clear that any accession process which is proposed must follow the established procedures, will require the unanimity of the member states and, in no case, can it override the agreements, the constitutions and the treaties. and the european parliament should also respect and not ignore the terminology of the united nations, the council and the commission in relation to that footnote which refers to kosovo. if we all respect the law and ensure legal certainty, we can make progress on this policy, which we believe in deeply.
mr president, growth, increasing strength and prosperity, and deepening the values of democracy are among the basic objectives of the european union, which is reaffirmed in this report on enlargement. i share it. i want, moreover, a united states of europe. to achieve this requires growing outward, but also inward. and that is incompatible with the expulsion of people who want to remain citizens of the union and who form companies that meet all the requirements to remain so. there are nations in europe that are more prosperous and modern than many member states, with distinct economic identities, with their own languages and their own history, which is often intensely european. some have found a satisfactory form of representation in certain states; others have not. democracy is about solving problems, and this is one of them. a political problem that needs dialogue and agreement, not imposition and much less threats.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, honourable members, we are now in the eighth day of the current conflict in gaza and israel. i am sure you followed developments last night as closely as i did and with the same hope that a ceasefire would be attained. regrettably our hopes proved to be premature. while i understand there were indeed intensive negotiations on a possible ceasefire, to come into effect at midnight last night local time, the announcement of such a truce was postponed. negotiations have continued today – it is vital that they succeed. the united nations security council met last night to discuss developments and will resume discussions later today in new york if need be. throughout the day i have also been receiving reports of a terrorist attack on a bus in tel aviv. this has to be condemned in the strongest possible terms. i wish a speedy recovery to those injured. the european union reiterates its strong and unequivocal condemnation of all forms and acts of terrorism – irrespective of their origin, cause or motive – and its unwavering commitment to the fight against terrorism. the situation on the ground is very volatile and attacks continue in both israel and gaza. we reiterate our call for an urgent de-escalation and cessation of hostilities. the diplomatic focus is now on a ceasefire as a stepping stone to a longer-lasting solution. in order to achieve this, the high representative/vice-president is in continuing close contact with key players in the region and elsewhere. during the last few days she has been reaching out in particular to egypt, the usa, israel, the palestinian authority, the un and the arab league. she co-chaired the eu/league of arab states ministerial meeting in cairo, where she was able to speak to key players including egyptian president morsi and arab league secretary-general elaraby. she has remained in constant touch throughout. as you will have seen, on monday 19 november the foreign affairs council agreed conclusions on the violence in gaza and israel and on efforts to achieve a ceasefire. the european union calls for a ceasefire and an immediate de-escalation, given the continuing violence over the last few days and mounting civilian losses. the eu has strongly condemned the rocket attacks on israel from the gaza strip, which hamas and other armed groups in gaza must cease immediately. we have also stressed the need for all sides fully to respect international humanitarian law. protection of civilians should be strictly ensured at all times. by recalling the eu’s overall position on the gaza blockade, this text represents a balanced consensus but also reflects clear and strong eu positions on the current situation and demonstrates a unity of purpose in the present crisis. the situation in gaza has placed egypt at the heart of international efforts to bring about a solution to the crisis. on monday, the eu stated its support for the efforts by egypt and others to achieve a rapid ceasefire. it also welcomed the mission of the un secretary-general to the region and supported him in his efforts to bring about peace. the eu now stands ready to do what it can to encourage all sides to ensure the implementation of a ceasefire. honourable members, a ceasefire is in the interests of both sides, and not least of the civilian population, which has already taken a heavy toll over the past few days, enduring both physical and psychological trauma. the loss of civilian lives on both sides has been tragic. the humanitarian situation, already precarious in gaza, has inevitably taken a turn for the worse, but humanitarian support is still available. the vital border crossing for goods at kerem shalom has remained open throughout the hostilities. for the time being, food is not in short supply. the world food programme continues its food distribution activities. gaza’s limited power supply has not been seriously affected but clean water and drugs are in short supply. the eu will continue to play a leading role on the humanitarian front and already dedicates a considerable proportion of its palestinian assistance programme to the gaza strip. this includes not only our support to the united nations relief and works agency for palestinian refugees – the majority of the gaza population being palestinian refugees – but also direct financial assistance to support vulnerable palestinian families. the eu is also providing support to sustain vital social services, including in the health sector, and is engaged in upgrading the palestinian side of the key gaza-israel crossing at kerem shalom, through which so much of the support on which gaza depends must pass. the eu stands ready to reactivate the european union border assistance mission (eubam) at rafah, once political and security conditions allow, to ensure its third-party role at the crossing point there, as set out in the 2005 agreement on movement and access. fully recognising israel’s legitimate security needs, the eu continues to call for a complete stop to all arms smuggling into gaza. at the same time, it also continues to call for the immediate, sustained and unconditional opening of crossings for the flow of humanitarian aid, commercial goods and persons to and from the gaza strip. gaza’s position remains unsustainable for as long as it continues to be politically separated from the west bank. the eu reiterates its readiness to assist in the reconstruction and economic recovery of gaza, in close partnership with the palestinian authority and the israeli government, in line with un security council resolution 1860. honourable members, the recent upsurge of violence in gaza and israel, against the background of a seismic shift in the political landscape of the middle east and north africa, shows how fragile the region continues to be. moving towards resolution of the israeli-palestinian conflict would help to stabilise the entire region and would reward those who are committed to non-violence. the eu has a strong interest in fulfilling palestinian aspirations for statehood and israel’s aspirations for security, including against regional threats. a ceasefire, if properly implemented, would help but would not be sufficient. the need to find a sustainable solution for gaza is more urgent than ever – a long-term solution which will not lead to yet another round of violence. to that end, and as soon as is practicable, the eu will intensify its contacts with its partners within the quartet, and with other key players, to explore all possibilities for creating a new dynamic in the peace process. honourable members, i have just been informed that egypt confirms an agreement on a ceasefire. we will seek confirmation of this information but i wanted to let you know without delay about this development.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once again the images of the horror in the middle east are shaking our consciences. more than 35 children out of a total of 140 victims in the gaza strip; six people executed as alleged collaborators of israel; several israeli citizens also killed by hundreds of iranian-made rockets; an attack on civilians perpetrated today in tel aviv; 45 000 reservists mobilized; and a ceasefire that seems to be confirmed, as mr cohn-bendit has just told me, after a frantic diplomatic activity: mediation by the president of egypt; calls by the president of the united states; the presence in the area of the secretary-general of the united nations and the secretary of state of the united states; the mobilization of the ministers of the arab league; a french-qatari plan; and a threat from syria on a resolution in the united nations security council. of course, mr president, i think that there are too many words in this case, and the situation is so serious that, beyond the impotence and frustration caused by the already-manifest words of condemnation from the council of ministers the day before yesterday, i think that the most important thing is to achieve and consolidate a ceasefire, guaranteed by the united nations, which protects the civilian population and which fundamentally supports the moderates. the alternative, mr president, we already know, from 2008: 1 400 victims. and we know perfectly well that the circumstances are not the most favourable: fragmentation and division of the palestinian cause, elections in israel in january and, of course, nuclear escalation in iran. the european union must therefore, madam president-in-office of the council, firmly support this ceasefire to avoid the worst. but let us not deceive ourselves, mr president, there will be no stability in the area, there will be no stability in the region, if we do not tackle the root causes and the injustices that fuel the hatred and violence in this tortured region of the middle east.
mr president, we are debating today four reports which represent a revitalization of our common security and defence policy. it is a clear sign of the conviction that our security and defence have a clear european dimension, in the face of the eurosceptic minority sectors, which also dominate this house. the report by mr danjean - and i would like to thank him for his spirit of consensus-building during its preparation - contains important contributions from the s&d group. among others, references to effective multilateralism, the principle of the responsibility to protect or the concept of human security. and we would like to see these aspects included in the possible review of the european defence strategy. we have also noted that a strong common security and defence policy is also in the interests of our transatlantic alliance. i should also like to highlight another challenge which is taking on important dimensions for our global security. it is the issue of cyber security and cyber defence, which is covered in a report which we are also debating today and whose suggestions we hope will be included in the new european cyber security strategy. in a context of severe economic and financial crisis, where member states are being forced to cut their defence budgets, european projects of 'pooling and sharing' are needed most. it is therefore more important than ever to strengthen the role of the european defence agency, which is being very much challenged today. i conclude by saying that we can relaunch european security and defence and do so with president van rompuy's draft for the council in december 2013. thank you very much to all four speakers.
mr president, my group, with its minority views, wants to challenge the current direction of security policy, not only in the european union but also at international level. we believe that the time has come to demilitarise security, and nato, one of the pillars of defence of the european union, is going in the opposite direction. since 1999, at the washington summit, it has approved a strategic concept that allows military intervention outside the united nations security council and, in addition, to give a military response to phenomena such as terrorism and organized crime, which were until then subjects of civil response. we believe that militarization is not what the world needs; it is not the answer that those 70,000 people who die every day because of helplessness, while the world spends four billion dollars a day, require. the time has come for demilitarisation and we therefore want to give a different direction through our minority reports.
member of the commission. − mr president, first i would like to thank all rapporteurs for their reports and not only the rapporteurs of course, but also the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on fisheries as a whole. it is obvious that a lot of work has been done here on very important issues and i am very happy to see that the fisheries policy draws the attention of more and more members of this house. i do not have the time unfortunately to refer to all the issues raised by the rapporteur, so let me focus on some points. my first point concerns the multiannual plan for the baltic salmon stock. of course, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr gróbarczyk, and i would like to say that we welcome parliament’s endorsement that this stock should be managed according to the principle of maximum sustainable yield. it seems very easy now to refer to maximum sustainable yield, but i would like to remind all of you that it was not like this years ago; we have made progress here and we have done this together. i also welcome the ideas mentioned by the rapporteur that would increase the protection of the stocks like higher smolt production targets in rivers. this is very very encouraging and we have to work together to see this excellent work implemented. with regard to the proposal on transitional technical measures: i would like to thank mr gallagher for his work but i would also like to underline that he has made a tremendous effort to make this agreement possible in time. this is very important considering the time constraints he had to face. i would like to say that the discontinuation of these measures (even temporarily) would have negative consequences for the conservation of some stocks and for vulnerable marine habitats, so i am very pleased that agreement was found on this proposal. difficult and technical issues were handled by all of you and i think that we have achieved a high-level of conservation for these stocks. let me move now to the shark finning proposal; i think that we all agree – we have to agree, after all, because this is the reality – that we have to eradicate the horrendous practice of shark finning and protect sharks better. we need to do that one way or another, but we really need to do that. our current rules allow shark fins to be removed on board and these rules are very difficult to control in practice. we cannot have a civil servant on every boat; this is impossible. even if we wanted it, it would be impossible. so these rules do not provide sufficient safeguards to avoid the removal of fins and carcasses being discarded. i believe that rules that cannot be controlled in practice are just not good enough. it is therefore essential that all sharks are landed with their fins still attached, without any derogations. i would like to remind you that many important shark fishing nations have already adopted fins-attached laws. we are not the first here. we are the followers rather, and their fishermen, the other nations’ fishermen, have shown that this is possible, while remaining profitable. so we can also do it. some european fleets have also voluntarily adopted a fins-attached practice without complaining about additional costs. regional fisheries management organisations are also moving towards fins-attached rules. so there is a general tendency here. i hope that this house will support the commission to close any remaining loopholes in the rules. let me now say a few words on a very important own-initiative report: the report about small-scale fisheries. small-scale fisheries are extremely important in union fisheries. i do not have the time to refer to figures but they are in the report one way or another. so i would like just to say that over three out of four european vessels are small-scale coastal vessels, generating jobs and income, and contributing to the social fabric of our coastal communities. so it is not only about money, it is also about the real life of coastal areas. small-scale fisheries are also likely to benefit the most from a reformed fisheries policy based on a clear and time-bound obligation to manage stocks at maximum sustainable levels and to eliminate discards. why? because these small-scale fisheries are the most vulnerable segments of our fisheries industry and if the fish are in good health, then the small-scale fisheries can take advantage of it. they are also likely to benefit from the introduction of fish stock recovery areas in territorial waters. i am therefore looking favourably at the idea of fish stock recovery areas as a conservation tool. small-scale fisheries can also take advantage of these, too. our reform proposals place a special emphasis on small-scale fleets: we relieve small vessels from administrative and unnecessary financial burden; we differentiate fleet capacity management; we provide specific support from our new financial instrument. i would like to thank mr ferreira for his report, which highlights many important elements and i would like to say that some of these elements are already there in our reform proposal, for example the better funding, for example, the market rules. very important for small-scale fisheries. i am grateful for your constructive contributions on the role of small-scale fishing in the future policy and i would like to underline that i really am trying, the commission is trying, to change the pattern here and really help small vessels. last, but certainly not least, i would like to congratulate mrs lövin for her report on the external dimension of the common fisheries policy. this is a very important issue. this is a part of the reform we are trying to introduce and i can say also that i am really proud that parliament and the fisheries committee, and almost all of you, have supported it. this report is also important because it looks beyond the common fisheries policy into other policies, other areas that have an important impact on the sustainable management of international fisheries resources, such as trade and foreign policy. so, here about trade and foreign policy, there is a lot of work to be done with other services, with other committees, and i am very happy that we have gone through it. i am very pleased that parliament shows broad support for bold external action for sustainable fisheries management worldwide. this will improve our standing as an important fishing and market entity for sound and efficient fisheries management. we need this worldwide image. european fisheries policy needs this new image. it will also strengthen our position in negotiations with third parties to move forward the sustainability agenda and the global fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. as you know, last week, the commission initiated a procedure against eight countries for failing to address illegal fishing. i would like to thank parliament for its support on this file. so we have to move to the international handling of this very important issue and we need the credentials, let me put it this way, we need the credentials of a new international aspect in our fisheries policy to do so. i also welcome that the report endorses the need for bilateral agreements; this is very important. we need the bilateral agreements and we need a new generation of new bilateral agreements that would lead to a stable and transparent framework for both our partners and our industry. in particular, i appreciate that parliament supports our proposal that the european fishing industry should take over a more important financial share of the costs when acquiring access rights to non-eu fishing zones. i would like once again to thank all the rapporteurs and the speakers for their contributions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. - mr president, commissioner, as rapporteur for the committee on regional development, i am sorry that you agree that small-scale fishing, coastal fishing, shellfish and extensive aquaculture are socially, economically and environmentally sustainable forms of fishing. i also agree with you that small-scale fishing is in a precarious situation. i come from a seafaring country, a fishing nation, and that is why it is the most vulnerable and must be protected in a specific way. we also need a new definition of small-scale fishing. this definition is outdated. the reform of the common fisheries policy must not be at the expense of small-scale fishermen, shellfishermen and nets.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, these are difficult times for the european fisheries sector. the serious economic crisis in europe, the shortage of marine resources to make fleets economically efficient and the negotiation of agreements which are often unacceptable because they are harmful to their interests, make the sector look to the future with some concern. if we add to this the council's shameful blocking of the multiannual plans and its attempts to find subterfuge to breach the treaty itself - which we will not tolerate in any case - then you will agree with me that the outlook is not very encouraging. we are discussing a number of important issues, including the external dimension of the common fisheries policy, which allows the eu fleet to fish on the high seas and in third country waters, and through which the european union also exports principles of good governance, taking the lead in defending sustainability, ensuring food security in the least developed countries and effectively fighting illegal fishing. the european union's fish consumption is dependent on imports from third countries by 60%, and one of the objectives of the external dimension of this policy must therefore be to ensure the continuity of economic activities in high-altitude fishing. we do not agree that fisheries agreements contain an exclusive clause which prevents the european fleet from fishing in the waters of a third country when the european union has failed to conclude a new protocol, and we have examples. we also do not approve of punishing the temporary re-flagging of eu vessels when they change their flag to access the waters of a third country - even if that country complies with all international rules - in the event that no agreement has been reached on access to resources; nor do we approve of the fact that the fees that shipowners have to pay for a fishing licence to access the fishery resources of a third country are sometimes tripled without a cost-benefit impact analysis. in my view, the proposal to bring fish stocks above the maximum sustainable yield, rather than at the maximum sustainable yield, that is to say, to cut fishing opportunities beyond what is necessary, also makes no sense. for these and other reasons, our group has tabled an alternative motion for a resolution which, in our view, improves the rapporteur's proposal. finally, madam commissioner, once again the council is absent, fisheries is such an important sector that it deserves that the three institutions should be able to agree and work in the same direction. on behalf of parliament, it will not stay.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, sharks have been in our seas and oceans for over 400 million years, at the moment, because over 100 million sharks are slaughtered every year for their fins. the darkest part of this story is the flap-cutting, a cruel practice wherever it is found, and which is therefore banned in almost the entire world, including the european union. but the existing european regulation contains some gaps which we had to correct. it was a necessary, reasonable and, a priori, simple process. it was to require that all sharks be landed with their fins naturally attached to the body. we have had a hard time getting here, too much, and i honestly don't understand why, and thousands of citizens don't understand either. when the european commission did the only sensible thing that could be done, namely to remove the exceptions and special permits that benefit, above all, the spanish and portuguese fleets, our role as parliament should have been simply to support and reward that proposal. however, we have been debating this for months and consequently prolonging the agony of sharks. i hope that tomorrow we will correct this misunderstanding, as various organisations, including the shark alliance, oceana and humane society international, have asked us to do.
mr president, it is the european fishermen who are putting their face, hands and efforts into a way of doing and transforming that encourages good practice in all the world's seas. that is why we are obliged to make unregulated fishing a bad business. this requires that all the fish we consume in europe meet the same requirements as those we require of our fishermen and producers. in addition, our professionals need to be more involved in the negotiation of fisheries agreements and there needs to be more control, so that our contributions in third countries boost industries with the values and practices that characterize us, and a coherent and pragmatic european strategy, to prevent predatory fleets from occupying the spaces we leave when certain fisheries agreements expire. i therefore support these contributions on the external dimension of the common fisheries policy, but i also support the need for a place in it for small-scale and artisanal fisheries, which are more integrated into their natural and social ecosystem. its professionals offer high quality products and deserve to enjoy the value of their work at sea and on land. a flexible and realistic definition of small-scale fishing, a strengthened role for the regions and social sensitivity to recognise the occupational diseases of women in auxiliary trades are basic conditions for maintaining population and activity in many coastal areas.
mr president, i shall concentrate on mrs patrão's report on shark fishing and take the opportunity to congratulate her on the excellent work she has done and the cooperation she has offered. that said, there is not much more to congratulate, especially the european commission, because this proposal is a clear demonstration of what should never be done in fisheries. their sectarianism and lack of consensus clearly contradict the principles of the next reform, in particular as regards the bottom-up decision-making process, through consultation 'both the sector concerned and civil society', in order to achieve a compromise. commissioner, a compromise on measures which seriously affect the future of a fleet cannot be a compromise between you and the ngos. you have taken your stand exclusively on their side and this is a subordination of the commission to the interests of a part of civil society, but not a commitment to those concerned. i have personally been very involved in this matter and have worked hard with the industry to convince them of the need to compromise their initial positions so that no one could object to the final proposals. i have tried the same with the ngos, but it has been impossible because they knew that the commission was on their side. and why, then, would they want a commitment? i, commissioner, in connection with what you have said on the international level, have just come from the icca meeting where every single resolution on sharks has been rejected, including one like the one you are proposing: your debate did not last a minute and, moreover, the european commission did not even say anything. so, commissioner, do you think that in these circumstances it is necessary to condemn a fleet, just in the face of competitors? wouldn't it have been much better to wait for the iccaa to decide something? and i ask you to say publicly that finnish is not practised in the european union. this is the result of the interventions that have been made in the campaign of lies that the ngos are developing. and i ask you to say whether there is finning or no finning in the european union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the socialist leader of the spanish delegation, i want to express my concern at this time, because we have to reach an agreement on the reform of the common fisheries policy, and it is precisely to those who have the majority in the council and in this parliament, to the conservatives, that i want to convey my reflection. i believe that we must carry out a fair and balanced fisheries reform; a reform which respects fisheries resources, social and economic sustainability, the environment and the marine environment; a reform which is fair to fishermen who, for centuries, have used selective, low-impact fishing gear and who take care of the sea, because it has been and is their main source of life. 80% of the european fleet is engaged in coastal, artisanal and shallow-water fishing. whole regions live off it, it shapes our culture and our cuisine, it guarantees high quality fresh food and, moreover, it generates a lot of employment. we must therefore take account of this reality, encourage the training and integration of young people and bring equal pay to women. finally, the shark finning is not justified economically or socially.
member of the commission. − i shall now make a few comments, firstly on the baltic salmon proposal. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work, which was recognised by all the speakers. just two clarifications: regarding the problem of predators – yes, i recognise that there is a problem; and yes, we are trying to find concrete data and figures about the size and severity of the problem. but at the end of the day, mr gróbarczyk, i would like to remind you and all the members that this is a national competence. this is not a competence of the commission. this is a competence that comes from the environment directive, and so it is a competence of the member states. we are now trying to find out the impact – the result – of the action of these predators, but this is all we can do. i would just like to clarify this situation. as regards recreational fisheries – specifically salmon – a lot of the members of this house have referred to this problem. yes, there is a problem. we have some studies which have references saying that, for example, recreational fisheries in the baltic take maybe 20% of the whole salmon catch. can you imagine 20% only from recreation fisheries? but recreational fisheries are a competence of the member states, so what we can do is to ensure that what recreational fisheries are doing is really recreational: catching fish for consumption and not for sale. however, the member states have to cooperate on this, as we cannot touch these issues. i would like to give you this clarification. regarding the technical measures regulation, i would like just to mention that – as a lot of members of this house have said – it would make the rapporteur’s life, the committee’s life and our lives much easier if we had the regionalisation provision implemented. a lot of details that are in this regulation could then be decided by the regional bodies, so this would be a great comfort to the rapporteur and to all of you. that is why i would like to urge you to support the commission’s proposal for regionalisation. i am afraid that in the council meetings i cannot see a lot of progress concerning this issue. i do not want to finalise the discussion now, but we have a lack of progress in the council. so really i think that, with regard to the reform, parliament can give us some strength to defend this regionalisation policy. concerning shark finning, i would like to reassure you that all the consultation procedures were followed with regard to our proposal. we did not come here without having a consultation process lasting many months. it is a process which is very well organised under very strict rules – the commission rules. we also have an impact assessment. we try to prepare as well as possible, but, at the end of the day, we have to realise that the great majority of the members who spoke on this issue understand the need to close all the loopholes we have in our legislation. i hope we will be able to put an end to this harmful practice. i think i have to repeat that a lot of other countries are doing the same, and they have fleets that are profitable, so please help us. of course we need to work with our industry to find the best solutions for the implementation of this legislation. with respect to small-scale fisheries, there were a lot of interventions here. this is reasonable, since it is a very important issue. i would like to welcome the comments about women in the fishery sector, and we can do a lot of things here with regard to the funding ideas we have. concerning young people, i would like to inform you that, during the last council meeting, i announced that we are going to amend the commission’s proposal for the next financial perspective in order to give some incentives to young people to enter the sector. this can help create a more positive climate in our coastal areas, which must be our focus. i agree with you that this has to be our main target. i would also like to mention here that we need support in order to go for measures that can help coastal communities in a more constructive way. let me give you an example. i am very sorry that we have missed the opportunity to have a mandatory label with the date of catch on fish products, because this would help our local fisheries a lot, because the consumer would then be informed about fresh fish and could perhaps make a different choice. nevertheless, we are going to continue, and there are other market measures which can help the local communities. i can also say to you that i very much welcome all these ideas about more selective gears coming from small-scale fisheries. we are going to ringfence a great deal of money with regard to the next financial perspectives for innovation and more selective gears. a final remark about the external dimension: i can understand that this is a very complicated issue. i have also underlined that this is an issue which comes with trade policy and foreign affairs policy. we also have to concentrate on our relationships with other countries – sometimes these are countries which are not very well developed. we therefore have to bear in mind that we cannot go there to fish in the way we used to some decades ago. let me make it clear: we need to respect these people and their sustainability issues. we have to fish only for the surplus; we have to pay adequate prices, but they also have to contribute to this change, otherwise we will not be able to fish outside european waters. it is as simple as that. we have to follow the same rules, i agree with you – all of you who intervened highlighted this. i also understand that we need to move further beyond our agreements, in order to find a way to maintain a level playing field between our fishermen and the fishermen of other countries. this is the case, for instance, in the mediterranean and in other areas where we have to work side-by-side with fishermen from other countries. we have to be sure that our fishermen who respect the rules have a level playing field with third-country vessels. this will not be easy, but we need to have a solid policy to ensure that sustainability issues concerning our waters are respected, in order to embark on international cooperation on combating illegal fisheries. this is what we are trying to do. i would just like to remind you that we have some problems with our fisheries agreements. this is something which has already been mentioned, and it is not only an issue of policy. it is also an institutional problem, because cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission is not at the level we would like it to be. we are facing additional problems with regard to the agreements owing to the reluctance of the council to give parliament a say on this. we have to focus on these issues; we have to work together – i agree with you. i would like, mr president, to thank all the members; after all, we did have a positive discussion tonight.
mr president, i believe the commissioner is also here to answer our questions. and i have asked for a public statement as to whether fin-finning is a common practice in the eu fleet, as many members have said. i want her to say whether that's true or not, really.
madam president, we would like to thank the president of the court of auditors and the commission for their presentation. the indices show that there are a number of issues that need to be reviewed and we all need to be very vigilant, each in our own sphere - the parliament's committee on budgetary control, the president of the court of auditors and the european commission - to ensure that the results are always the best possible. and the member states have a very important role to play, and i think they have a very important role to play, if we are to achieve the best possible results and image in the distribution of funds. the expenditure must also be as appropriate as possible, which is why we are all here.
madam president, we are faced once again with the paradox of having managed to control and keep error-free 96% of the eu budget, in one of the most complex years in terms of its distribution, implementation and amount, but which, on the other hand, never exceeds 1% of the union's gdp. so, despite having achieved a very complex, fine-tuned and developed control system, thanks to the fruitful dialogue between the court of auditors, the european commission and this parliament, the fruits of which will also be seen in the discharge exercise with which my colleague, mr jens geier, is concerned, we regret, once again, that we have not managed to break out of a kind of victim circle. however, i think that our concern this year is about much more concrete issues: the mistakes of the member states, for example, rural development. we knew that the risk would increase if we abandoned direct aid to rural development from the cap. the risk increases in the member states. however, we know from regional development that when tight controls are applied and demands are increased, as has been seen in the field of cohesion policy, the states also react. then we should refine and develop this control in the member states and perhaps one day we should also compare what their audit bodies are doing here. and surely, mrs. sinclaire, we would have some interesting surprises. as for the commission's mistakes - mr šemeta, you have a part to play here too - we are very concerned about the mistakes in research policy, because, as this is precisely one of the pillars of our way out of the crisis, we need you to explain to us how we are going to solve these mistakes.
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission, i would like once again to thank parliament for its work on this file. i would recall that a number of the amendments which are a matter of concern to the commission relate to matters which are covered by the framework agreement between the commission and the parliament. the commission is, of course, fully committed to implementing the 2010 revised framework agreement between our institutions and believes that this agreement offers the best place to address parliament’s concerns, rather than this particular piece of legislation that we have discussed today. in any event, i took careful note of your remarks and i will pass them on to commissioner de gucht. the commission looks forward to engaging in discussions with you in the trialogue, with a view to finding an agreement on this proposal. i can assure you that it is a priority for the commission.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon today.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on measures to protect the eu market against imports of chinese products, particularly photovoltaic panels, at abnormally low prices, by vital moreira, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000162/2012 b7-0366/2012).
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would first of all like to thank the members for their very substantive interventions, and also for their overall support on this very important issue for european competitiveness, european industry, european workers and european citizens. the standards applied by the commission in trade defence matters are among the highest in the world. we practise a fact-based trade policy in defence of european economic and social interests, and in the interests of the competitiveness and sustainability of the european economy and european industry. as in all cases, the commission will thoroughly and objectively assess the facts presented by all economic operators concerned, in order to come to an impartial assessment of the need for trade defence remedies. with specific reference to registration, the complainants have formally asked for the registration of imports before the adoption of provisional measures. the commission is currently considering whether this request meets the legal conditions enshrined in the basic anti-dumping regulation. concerning the speed of the procedure, the commission formally received a complaint from the industry at the end of july 2012 and took the next steps as early as september 2012. that was done rapidly and expediently. we are bound by legal deadlines imposed by the wto and by eu legislation. the speed of a case is determined by its complexity and size, as well as by the need to carry out investigations properly and accurately, in order to ensure the maximum effectiveness of further measures. rest assured that my colleague, commissioner karel de gucht, is fully aware of your concerns. i will pass them on to him, and he will recommend appropriate action to the commission with the best interests of eu industry firmly in mind. trade defence instruments are part and parcel of the commission’s toolkit to keep international trade fair and, where necessary, to improve market access abroad for eu exports. we can use wto channels, as we have done, including during the present commission mandate. i will pass on other specific concerns as well to commissioner de gucht. finally, as for the renewable energy sector, the european union will continue to pursue fair and liberalised trade globally. while you would prefer this to happen under the wto framework, the commission is also open to a multilateral agreement on renewable energies, such as the proposed sustainable energy trade agreement. i am referring to many interventions in today’s debate. you also see that our bilateral trade agreements will also tackle both tariff and non-tariff barriers in the renewable energy sector. the commission is also working specifically on the promotion of this relatively new sector through the renewable energy directive, which was adopted in 2009. this directive has established a regulatory framework that has been conducive to technological development, cost reductions and innovation through economies of scale. europe must indeed be in the front line of developing this very important sector as regards the greening of our industries and as regards our being in the leadership role in the next and current industrial revolution. some of you called for a joint industrial strategy. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that just a few weeks ago, in october 2012, the commission adopted a communication on an integrated industrial policy for the globalisation era which focuses on competitiveness and sustainability of european industry. it outlines a very important policy debate, which i trust will also be conducted in this house. we have to do everything we can in order to ensure competitiveness and a strong future for european industry, for european workers and for european union citizens.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. − in favour. salmon in the baltic sea are doing poorly, for many reasons. salmon is not entirely a competence of the eu, since its spawning areas are the rivers and streams of the ms, but several eu management measures exist - total allowable catches for sea fishing, minimum landing sizes, closed seasons, etc. there is also a ban on the use of driftnets to catch salmon. the com has proposed an eu-wide management plan, which by and large we welcomed. both in envi (carl schlyter opinion) and in fish we tried to strengthen the proposal, by phasing out fishing on the sea, introducing a larger minimum landing size for both salmon and trout (to prevent mis-reporting), increasing the objectives for natural spawning of salmon in wild rivers, etc. a number of our main proposals were accepted (more in envi than in fish, of course) but we lost on the phasing out of fishing on the sea itself and the common minimum landing size for salmon and trout. we were successful in improving the scope of the plan to include recreational fishing, a major part of the fishing mortality that until now has not been regulated (at eu level).
in writing. − in favour. greens support the unity of the political forces of parliament, vis-à-vis the reluctance of council to live up to the lisbon treaty. we had differences with regard to the omnibus-i, relating to the procedures for anti-dumping cases that we wanted to be better controlled by parliament. this made us to abstain in the final vote on omnibus-i. regarding omnibus-ii, we are somewhat unhappy with the treatment of gsp as mostly in the reign of implementing acts. however, given the need to send a clear sign to council that we want them to finally deal with the issue, greens should vote in favour of the omnibus-ii report of parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a step forward in the european union's strategy for the conservation of fishery resources. the report seeks to amend the previous regulations to include new marine regions which were not included in the previous regulations, by defining very specifically the protection areas and their species. the report extends the pursuit of fishing for fish below the size specified as suitable for not harming the reproduction of the species. this report includes a number of amendments on the authorisation of fishing techniques for different species, authorising those gear which do not endanger juvenile marine organisms and do not deplete stocks. i voted in favour of this report because it introduces technical improvements which will allow greater conservation of europe's fisheries resources.
in writing. − against the report. technical measures are the detailed regulations concerning fishing activities, such things as mesh sizes in the nets, the minimum size of fish that can be brought ashore, closed areas and seasons where fishing is prohibited, etc. most of them are collected in a few regulations limited to technical measures, but for historical reasons related to the lisbon treaty, there is a series of technical measures in a separate regulation that is time-limited and scheduled to expire on 31 december 2012. since this series of technical measures has already been renewed twice, this time, the com has decided to incorporate them into the primary regulation on technical measures (reg. 850/1998). in its proposal, it also took the opportunity to clean up a few obsolete provisions. unfortunately, the com produced its proposal very late, requiring that both csl and the ep work very fast. in favour on postponing the vote on the legislative resolution.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report despite the fact that it contains important measures for the conservation of the shark population because it is causing losses in the fisheries sector. it is very important to conserve species such as sharks through sustainable fishing practices that make it possible for fishermen to avoid environmental excesses. but the fisheries sector has been facing a serious crisis for many years, with the result that the small-scale fishermen are at risk of disappearing in many member states. the obligations which this regulation will impose will lead to even greater losses in this sector, and the risk of the disappearance of this activity will be increased, since only large vessels will be able to carry the entire animal, while small vessels will not be able to meet this obligation. although it contains a number of good practices to ensure the survival of various shark species, i did not vote in favour because of the impact on small fishermen and therefore on the communities linked to fishing.
in writing. − in favour of the amended proposal (which is not the original defended by the rapporteur). an unequivocal eu ban on the odious and wasteful practise of shark finning will finally become reality after today's vote. meps have voted to prohibit the removal of shark's fins on board, making it mandatory to land sharks with the fins naturally attached. this will allow the eu ban to finally be implemented without exceptions. despite eu legislation on shark finning existing since 2003, loopholes enabled this barbaric and wasteful practise to continue. thankfully, a majority of meps has voted for an outright ban, and rejected attempts to preserve these loopholes. " every year millions of sharks are caught, their fins hacked off and the bodies simply discarded to meet the demand for shark fin soup in asia. this is not only a senseless waste, it also puts pressure on threatened shark species. banning shark finning in european fisheries is an important step but the eu should also advocate for the practise to be outlawed at international level.
in writing. - i am in favour of effective control to ensure compliance with the ban on finning practices (fining and discarding of the rest of the body) in sharks. i share the general agreement on landing fins and bodies in the same port. however, i do not think it is justified that the fins should be landed on the bodies. the latter option, rejected at the recent meeting of the iccat, entails unnecessary additional costs in the storage, handling, processing and early marketing of catches, which may jeopardise the viability of a significant segment of the sector. i support and advocate control at the port of landing through independent certification, based on parameters adopted by official institutions. a reasonable solution, and one that the industry has embraced. it would set a valuable precedent for the global control of fishing activities. only if it didn't give the expected results, he would have to resort to a more burdensome formula. i am also pleased to note that the ferreira reports on small-scale and artisanal fishing and the lövin reports on the external dimension of the common fisheries policy, both in the field of the reform of the cfp, contain many of the amendments i had tabled.
in writing. - this is a very sensitive vote because of the nature of the matter and the way the discussions in the committee on fisheries have developed. i voted in favour of the european commission's proposal because i am absolutely against the culling and therefore in favour of the full exploitation of the shark. i have supported the exception provided for in article 4 because i consider it to be an appropriate solution in the current circumstances of the sector in the iberian peninsula. the exception could be maintained for a while. it would also be desirable for the industry to carry out a thorough study of the overall costs involved. in any case, all this must be supplemented by an effective system of controls in ports of the fisheries actually carried out, and we must conform to international recommendations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe, correctly, that the council has no power to block the commission's decision on this matter. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is the law on international child abduction. the commission is concerned that all member states comply with the treaty, so that they do not refuse accession to any new state, as provided for in the convention. the council is preventing the normal development of decisions taken in this respect, whereby the commission is trying to ensure compliance with the law in force and is trying to prevent any state from refusing to accept accession. the council also refuses to consult parliament to make progress on the matter because of legal disagreements. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − in favour. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is of great importance, as it establishes a system allowing participating states to cooperate in order to find a solution to international child abductions, by determining which courts are competent and which law is applicable when deciding where the child should reside. the convention thus provides for the speedy return of abducted children to their proper country of residence. the convention only applies between countries which have ratified or acceded to it. whereas the accession of new states must be accepted by those states which are already members in order for the convention to apply between them. the acceptance of accessions is therefore of the utmost importance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i think it rightly points out that there are risks to the guarantee of fundamental freedoms. in this resolution, parliament called on the council and the commission to ensure that any amendments to the international telecommunications regulation are compatible with eu law, ensuring that the internet is a free and neutral space where human rights and fundamental freedoms are respected, in particular the freedom of expression and assembly. considers that neither the international telecommunications union nor any centralised institution can be adequate bodies to exercise the role of internet regulatory authority, and regrets the lack of transparency and inclusiveness of the world conference on international telecommunications (wct-2012) of the international telecommunications union. this report has expressed concern about the decisions that various private actors gathered at this conference intend to unilaterally regulate internet freedom and impose its conditions on citizens. i have therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − in favour. we call on the council and the commission to ensure that any changes to the international telecommunication regulations are compatible with the eu acquis and further the union’s objective of, and interest in, advancing the internet as a truly public place, where human rights and fundamental freedoms, particularly freedom of expression and assembly, are respected and the observance of free market principles, net neutrality and entrepreneurship are ensured. we also regret the lack of transparency and inclusiveness surrounding the negotiations for wcit-12, given that the outcomes of this meeting could substantially affect the public interest.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because it reflects the extreme importance of the matter and the consequent concern of parliament. climate change, which was denied by a large number of members of parliament a few years ago, must now be one of the main items on the political agenda of the international community in order to mitigate the disastrous effects that such change can produce. the resolution stresses the role of the european parliament in the forthcoming doha negotiations, insisting that parliament must give its consent to agreements reached with third countries or international organisations. the resolution calls for the eu to continue to play a leading role in reducing emissions in order to mitigate climate change. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − in favour. un framework convention on climate change (unfccc) 18th session of the conference of the parties (cop-18) and the eight meeting of parties of the kyoto protocol (mop-8) will be held in doha, qatar 26.11.-7.12.2012. the doha meeting is expected to make progress on the durban platform of action, setting work programme towards agreeing a ‘protocol, legal instrument or agreed outcome with legal force under the convention, applicable to all parties’ at the latest by 2015. the mop should also adopt the formal amendments to establish a second commitment period under kyoto protocol. the envi adopted resolution is mainly a positive one, it calls for/stresses, inter alia: new protocol to ensure mitigation action in line with below 2°c carbon budget, means for the required climate action in developing countries, and robust compliance and clarity and agreement on comparability of effort for non-kp developed parties.?
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because i do not share the political agenda which the european union demands of the candidate countries in its enlargement. the report contains very positive aspects, such as the inclusion, for the first time, of the fulfilment of various social aspects for countries wishing to become candidate countries. the report says that the candidate countries will have to comply with the rules of the various treaties in force in europe on social and labour issues, as well as the eu's charter of fundamental rights, in order to avoid any form of 'social dumping'. but on the other hand, this report still contains a certain political ambiguity which may cause problems for the admission of some states. in particular, as regards the peaceful settlement of disputes, the invasion of territory cannot be considered a 'dispute' and therefore the case of cyprus and turkey would raise the lack of jurisdiction of the european union. that is why i did not support the report.
in writing. − in favour. in accordance with article 49 teu, any european state which respects and remains committed to the promotion of the values of human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, may apply to become a member of the union; whereas these values are the foundation of the european union itself and guide its action on the international scene, and must be respected and upheld by all member states. enlargement has been part of the eu agenda since as early as the 1960s; whereas since the first enlargement in 1973, the eu has grown gradually, its membership rising from the six founding members to the current 27 (soon to be 28); whereas a number of other countries aspire to eu membership, as a guarantee for a secure, democratic and prosperous future.
in writing. - i voted in favour, but it should be clear that all existing references to kosovo, whose unilateral independence i reject and do not share, are excluded.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because i consider that it condemns the violence of israel and the militias in gaza on the same level. i condemn the launching of missiles at israel, which, apart from causing almost 100 times as many deaths, is in breach of all the resolutions of the international community and is the main threat to peace in the region. israel is violating all un security council resolutions, occupying the legitimate territories of the palestinian state, continuously violating its sovereignty and the human rights of the palestinians. all these violations occur with impunity, since war crimes against civilians will not be prosecuted. this allows israel to act unilaterally without any control from the international community. this situation is unacceptable and it is not possible to condemn both sides in the same way as if they had an equivalent responsibility for the violence that occurred during the days of the military operation. that is why i did not support this resolution.
in writing. − in favour. the resolution on the conflict in the gaza strip has been adopted with an overwhelming majority (447 + and 113 -). thus, the ep supports abbas' application for un non member observer status for palestine. it is a real success for us since this para was taken from our resolution. next week the application will be presented at the un general assembly.
in writing. - this report is a step forward in the european union's strategy for militarisation. the report seeks to advance the implementation of the common security policy by taking an important step towards the eu playing a military role in the world to defend stability or human rights. the report also seeks to promote the use of cooperation funds for military purposes, arguing that there can be no development without stability, and to extend civil-military cooperation to security and defence policy. this report does not seek other avenues for negotiation and peaceful resolution of conflicts, but only extends the military route as the union's response to possible world conflicts, linking military spending to the credibility of international politics. i therefore regard this report as a real boost to the eu's strategy of militarization and have therefore voted against it.
in writing. − abstention. we tabled amendments contesting the following issues: strategic autonomy, defence budgets, need for more military action, extension of atalanta,eutm somalia, military action in north mali and alternatives, eu border control mission in libya, procurement of drones, european buying act for arms, defence research, eu budget and defence agency, military and civilian chains of command and hq. almost none of them were adopted.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a step forward in the european union's strategy of militarization. the report is based on an analysis of the implications of the mutual defence and solidarity clauses. the text suggests that an attack by turkey on cyprus could lead to a clash between the defence obligations of eu countries and those of nato countries. these analyses of both clauses include unarmed attacks, such as cyber-attacks, or even intervention in the event of internal unrest that threatened a government. the report aims to extend the military powers of nato and the eu member states themselves. the escalation of military powers can only increase the risks to the european civilian population; only through demilitarisation can we guarantee greater security for the european population. i therefore regard this report as a real boost to the eu's strategy of militarization and have therefore voted against it.
in writing. − abstention. in general we supported the idea of a report addressing the issue of these two clauses. the problem with the rapporteur and also the epp group was that they have no clear objectives and strategies. as a result, the report is extremely vague and ambiguous. for greens there were two issues which were particularly problematic: 1) in our view there is a misunderstanding regarding the existing structures and capabilities of csdp. the rapporteur, supported by epp and alde argued that csdp can be one instrument for the implementing both clauses. and (2) more problematic is the link to nato and the vagueness regarding european military capabilities. the report does not clarify how nato art. 5 and the mutual assistance/defence clause should be linked or not linked politically and militarily. in our view we cannot (mis-)use the eu assistance clause for (indirectly) integrating countries like ireland, austria, sweden etc into nato and its nuclear weapons arrangements. in addition, the vagueness regarding european military capabilities is unacceptable because it does not include or exclude integrating french and british nuclear weapons into the implementation toolbox for both clauses.
in writing. - this report is a step forward in the european union's strategy for militarisation. the report seeks to advance the implementation of the common security policy by taking an important step towards the eu playing a military role in the field of information technologies and the internet. the report also seeks to boost civil-military cooperation for security and defence policy in the field of cybersecurity and calls on member states to increase their research expenditure in this field. the report does not seek to find other avenues for negotiation and peaceful conflict resolution, but only to extend the military route to the internet as the union's response to possible conflicts related to cybersecurity. the report also calls for funds for international cooperation to be linked to compliance with cybersecurity clauses, and for increased cooperation with nato. i therefore consider that the report is an attempt to promote the eu's strategy of militarization and have therefore voted against it.
in writing. − abstention. there is no real legitimisation for a sede report on cyber security because both cfsp and csdp do not really focus on cyber security and even less on cyber defence. even nato is very reluctant to develop a cyber defence policy and operational capabilities. the nato cooperative cyber defence centre of excellence in tallinn is a rather small facility with a few researchers. but it is a matter of fact that estonia has been attacked by russian government sponsored hackers which were able to put the country in deep trouble for some days back in 2007.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a step forward in the european union's strategy of militarization. the report is based on the sound assumption that the effects of climate change may exacerbate existing conflicts. but the solution to these conflicts cannot be an escalation of the arms race that increases the capacity to kill to infinity. the report also proposes european budget funds for military purposes, closer cooperation between nato and the european union, the inclusion of military elements in climate change policy, as well as its integration with energy policy. i therefore regard the report as a real boost to the eu's strategy of militarization and have therefore voted against it.
in writing. − in favour. the original idea was to go further with practical recommendations such as the nomination of an eu special representative on climate security, the establishment of a formal working group on climate security within the external action service and the creation of an eu corps of military engineers. but these proposals failed due to the resistance of epp/ecr/gue. surprisingly the report and specifically its practical recommendations faced strong opposition by the epp group. the reason behind seems to be a classical misunderstanding. the commissioner for humanitarian aid and crisis response, georgieva (member of the epp family), perceived indrek’s report as strong criticism. it was not possible to communicate the fact that indrek’s report is not about commission policies but about csdp for which the commission is not competent. however, the report is being strongly supported by both the s+d and alde group whose shadow rapporteurs tabled amendments which went well beyond indrek’s proposals. the report was also very much welcomed by a variety of actors ranging from high ranking military personnel to grassroots civil society organisations and humanitarian agencies.
in writing. - i was unable to vote in favour of this report because i consider that human rights are not sufficiently respected and promoted by the government of kazakhstan. the negotiation of a new agreement will increase economic cooperation between the two sides, which has been increasing since the last agreement in 1999, but will also introduce political cooperation. in this respect, we consider that there are serious doubts about the observance of human rights in the country. with the death of 17 protesting miners in december 2011, as well as several members of the political opposition, we believe that there are substantial doubts about universal rights in that country. that is why, although it facilitates communication and contact between the two peoples, i could not vote in favour.
in writing. − in favour. the eu and kazakhstan aspire to deepen and broaden their relations. the peoples of the eu and kazakhstan should benefit mutually from closer cooperation. the conclusion of the new pca negotiation should provide a comprehensive framework for cooperation based on human and democratic rights, as well as opportunities for socio-economic development and for the necessary political and economic reforms. the social and economic development are closely interconnected. the suspension of the application of any pca has been used only rarely and partially by the council, it remains a viable option in case of serious and documented breaches of human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it involves a commitment to an activity capable of exploiting fishery resources in a socially and environmentally sustainable way. the reform of the common fisheries policy has completely ignored the reality of small-scale and artisanal fishing and has focused on the large fishing companies which cause the greatest environmental damage to the seas. the report makes a number of proposals to support and promote these traditional fishing gear which are closely linked to the socioeconomic fabric of many european territories and their communities. the report proposes the creation of specific support mechanisms for this activity within the framework of the common fisheries policy, which is essential to ensure the survival of this activity and the sustainability of the areas traditionally used for fishing in europe. i voted in favour of this report because of the need to defend traditional fishing.
in writing. − in favour. still, the principle problem with the report is the list of actions that should be subsidized, including start-up packages for fishermen (in an over-capitalized industry!), construction of new fishing ports; storage for fish that cannot be profitable sold; paying fishermen to not fish during closed fishing seasons (as distinct from periods following natural or man-made disasters such as the prestige). the report is also ambiguous about the need for the public purse to modernise and renew the fleets. in 2 rcvs (para 38, 40) we demonstrated our opposition to subsidies for temporary cessation of fishing and sudden increases in fuel subsidies. neverthless. these paragraphs were not defeated so remain in the final resolution.
in writing. − in favour. the eu fleets fish far beyond the waters of the eu and imports fish from far and wide, so the cfp must cover those activities. the com published a communication on the external dimension of the cfp as part of its reform package and the greens were given this report. the external dimension is a vast subject and the com treated only two aspects - bilateral fisheries agreements and international fisheries management organisations. we added the aspects of foreign investment, banking, illegal fishing, joint ventures, trade, flags of non-compliance, and many others. since the basic regulation of the cfp has provisions on the external dimension, we used the report as a means of getting political support to include strong legal provisions in the cfp reform. the draft report was well received in general with favourable comments on the principles. as often happens, though, our specific proposals were less enthusiastically received and generated 284 amendments, many of them trying to weaken or negate the thrust of the report.
in writing. − in favour. several of our amendments were adopted. in the first para, we stated that ‘lead candidates for commission presidency expected to play a leading role in the parliamentary electoral campaign, in particular by personally presenting their programme in all member states of the union’. and also ‘recommends that each member state propose both a female and a male candidate for the next college of commissioners’.
author. − mr president, the human rights situation in iran is constantly deteriorating. numerous cases of ill-treatment, torture, medical neglect and death in iranian prisons have been documented. sattar beheshti, a 35-year-old blogger, was arrested on 30 october by iran’s cyber police in a raid on his mother’s home in robat karim. they also confiscated a number of his personal belongings, including his computers. mr beheshti’s family tried to get information from security and judicial officials about his whereabouts and the reason for his arrest. no answer was given until 6 november, when police officials told the family that the blogger had died in custody. the authorities did not provide any explanation for his death. this is why in this resolution we strongly want to demand an immediate investigation into the circumstances of sattar beheshti’s death in custody and call for the prosecution of the officials responsible. we also have to recognise the right of the family to clarify all the circumstances surrounding his death. we also need to remember the execution, on 22 october, of ten iranians accused of drug-related offences. we are concerned that they did not receive a fair trial and they were subjected to torture during their detention. probably, in many cases, none of this is new. the problem is that we are being forced once again to ask the iranian authorities to ensure that prisoners are not subjected to any torture or other ill-treatment and that they are allowed to have regular access to lawyers of their choice and medical treatment when needed. let us not forget that iran has also ratified the international covenant on civil and political rights.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i am sorry that the commission is not present in this debate. with regard to the association agreement between the european union and central america which we are discussing today and which the house will vote on tomorrow, i would like to say first of all that this is the first agreement of this kind that the european union has concluded with a regional bloc: we have not been able, mr president, to conclude any agreement of this kind with either mercosur or the andean community, as we shall see in the debate we are going to have on the agreement concluded with colombia and peru. i also believe, mr president, that at the same time this agreement allows the countries of central america to play in the first division of the agreements which the european union has with third countries. i would also like to say, mr president, that these agreements have a threefold nature: firstly... mr president, i would ask you to suspend the sitting until there is a little more order in the chamber.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i hope the commissioner will be able to attend the debate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as i said earlier, mr president, this association agreement between the european union and central america has, in my view, two fundamental features: firstly, it is the first agreement of this kind that the european union concludes with a regional bloc, and secondly, it is an agreement that places the countries of central america in the first division of the agreements that the european union has with third countries. the association agreements, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, have three aspects. firstly, a political dialogue; in this case, the european union supported the efforts made at the san josé political-ministerial dialogue, which, thanks to a remarkable mobilization of central american political talent, was able to pacify an isthmus that went through very dramatic and very difficult circumstances. and i am pleased to note, mr president, that the european union has shown its readiness to contribute to the dividends of peace, understanding, harmony and reconciliation in that region. this association agreement now allows us, mr president, on the basis of common values and the democratic clause, to continue and deepen this path of dialogue and to try not only to maintain this dialogue in a bilateral context, but also to proceed with the extension of the bilateral agenda, turning it into a global agenda, to take account of the challenges that are arising today on a planetary scale. on the commercial side, this is a fourth generation agreement which aims to promote a progressive and reciprocal liberalisation of trade, which will create important opportunities for the citizens of the european union and central america, will offer products from this region great advantages, as they will have access to the eu market on preferential and very favourable terms - a market with great consumer power despite the crisis - and will consolidate and improve the existing facilities within the system of generalised preferences. and a side of cooperation and development aid, where the european union shows that it is not a selfish europe and that it remains the main donor of development aid, by contributing to the resolution of the problems that still remain in the region in relation to social cohesion, democratic institutions, security, respect for the environment, support for infrastructure, education, etc. i would not like to end my speech, mr president, without mentioning two subjects which i consider important. firstly, this ratification process has exposed major shortcomings in the eu decision-making process: the negotiations for the conclusion of this agreement were concluded in may 2010 and only after more than two and a half years will this house, by virtue of the powers conferred on it by the lisbon treaty, be able to speak. i believe, mr president, that this delay is undermining the credibility of the european union and, more seriously, is cutting off important opportunities, not only for the union but also for our partners, at a particularly difficult time such as the one we are living through with the crisis. i therefore believe, mr president, that we should give it some serious thought and try to improve the procedure in future. secondly, i just wanted to say that i just got back from panama. it is a country which the world economic forum has just placed among the forty largest economies in the world, it is the country with the lowest unemployment rate in the region and it is an economy which, with the enlargement of the transoceanic canal, has become a very important logistical, commercial and investment platform. it is therefore urgent that the european union should open a delegation in this country. finally, mr president, i thank the alternate rapporteurs of the committee on foreign affairs for their contribution, as well as the rapporteurs of the other committees, and i hope that, with the same majority as that adopted in the committee on foreign affairs, the house will ratify this agreement tomorrow, which will bring important benefits to the european union and to the countries of central america.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the european union and latin america are natural allies, with ties anchored in a great convergence of history, culture and also values. the association agreement with central america is the union's first regional agreement and i believe it is a clear support for the process of integration in central america and latin america in general. as already mentioned, the agreement is based on three pillars: political dialogue, trade and cooperation. as regards political dialogue, i believe that the agreement is in line with the european union's support for central american peace, democracy and the defence of fundamental rights, which began in the 1980s; on trade, i welcome the achievement of a predictable framework of legal certainty and the progressive expansion of the exchange of goods and services, thanks to the creation of a wide free trade area; and in the field of cooperation, the agreement will be a valuable support for the efforts needed to promote social cohesion and sustainable development. mr president, latin america - and also central america - has been undergoing a process of development and transformation in recent years, which has left behind the long period known as the lost decade. furthermore, globalisation requires all of us to coordinate better to deal with global and international challenges and threats. and in this new environment, the agreement will make our relationship with central america deeper and more effective. in addition to bilateral issues, we will be able to tackle global issues, we will deepen economic and trade matters, far surpassing the unilateral system of generalized preferences, and social cohesion will occupy an important place in our cooperation, as the central american reality demands. and one last consideration: i welcome the incorporation of panama into the agreement. we are thus strengthening central american integration by including, as mr salafranca has said, one of the most dynamic economies in the region today. and to be consistent with that - as mr salafranca has also said - the union should open a delegation in panama, where we now have only a simple cooperation office.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to express the support of the socialist and democratic group and my staff for the ratification of this agreement, which, as has been said, has cost a lot of work, a lot of time, but which is an important piece in the framework of agreements that will constitute a strategic relationship between the european union and latin america. we already have agreements with mexico and chile. the agreement with colombia and peru will also be discussed today and will be put to the vote tomorrow. we now look at central america, a region which we supported - as has already been said - in times of war and constant violence, and in which the european union's collaboration and support were essential for peace and democratization. only one black spot: this parliament never condemned - i do so here, modestly - the coup d'état in honduras two years ago. but in general there is broad agreement among the majority groups in this house in favour of this trade agreement, political dialogue and cooperation, which will be mutually beneficial for both parties and which also has a component - although it has been said no - of guaranteeing human rights, environmental guarantees and other aspects which will also enrich the relationship between the european union and central america. central america may seem a small region, and it is, but it is a key region in latin america, because it is a group of countries whose stability, whose democracy and whose peace are of the utmost interest to us. we should continue with the mercosur agreement, the most difficult, the most comprehensive, but we are there. mercosur, now extended to bolivia, ecuador and, before, venezuela, is already a very big pie in all aspects of the word tarta. we must not fail to consider negotiation, commissioner, which is important, urgent and necessary to bring that agreement to a swift conclusion.
opinion of the committee on international trade and development - madam president, commissioner, my first words are to congratulate the rapporteur, mr salafranca, on the great work he has done. as the opinion writer for the agreement on the committee on international trade, it has been an honor to work with you, mr. salafranca. i firmly believe that one of the fundamental pillars for overcoming this deep crisis we are experiencing is the internationalisation of our economy and our companies. this agreement will undoubtedly facilitate that primary objective. in addition to being a good agreement for the european union, i firmly believe, also, that it is a great agreement for central america. it is a good agreement because it will help the regional integration of the countries it covers. it will also be key to improving social cohesion in central america and fundamental to the economic diversification of its producing sectors. i have had the opportunity to visit several of these countries and have witnessed the enthusiasm this agreement is generating in the region. besides, one of my last visits was to panama. and in it - and here i also join the rapporteur and mr mon, i have seen and witnessed the great demand for the european union to open a delegation there. i therefore ask the commission to please reconsider the possibility of opening a delegation of the european union in panama city. finally, i would also like to acknowledge the work done by the trade commissioner, mr de gucht, and congratulate him because without his cooperation and work, this agreement would not be possible today. i hope therefore that we can celebrate the approval of this agreement tomorrow.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me just go into a couple of questions that have been put to me, in which the association agreement has been criticised. i happen to be in good company with mr leichtfried, because i have also come to the conclusion that a number of remarks have been made in this debate that go exactly contrary to the text of the agreement. you can of course have different opinions on the use of a trade agreement and i am open for such a discussion; obviously my analysis and those of the gue/ngl group and even the greens will not necessarily be exactly the same. but having been a lawyer for 25 years i have always appreciated that, when you defend a case before the court you should stick to your dossier, you should stick to the facts in the dossier, you should not plead against the dossier as has been done this evening by a number of members such as ms grèze and ms zuber. it has been said here that there was no mention – for example with respect to indigenous rights – of the international labour organization convention 169 concerning indigenous and tribal peoples in independent countries. and yet this is explicitly in the agreement. i could give you a number of other examples in this respect. the same goes for money-laundering. incidentally we should differentiate between the agreement between central america and the european union, which is an association agreement, and the agreement with colombia and peru, which is a trade agreement. but both of those agreements – and i will come back to this if need be in the next debate – contain provisions just like those in the one with south korea, i.e. with a developed economy, that promote effective and transparent regulation notably ‘to ensure that international standards for regulation and supervision in the financial services sector and for the fight against money-laundering and the financing of terrorism are implemented and applied in its territory’. it has also been said during this debate that there is no sanction mechanism in this association agreement. again that is not right because the agreement provides for recourse to appropriate measures in case any of the parties has failed to fulfil an obligation under the agreement and this can as a last resort result in the suspension of the agreement. so i personally think this is a very balanced agreement. by the way, it is not so easy to balance an agreement between a highly developed economy such as ours and developing economies, as is the case for most of the central american countries, though not all of them – there are two economies that are already rather well developed. similarly, making a region-to-region agreement with a region that is not homogenous is not easy either, but i am very pleased that we managed to have a region-to-region agreement because i believe that especially for these kinds of regions, made up of multiple rather small states, it is very important that we have a region-to-region agreement so that it can also foster regional integration. so having said all this, i really recommend to the parliament to vote in favour of this agreement. yes it will – i hope it does – boost our trade, and we need some trade in europe, especially at this moment in time. for example in 2011 trade contributed 0.6% to our growth. if we had not had trade in 2011 we would have been in a recession in 2012. so i hope it will also help our economy but i am very much convinced that, because of its balanced nature, it will also help those economies develop. i agree with all those who say that we should have those two aims: we should of course work to the benefit of our own people; we should also make sure that our counterparts take as much profit from the agreement as we do.
the rapporteur. - madam president, as the commissioner has said, there are some clarifications that are necessary. how is it possible for a member of the green group to come in and say that the agreement does not contain a democratic clause and for another member of the green group to come in and say that the agreement does contain a democratic clause, but that the clause is not binding? the democratic clause is an essential element of this agreement. how can it be said that asymmetries are not taken into account when the different degrees of tariff disarmament are clearly manifest and cater for different degrees of development? there are some members in this house, madam president, who have the bad habit of telling our partners and friends what they have to do, but central american societies, despite what they may think, are mature enough to know what is good for them and what is not good for them, and they will express themselves through their democratic parliaments. and they don't want handouts, they don't want unilateral concessions, they want bilateral agreements. this agreement really represents an extraordinary opportunity and i therefore hope that, as has happened in the proceedings in the various committees, this parliament will vote in favour of it by a majority.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, six months ago we signed a comprehensive free trade agreement between the eu, peru, and colombia and it will deliver very significant benefits to all three partners. independent studies have shown that more than eur 500 million a year will be saved annually by economic operators in the eu, colombia and peru. in addition to lowering the trading costs of existing trade, the reduced tariffs, in combination with simplified, predictable and enforceable trading rules, will open up new trading possibilities and attract investments. for colombia and peru, this is particularly relevant for diversifying their exports. indeed, their domestic export promotion agencies have already identified numerous possibilities to diversify to non-traditional exports such as fresh asparagus, avocado, and electronic equipment, as well as services. this will help their national development agenda. for the eu operators too, the agreement is crucial to be able to compete, for example, with the us and canadian operators who already derive benefits from free trade agreements with these countries. but to fully deliver on the agreement’s potential, we must ensure its effective implementation, including its sustainable development aspects. we will regularly keep parliament updated on this. given the specific social and environmental situation in colombia and in peru, these provisions are all the more important. in this process we will count on significant input from civil society. indeed, as foreseen by the agreement, regular consultations will be held with relevant advisory groups and the public at large. the roadmaps on human, environmental and labour rights, which were adopted by colombia and peru upon your – parliament’s – request, will also contribute to the process that lies ahead. in this regard, i welcome the very constructive engagement of the two countries with parliament to elaborate these comprehensive documents. this is proof of the strong and unwavering commitment by the two governments towards a trade agreement which can help implement a sustainable development agenda. another manifestation of their seriousness is the fact that we expect both colombia and peru to have completed ratification almost simultaneously with the eu. this should allow us to propose a date for provisional application in the first quarter of 2013. i therefore invite the european parliament to support this agreement. let me completely subscribe to what the rapporteur, mário david, has just been saying: the impressive list of changes in labour legislation for the protection of fundamental rights, and also the way that they have tried to sort out their internal war with the farc over the last couple of years. i think that the european union and the european parliament in particular can take credit that they have contributed to that. it is quite clear that this evolution has been spurred by two drivers: on the one hand, of course, the political will of the colombian government as such and of their successive presidents; but also, i believe, the negotiation and ratification processes of these agreements with colombia and peru. i therefore believe that this is really a very valuable agreement not only for economic reasons but also for reasons of social development and the protection of fundamental rights and of the environment.
the committee on foreign affairs and security has adopted a number of amendments. - madam president, the committee on foreign affairs has voted overwhelmingly in favour of this agreement for two reasons: firstly, because it considers that this multilateral agreement between the european union, peru and colombia will be beneficial for both parties and will result in positive results for the european union, colombia and peru, in the sense that it will strengthen political dialogue, trade, investment and cooperation; and secondly, because it is part of a common logic, the logic of the fourth generation agreements, which, despite the ominous announcements that have been heard in this house, have produced positive results in the previous experiences of mexico and chile. and it is also, madam president, part of a common logic shared by europeans, peruvians and colombians: the logic of overcoming dark years and lack of freedom, the logic of seeking progress in favour of the vast majority and the logic of relying on a democratic spirit through which men are able to articulate and manufacture their own destiny. peru and colombia are two positive and active partners of the european union. the european union supported the democratic transition process in peru, with the election of alejandro toledo in 2001, followed by the election of alan garcía in 2006 and ollanta humala in 2011. we have had the opportunity to see this during your visit to this european parliament in strasbourg. peru is a country that has been leading the world economic growth, has substantially reduced poverty - although there is still much to be done in this area - and has surprised the world with the beauty of its natural landscapes, its culture and the dazzling creativity of its cuisine. colombia, madam president, is an open, vibrant, competitive economy, which speaks volumes in favour of the industriousness of the colombian people and the democratic spirit of its citizens, a majority of whom reject violence and who are resolutely in favour of peace. the words of the colombian singer juanes still ring out in this chamber when he told us in brussels that every text of literature or every word of his songs is and truly represents a song of life, a song of democracy. and i really think that these are societies that deserve this agreement. i believe, madam president, that at this time, before the ratification of this multilateral agreement between the european union and colombia, it is right to acknowledge the work done by mr durão barroso's commission in its first formation, commission barroso i, at a difficult time such as the vienna summit, when the mandate that the european council was to give ran into some difficulties. i think it is fair to acknowledge the work done by the present administrations of colombia and peru and by the administrations that preceded them. i think, madam president, that it is regrettable and i feel that bolivia and ecuador cannot join this agreement, although their decision and sovereign will must be respected, but the door remains open should they decide to join. this agreement, madam president, is a bet on the future, and i would like to end my speech with a quote that reminded us of a very important businessman from the european union who, quoting victor hugo, told us that the future is unattainable for the dilettante, unknown for the fearful, and an opportunity for the brave. let us be courageous in our commitment to this multilateral agreement and let us be able to make the most of all the possibilities which this agreement between the european union, peru and colombia offers us.
madam president, commissioner, to paraphrase the great writer mario vargas llosa, it could be said that trade creates bridges between different peoples. it unites us. it creates a brotherhood within human diversity and eclipses borders. this agreement is an example of this. after years of negotiations to achieve this, colombia and peru are in an optimal moment at the economic and commercial level which they must take advantage of, as they are doing, to support their economic and social development under the strict respect of the international order. i have no doubt that this agreement will serve to strengthen labour and human rights improvements at all levels and create new opportunities for the whole population. i insist, for the entire population. i also think it is fair to appreciate the great effort colombia has made to improve the human rights situation and the situation of its trade unionists. i think it is also a good deal for the european union. this is evidenced by the concern of the european business and economic community at the earlier entry into force of the trade agreement between the united states and colombia. it is also worth noting the milestone of having reached an agreement on bananas after twenty years of litigation, concluded by the wto itself, which will allow us europeans to adapt to the new competitive situation gradually.
madam president, i want to show my support for the signing of this trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru because it seems to me the most intelligent way of helping both countries in their reforms so that they can continue to grow and consolidate a regime of freedoms and rights that will bring stability and social justice. it is also an opportunity for both sides. europe will see increased space and security for its exports to both countries, especially in the machinery, automotive and chemical industries, which already account for 80% of european exports to the area; in the case of services, the sectors most likely to benefit will be telecommunications, construction, distribution and financial services. peru and especially colombia are making great efforts to normalize their coexistence and eradicate violence from their daily reality. i come from a country that has lived with the social and political problems that terrorism causes internally. the violence is also reflected in a deterioration of the external image and in situations of blockade and diplomatic boycott, which we are all very familiar with. i therefore do not want to subject you to double victimization and i know that the best way for europe to contribute to eradicating violence is to acknowledge every effort and every progress with much more than words. agreements like this are facts that are needed for peace, democracy and progress in latin america, and also in europe.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank mr susta for giving me the floor and say that in the heat of the debate we sometimes forget what we are talking about: we are talking about two democratic countries 'with flaws, they are not perfect democracies, because there are no perfect democracies, but they are pluralistic democracies'. it is not about popular democracies, of which we have a sad experience on this continent, but about pluralist democracies, with freedom of expression, freedom of association and freedom of demonstration and participation. i would like to hear the same demand that i am hearing here when we are dealing with trade with china, with vietnam, or the future agreement with cuba - which i am in favour of - that we put the same demands and the same level on those countries. and let us not forget that colombia and peru have suffered for many decades the scourge, the scourge of the real violation of human rights, which is the terrorism of the farc and the shining path, which has caused not seventeen, but thousands and thousands of deaths in the peasantry of those two countries. so let's put things in their proper place. i agree with this agreement which we are going to vote on tomorrow because it will help to fight better for human rights in those countries. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. no, of course not. you know the answer, it's a trick question. in fact, nobody in this parliament, least of all myself, can agree with the murder of trade unionists, but you have heard another speaker give the figure of seventeen murders this year; that is a lot, and every murder is a horrible crime. but three years ago, it was not seventeen, but 170. if there is a downward trend, we are going in the right direction. ideally, we should arrive at a time when there is no murder, and if there is, he should be punished and not go unpunished.
mr president, i believe that the european parliament should seize this opportunity and support the rapid adoption and implementation of this trade agreement so that all the contracting parties can benefit from it as soon as possible. this agreement gives us the opportunity to strengthen our twinning with two of the latin american countries which have experienced the highest growth in recent years. two countries which have expressed their willingness to move forward in their trade negotiations with the european union and which have shown that they are making great strides towards democratic maturity. the conclusion of this agreement will undoubtedly be beneficial in terms of competitiveness and the creation of added value for colombia and peru, and will contribute to the development and well-being of their populations. in the present context, the absence of such an agreement would mean the regional marginalization of these countries in a highly likely scenario of trade agreements with their nearest competitors, in addition to the future conclusion of an eu-mercosur agreement. the adoption of this agreement will undoubtedly bring important benefits for both parties in terms of goods, services and investment and will strengthen cooperation in areas such as research and infrastructure development. in conclusion, with the approval of this trade agreement, the european union will once again use trade as a motor for integration and the fight against poverty in developing countries. the european parliament should be in favour of inclusive and cooperative approaches between regions.
the question of the 'blue card'. mr president, mr howitt, are you aware of the statement by the colombian nobel prize winner in literature, gabriel garcía márquez, more in keeping with his political sensibilities than mine that europeans with a spirit of enlightenment could help their country more if they thoroughly revised their views? and to supplement this question, do you think, for example, that the murders of the conservative politician álvaro gómez or the liberal candidate luis carlos galán should be an obstacle to the ratification by the european union of this agreement, which has been ratified or approved by the 27 member states?
member of the commission. − mr president, this is a very interesting debate and one in which the protection of fundamental rights is obviously at the heart of the discussion, because the trade part of this agreement has not been criticised, at least as i heard it. there were some critical remarks, but i think that, overall, everybody seems to agree on the trade part of the agreement. a number of members of parliament are, however, questioning the human rights aspects of this under different topics and asking, for example, whether this agreement is going to facilitate money laundering. i can tell you that we have a number of instruments to counter that, for example the ongoing cocaine route programme, which is financed through the instrument for stability and includes a specific component that deals with money laundering and financial crime in latin america and the caribbean countries. the same goes, for example, for labour rights: some speakers seem to question whether they fall within the human rights clause. i was very clear that, insofar as labour rights are protected under the universal declaration of human rights, the preferences afforded under the agreement could be suspended on the basis of the essential status of the human rights clause. what seems to me to be the real question in this debate, however, apart from the trade aspect, is whether the agreement gives us leverage with respect to the human rights situation in colombia and peru. i believe that it does give us leverage, because the protection of fundamental rights is an essential element of the agreement, and we will look into that. by the way, i start from the assumption that you will ask me regularly whether i have been looking into it. then there is also the roadmap that has been proposed by the european parliament. that puts very clear obligations on the shoulders of the government in colombia and also in peru. i must say that they take this seriously. a couple of weeks ago i was in peru and this kind of roadmap is now part of the national political debate. obviously some of their opinions on certain topics differ from ours, but they take these obligations seriously. i truly believe that we can use this agreement both to foster trade, which i think is one of the most effective ways of improving economic well-being, and to contribute to the protection of fundamental rights – provided, of course, that we monitor this so that we continue to work with them. that is a matter of judgment, and in the speeches made across the whole spectrum of this parliament we see that it is not the preserve of one specific political group or a number of specific political groups. it is rather, i would say, a matter of individual appraisal of the potential impact of this agreement on the human rights situation. i myself am convinced that the agreement can make a positive contribution to human rights protection. when we look at the recent past, we see that the negotiations, and especially the period from the conclusion of the negotiations to the actual ratification – which i hope will take place tomorrow – have in fact been very fruitful in terms of ensuring better protection of fundamental rights. during that period governments, and especially colombia, have taken on additional obligations and have promised and given written undertakings – in, for example, the agreement to have such a roadmap – to live up to those obligations. very clearly, during that period, we had leverage on what was happening politically in those countries, and i think this is a very positive result. may i just make one personal comment to mr howitt. i remember that you raised a question concerning illegal surveillance. i remember that very well. you said that i had regarded it as a joke; i do not know where you get that idea from. i try to take my job very seriously and i must say that i cannot remember making a joke about this – quite the contrary. what i said regarding this illegal surveillance was that we should look into it. whether it happened or not, it is not within the competence of the european commission; it is within the competence of the member states, if they want to look further into the matter. however, i also said that we had learned from the governments concerned that this illegal police squad had been disbanded, and that if there were any illegal surveillance taking place at the european parliament, the belgian authorities would know how to deal with it. that is what i said, but i also made it very clear that this illegal squad had been disbanded and that this was confirmed by the government concerned. that is what i said; if you think that is a joke, then i can only conclude that you are not taking me very seriously.
thank you, mr howitt, but you are reopening the debate. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet ready to take a decision on the matter. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended for a few minutes and resumed)
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading by the committee on international trade on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down transitional provisions on bilateral investment agreements between member states and third countries (11917/1/2012 c7-0328/2012 2010/0197 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr vital moreira) (a7-0389/2012).
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission, i would like to convey our deep appreciation of the excellent cooperation with parliament in achieving a satisfactory compromise on the proposed bilateral investment treaties regulation. an intensive succession of trialogues has demonstrated that the ordinary legislative procedure allows a rich and constructive dialogue, resulting in strong and high-quality legislation. i would like to thank the members of the committee on international trade and its chair, professor moreira, for their engagement on this topic. the reason for tabling this proposal in the first place is that the lisbon treaty modernised eu common commercial policy. in particular, it transferred foreign direct investment to european level and entrusted the eu with a major additional policy tool. all the institutions agreed from an early stage that a new eu investment policy had to be based on existing experience in member states. indeed their investment agreements concluded over the last 60 years with further states constitute a precious acquis. at the same time it was, and still is, necessary to build a genuine eu policy. this regulation, as professor moreira rightly stated, is a key piece of legislation in the trade area, although not an easy one. the trialogues demonstrated that the matters covered by the regulation involved very complex legal and institutional aspects. the finalisation of the legislative process for this regulation in an early second reading would be a remarkable achievement for all of us. the regulation ensures legal certainty for european investors. they will be able to continue benefiting from the 1 400 bilateral investment agreements currently in force, as these agreements will receive a strong legal footing under eu law. these agreements will remain in force until they are replaced by union agreements. at the same time the regulation contains all the appropriate safeguards to ensure that these bilateral investment agreements will not create any serious obstacles to the smooth implementation of eu investment policy, which is a key priority. the adoption by parliament of the regulation will allow the union and its institutions to focus on the implementation of eu investment policy, by advancing eu-wide investment negotiations to ensure a very high level of protection for all european investors on a level playing field and in full consistency with the union’s wider trade and external policy objectives. i therefore call upon the european parliament to endorse the final agreement on the regulation establishing transitional arrangements for bilateral investment agreements of member states today. it is encouraging to note almost unanimous support of the international trade committee in its recent vote.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, as the rapporteur said, this is very important: the rules of the game laid down by the lisbon treaty for the forthcoming bilateral trade agreements; the european union will be responsible for legislating or for providing the criteria for the states to legislate. this is a balanced regulation, safe for the states, which harmonizes this area at the level of the european union. it has been difficult because the states have resisted interference in their own decisions because of the often delicate situations caused by bilateral agreements. but the specific objective is that the european union should make progress in investment matters and therefore there must be legal certainty in relation to investment. with this report we have found the key to guaranteeing and protecting the agreements of the member states with third countries, harmonizing the investments of the european union as a whole and ensuring compliance with the decisions of the arbitration procedures - which is also important - and we must accept them. the financial responsibility must also be sought in future agreements. this regulation has brought transparency, equality, and has made it clear that agreements are not abusive and that there are no breaches.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me just briefly react to a couple of remarks which have been made during this debate – a debate which demonstrated, i believe, that there is general support for the proposal we have been making and which, through the negotiations in the trialogue under the chairmanship of professor moreira, has resulted in the text which has now been submitted to you. there was a question by mrs oomen-ruijten asking whether there will be the same high level of protection as is found now in a number of bilateral investment treaties? yes of course; i believe that the prime aim of what we have to do in the future is to make sure that every member state receives exactly the same high level of protection as is now only reserved for a couple of countries. that is what you see when you look at the 1 400 treaties: you can see that there are a number of countries that are extremely well protected and in many cases this also has to do with the size of that member state. now what i see as the commission’s duty is to make sure that every member state, even the smallest one, receives exactly the same high level of protection as is now reserved only for a couple of countries. secondly, is this going to create a kind of eternal system? i do not believe so and let me give you two answers. first, we have been asking for a number of mandates to negotiate investment treaties with singapore, with canada and with india, and we have had no problem obtaining them from the council – after discussion of course, as is right and proper. but they have entrusted to us to negotiate this on behalf of the european union. now regarding the phasing-out: will it be an eternal system? no, precisely because member states are going to insist more and more that these bilateral investment treaties become european investment treaties, because that is how they will get the same protection. so it is the member states themselves who are going to insist that we make europe-wide agreements out of the existing bilateral investment treaties. that, i think, is the logic which lies in this regulation and that is also why the commission has agreed to walk away from its initial proposal of limiting the phasing-out to a certain number of years. it was not realistic; member states did not like it at all so it was not possible to have a regulation on that basis. but having thought this over, i believe it is much more likely that the dynamic will be of the member states wanting to have the same kind of protection that will bring us to a system – it will take some years of course – which is identical for all member states, and that is what i believe the commission should be aiming at.
it is very gratifying for the members, for the president and, i am sure, for the rapporteur to meet a commissioner who knows what he is talking about and who does not come here merely to read a paper that has been prepared for him. i think that is something that we all appreciate and it is important that you are aware of the esteem we deserve for the fact that whoever is speaking to us really has a very deep knowledge of the subject we are discussing. it forces us all to be better.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mr vital moreira, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing macro-financial assistance to the kyrgyz republic (com (2011) 0925 - c7-0521/2011 - 2011/0458 (cod)) (a7-0208/2012).
member of the commission. − mr president, a couple of members have asked why we are giving this macro-financial assistance to kyrgyzstan, a country that does not belong to our traditional neighbourhood because it is listed as being outside it, as you know. i would argue that, geostrategically, the kyrgyz republic belongs to our neighbourhood, but of course that is a political discussion. firstly, the criteria for the macro-financial assistance provided in exceptional circumstances include the possibility of approving operations outside the core area of mfa. in the case of kyrgyzstan, these circumstances include the eu’s strong political support for kyrgyzstan’s incipient parliamentary democracy. a couple of colleagues have drawn attention to the fragile state of parliamentary democracy in kyrgyzstan. i can only subscribe to that, but it is also a very fragile country, and i believe we should help fragile countries of this kind if we want to help democracy. secondly, there is an urgent need to contribute to maintaining economic stability in the country during this critical period to help the pro-democratic authorities prevent the recurrence of inter-ethnic violence, which has negative spillover effects on the neighbouring countries. kyrgyzstan is one of the countries in central asia which have no natural resources, and consequently it is largely dependent on trade with neighbouring countries. furthermore, there are problems regarding minorities in these countries, as has been mentioned with reference to the uzbek minority in kyrgyzstan. thirdly, there is the general orientation of eu assistance to provide more support for countries which act on the basis of human rights and democratic principles, however imperfectly. you do not have to convince me about that. that is the first aspect: let us say, the content of this decision on micro-financial assistance. then there is the institutional aspect: whether or not we can reach agreement between council and parliament as to what procedure should be used. this concerns relations between parliament and the council. however, the question arises why such assistance should fall victim to this struggle. in our view this is not justifiable and therefore we call upon the council and the european parliament to make a genuine effort to overcome the impasse.
mr president, after many requests from the industry and from the members of the ppe group, the commission agreed to change the entry price system to allow for better customs controls and for duties to be paid effectively. i am afraid that this amendment, which came into force on 1 september last, has not done much for the import of tomatoes from morocco. under the protocol signed, when the entry price of moroccan tomatoes falls from eur 46,1 per 100 kg, as it has, specific customs duties would have to be applied. but the reality is that during the past month the price has fallen from 42.4 euros, so they should have paid a duty of 29.8 euros per 100 kg. the volume of imports does not give any reason to believe that these payments have not been made. the commission tells us that control is the responsibility of the member states, but it can control import volumes and prices and, above all, whether the duties have been paid. we are asking for this today, once again, that the rules be enforced, that just as the spanish tomato sector - which is going through a dramatic moment - is in a state of disarray, so too should the moroccan tomato be enforced.
mr president, the dire consequences of the austerity policies of european conservative governments are widening the inequality gap to levels never seen in the union. and, what's worse, if anything, is that there's no future, no future in sight. in spain, the situation is even more serious. the spanish right has turned the crisis into a magnificent pretext to destroy the welfare state, cut back on education, cut back on dependency, cut back on research and health. education is the most effective tool to equalise citizens and reduce inequalities, and right-wing governments - especially spanish - are cutting back, endangering the future of our regions and our country. for example, in my region, cantabria, the budget for education has been cut by 6% for next year. unemployment and temporary work have also risen unevenly, with the top 10% of spaniards seeing their wages rise by 36% in the last year, while the payroll of the bottom 10% has fallen by €460. the gap between the two has increased by 3%.
mr president, last week the spanish government launched a new education law that represents an attack on the catalan language. the proposal tries to change the status of the catalan language in catalan schools to make it only of preferential knowledge, instead of its current status as the main working language. catalan political parties representing 80% of the vote in the last catalan elections completely reject this proposal. teachers’ associations, the unions, schools and even the catalan church deplore this proposal to marginalise the catalan language in schools. even the dean of the universidad complutense of madrid, josé carvillo, has today supported the present system, with catalan as the main working language for kids in school. the spanish government seems to be giving rational incentives for more and more catalan people to ask for an independent state inside the eu.
mr president, the employment crisis in europe deepens every day. europe accounts for 26% of the world’s total gdp. human capital is europe’s major strength. in this regard, investing in europe’s human capital plays a key role in generating economic growth. europe must invest in jobs for young people and strengthen investment in employment services, with active labour market policies. youth unemployment rates are unacceptably high. the situation originates in the weak link between the worlds of education and work. combining work and training opportunities is essential. the erasmus programme is a key element in the europe 2020 strategy. with its undeniable success, the erasmus programme has largely contributed to the establishment of a truly european generation of young people with an entrepreneurial mindset. therefore, it is essential to increase the budget for education and skills within the multiannual financial framework. in the light of the coming european year of citizens, we must place citizens at the core of the european project for a gradual political union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report we are putting to the vote in this parliament tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, is the result of more than two years of work and joint efforts between parliament and the european commission to bring about the project of creating a digital single market in europe. you all know that this is one of the objectives set not only in the europe 2020 strategy, but also in the so-called monti report, in commissioner michel barnier's single market acts i and ii and in vice-president neelie kroes' digital agenda for europe. the effective implementation of a digital single market is one of the most important, ambitious and innovative initiatives that we have developed in the european institutions in recent years. adapting new and important technological developments to our internal market, developing e-commerce, ensuring our access to information and the infinite variety of goods and services that we can find on the internet is a fundamental challenge that we must meet if we are to place europe at the forefront of the world. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. ladies and gentlemen, europe has not yet found its place on the internet. the digital business environment - we must admit - is hostile to our companies, especially our smes. in this time of crisis we cannot afford to have such a highly fragmented market, with 27 different legislations on vat, intellectual property rights or data protection, to name just a few examples. we have a business environment which generates enormous costs and makes it impossible for our smes - which make up 99% of our businesses and generate 85% of the jobs in the union - to afford the adventure of cross-border online trading that exists today. we know that in recent years, according to the data provided to us by the european commission, smes that trade online have grown and generated twice as many jobs and profits as those that have not, and if we help them to connect to the digital economy, we will take a fundamental step towards creating economic growth and jobs. i firmly believe in an equation: 'smes + internet = economic growth and employment'. that is the priority objective we have set ourselves. but helping smes and creating jobs would not be the only benefit that the digital single market would bring, nor is it the only objective of the report we will be voting on tomorrow. the benefits to citizens, to consumers, would also be enormous. increased supply would give them access to an incredible range of products at more competitive prices, allowing them to expand their freedom of choice. it is therefore vital to provide them with the information, education and tools needed to enable our citizens to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the digital economy. it is also essential that we know how to increase consumer confidence in the medium. ladies and gentlemen, let me close by expressing my conviction that our economies are at the crossroads of their future development and that we must therefore take this important step together. in this year, when we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the single market, we must certainly make this objective a reality. if we do, we will have taken a very important step forward in overcoming the current crisis, with an economy strengthened and prepared to meet the challenges of the global economy of the 21st century. that is why i always say, and i will never tire of saying, that the way out of this crisis is also in a digital format. i would like to ask the house to vote in favour of this report tomorrow.
madam president, i should like to begin by welcoming commissioner borg to this parliament. as has already been said here tonight, there are currently an estimated 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises operating in the internal market, but only 25% of these enterprises operate outside the territory of the european union, a fact to be borne in mind at a difficult time like the present, in which the internationalisation of our enterprises must be seen as the engine for getting out of the current economic crisis. on the other hand, it is true that this process of going abroad involves a multitude of risks and costs, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, since they have limited resources, which is an obstacle to starting an internationalisation process. this report, which was adopted by the committee on international trade of this parliament, is certainly of great importance, because although it is not a legislative report, it proposes to improve this situation by addressing key issues such as access to information and mechanisms for sharing existing practices in the member states, as well as instruments to facilitate access to capital.
mr president, for many years the aim has been to achieve a truly european patent system which would provide uniform protection throughout the union. so far we are all in agreement, and i want to give my support to the idea of actually having this patent in our law. in my view, such a system should be as low-cost as possible, it cannot be discriminatory, it must take account of the treaty principles relating to economic, social and territorial cohesion, it must provide legal certainty for all those concerned, it must be balanced and take account of small and mediumsized enterprises and it must encourage innovation throughout the european union. i think we all share these principles. the pseudo-legal framework which we are dealing with here is not the cheapest, it is discriminatory, it is contrary to the principles of cohesion, it creates legal uncertainty and is harmful to third parties, and i do not think that it will ultimately promote innovation. all this for the simple reason that the commission has conceived of the european patent convention as something immovable, consisting in the exclusion of the court of justice - which, incidentally, has yet to give its opinion - from the system. it also allows the creation of a unified court with three seats. in reality, the commission, the member states and parliament have given up the search for a solution within the framework of the treaties, preferring the intergovernmental option of enhanced cooperation. we therefore propose that all three reports be rejected. in the end, the council won the case, but not all of it: the kingdom of spain and the italian republic have indeed brought the matter before the court of justice. the objectives pursued by the three rapporteurs are very praiseworthy, but the path chosen is the wrong one. the complexity of the system favours large companies over small ones. in my country, in spain, and in the european union, more than 90% of enterprises are small and mediumsized. we must not forget that a patent is a monopoly of exploitation and is therefore contrary to free competition. the owner of a patent has the exclusive right to exploit and market the invention. in return, he has the obligation to disseminate his invention in detail so that it can be reproduced by third parties. it is precisely the possibility of accessing technical patent information that promotes innovation to the greatest extent, while at the same time protecting inventors. so if the system does not balance the position of the patent owner with that of the legitimately interested third party, we have not made any progress. the patent system proposed to us is fragmenting the internal market. unfortunately, we already have this enhanced cooperation, but we doubt that the 25 member states involved will finally ratify the international agreement for the creation of the unified court. the system is too complex, with multiple patent protection possibilities and different courts for dispute settlement, and it is also too expensive. the fact that there are different courts for each type of appeal is not the most appropriate in terms of legal certainty, and we believe that the good faith clause in the regulation on translation provisions will not be sufficient. companies in some countries will be able to do all the paperwork in their own language, while those in other countries will have to use a language other than their own. the languages to be used will be those of countries which already have considerable competitive advantages and which will now be spared the costs of having to disseminate their inventions in an appropriate way. in short, with the compromise which is being put to the vote today we are giving up a real patent system in the european union: we have not reached a real european vision either on languages - we shall have three - or on the court - we shall have three - or on the content and scope of patents. the foundations of the building, unfortunately, are weak. i would like to end by quoting the prestigious european max planck institute for intellectual property and competition law, which points out that the unitary patent represents a significant step backwards in terms of the quality and viability of patent law, that the opportunity to modernise the european patent protection system has been lost and that this situation can only be restored if we return to the spirit and the letter of the treaties, if we all make concessions and if no one tries to impose his will on others.
madam president, today is going to be a great day for europe, its citizens and their enterprises. after 40 years of negotiations we will have a european patent which is valid in most member states, thereby easing the path to an enhanced single market. however, spain refuses to join this great european project. i find it embarrassing that spain, for petty nationalistic reasons, wants to be out. because of this, thousands of catalan innovative enterprises will be damaged by this spanish exception. as a catalan mep coming from catalonia, which generates more than 30% of new spanish patents every year, i find this astonishing. i will support this european patent because by enhancing the single market we enhance our chances of future prosperity. the spanish government seems to be providing further rational incentives for more and more catalan citizens to ask for an independent state inside the eu. (the speaker agreed to take two blue-card questions under rule 149(8))
the question of the 'blue card'. speaking of nationalisms, it makes me a little flushed that you speak negatively, being a nationalist yourself. the question is how will you explain to catalan entrepreneurs that they have to address three patent court offices in three languages that are not their own, not those of catalonia and not those of spain, and what is the regime that will benefit catalan entrepreneurs in this matter, beyond this somewhat nationalist rhetoric that is, of course, not spanish. because, with all due respect, we have said that we want that patent, logically, although not in the form in which it has been filed.
the answer is 'blue card'. dear mr lópez-istúriz, let me tell you that english is now also our language and that i, for example, taught at the university of barcelona in catalan and english courses. it is therefore no problem for catalan companies, which nowadays already export more to european markets than to the rest of spain, to use this language which would greatly facilitate all the procedures for the management and registration of new innovations. i would therefore recommend that you do not oppose this great european project for that reason. today is a great day for europe and i invite you to reconsider your position.
the question of the 'blue card'. madam president, i have just heard that nationalism is bad for business. i would ask mr tremosa i balcells to tell us why he does not renounce nationalism, which is so damaging to catalan businesses.
the answer is 'blue card'. i answer mr masip by saying that i am catalan and i feel catalan and european. i also tell him that catalonia - where in the last elections almost two thirds of the voters voted for parties that want to hold a referendum on independence - is the nationality of spain whose economy exports the most, where there are more multinationals and where there are thousands and thousands of professionals who sell more and more of their products to the rest of the world. so it is not incompatible, but quite the opposite, to have an open world view and at the same time to feel proud of the deep roots that are in our identity as a people.
madam president, i am sorry, but what we have today is not a european patent. it discriminates in favour of the german and french against the more widely spoken spanish. if there is a real desire to simplify costs - both mr lópez-istúriz and i argued this in committee - then the european patent should be in english. i am also against it because it ignores articles 8, 6 and 7. in addition, a judicial system is being established which would jeopardise the judicial unity of the eu itself. less triumphalism; not everything was discussed in the advocate general's opinion.
ladies and gentlemen, i am saddened to have to announce that on 24 november last 112 people died in a fire at a textile factory in dhaka, the capital of bangladesh. the absence of emergency exits, inadequate safety measures and flammable materials contributed to this misfortune. now, of course, there is growing popular discontent with this catastrophe. thousands of workers have taken to the streets in dhaka, demanding greater protection. the funeral was attended by 100,000 people and we in the european parliament cannot turn a blind eye to this tragedy. there are over 4 000 textile factories in bangladesh, many of which do not have adequate safety measures. most of its exports come here to the european union, or to the united states, often under well-known brand names. the european parliament considers it important to follow up this tragedy, the working conditions in that country, bangladesh, and to analyse implications for future trade agreements. for this reason, instead of dealing with this matter with a debate on urgent matters, as planned this week, the conference of presidents decided last thursday that parliament would hold a full debate in the january part-session, including statements from the council and the commission. on behalf of the european parliament and all of you, i express my sincere condolences to the families of the victims and wish the injured a speedy and full recovery.
i now proceed to a second announcement. at its meeting on 22 november 2012, the conference of presidents adopted a recommendation on the expiry of the mandate of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, currently scheduled for 31 march next year, with the proposal to extend it until 30 september 2013, in accordance with article 184 of the regulation. if you have no objections, this extension of the mandate will be carried out. no objections to that? well, then we consider it approved until september 30 next year.
the president of the sitting read yesterday afternoon an interpretation of rule 187 (1) of the rules of procedure, proposed by the committee on constitutional affairs. in accordance with article 211 (4) of the regulation, in the absence of any objection, this interpretation is hereby adopted.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
we have now reached the end of the voting period.
mr president, i support this report because it is part of the measures to support the real and productive economy which we need just as much or more than austerity. because without business creation, without support for entrepreneurs and, especially, without a determined commitment by small and mediumsized enterprises, we will not get out of this situation. our economy, our entrepreneurs, need the support that other entrepreneurs have in other parts of the world to place the creativity and the added value that they are able to generate in the global marketplace. without that momentum, there will be no economic recovery. financing and internationalisation of genuine entrepreneurs: this is the first condition for overcoming this crisis. as the report recalls, the successful implementation of these strategies at regional and local level has borne fruit and there are hundreds of good practices to back up this commitment. planetary successes based on our best virtues and the knowledge that they need boost. we must devote effort and resources to this, because without economic activity, without entrepreneurship, without opportunities for self-employment, austerity will not lead to any solution.
mr president, i voted in favour because after almost 40 years it is urgent to improve the competitiveness of european products by means of a single patent and because registration is cheaper for the member states. it is not ideal because we do not share the language regime, but users are clear about this. it is urgent and essential to put in place this european system of protection of european creativity which is projected onto products and services. it is also urgent that this be done in a simple procedure, at reasonable cost, without bureaucratic burdens and with procedures which are understandable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
all the available data certify that this report on the prevention of age-related diseases in women is a matter of pure social justice. this report recognises the contribution, hitherto invisible, of women to the prosperity that has characterised our world until the financial crisis. women's work has been invisible, and so has their contribution to gross domestic product, since much of their contribution has been in the form of domestic work, without recognition or presence in social security systems or in budget figures. today, the protagonists of this generous effort live alone and under the threat of misery and marginalization. it is time for that to change and for this injustice to be corrected in the future. to do so requires measures linked to the labour market and education, as well as the determined application of gender equality criteria and, above all, the protection of the health of women who have given their all to build our welfare state.
in writing. − abstention. the greens have nothing against helping kyrgyzstan, which can be regarded as the most democratic country in central asia, and hence on many accounts deserves help. however, we are in principle against the extension of the mfa instrument beyond the countries participating in the european neighbourhood policy. the reason for our rejection to offer mfa beyond the enp countries is that mfa is tied to the recipient country operating a structural adjustment program of the imf. hence, the conditionalities for receiving mfa are set, and the eu only participates to the extent of 10-20% in a loan supplied by the imf. for countries outside the enp, the eu has therefore no say on how the money should be spent. this is different for mfa to countries within the enp (such as georgia for which a vote on mfa will take place at the same december 2012 plenary), given that the union’s enp policy as such has the character of a structural adjustment programme. here, additional mfa funds can have added value over and above imf payments, pegged to a rigid set of conditionalities.
in writing. − the achievement of a digital single market benefits smes and small users in particular. the establishment of the free movement of capital (single market) has always been one of the characteristics of neoliberal europe, which is fostered by the big economic interests. in return, it proposes an economic alternative based on knowledge and innovation to promote the dynamisation of commerce via the internet. the use of the internet is already widespread, which makes it necessary to set limits on economic activities on the internet, providing guarantees while facilitating the development of these small and medium-sized enterprises in a market of 500 million people. electronic commerce must be another step towards a sustainable economic activity, while keeping consumer protection as a priority. moreover, in a time of economic crisis, offering incentives for smes to boost e-commerce is a hope for the biggest users of the internet (and those most affected by unemployment): young people. in conclusion, i voted in favour of the report because it sets out new rules to enable smes, including those in my own country, galicia, to be integrated into digital value chains, so that they can specialise in innovation and create more jobs.
in writing. − in favour. europe faces today times of big challenges. the economic crisis is severely affecting our economy, our countries, our societies, our families. we face nowadays difficult times when, perhaps more than ever, we need political reflection and debate on ideas. every crisis, every stage such as the one in which we are living today, is also an opportunity to improve, to reflect on what were the reasons that brought us to this situation, to correct the mistakes made, to evolve, and thus, to make the necessary changes. the most challenging times are therefore the best opportunities to make reforms, to invent ourselves again and, thus, evolve to a better situation. europe is rapidly moving from the industrial age to a global, networked knowledge and service-based economy. that inevitably necessitates changes not only in the economy but also in the institutions and systems that were designed for a different era. emphasising the paramount importance of the transformative power of new technologies, as well as education, skills and life-long learning, this initiative seeks to stimulate debate and focus public attention on the issues that are at the centre of a successful knowledge economy.
in writing. − abstention. the greens have nothing against official support for sme’s wanting to internationalise. however, we think that for a high number of small or very small sme, internationalisation and globalisation also has a defensive flip-side, for which official support is equally, if not much more prominently, needed – that is, efficient defence against the unfair trading practices of third country companies. in this sense, the greens tabled two amendments which were carried: – considers that the effective protection of smes against unfair trading practices by eu partner states is just as important as helping smes wishing to internationalise; considers internationalisation and protection to be two sides of the same coin in the globalisation process; – calls on the commission to pay due consideration to improved sme access to anti-dumping and anti-subsidy procedures when reforming the eu’s trade defence instruments. another green amendment regarding the effects on smes of the more than 2 700 wrongful border seizures for alleged intellectual property rights infringement in 2011 was not carried. the report as voted does not contain a strong focus on the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights, which would have made the greens vote against.
in writing. − in favour. internet and new technologies play an exponentially important role in the lives of europeans and citizens everywhere. globally technologies are changing societies, the functioning of our democracies, economies, businesses, media, development strategies, security and defence concerns and human rights issues. information and power monopolies that have been unchallenged for a long time are upset. several eu member states have identified access to the internet as a fundamental right, and the commission agrees digital freedoms are part of the copenhagen criteria. in a globally connected world the eu should have a strategy to deal with new technologies in its external actions. there are several areas in this digital world in which it is essential that the eu acts as a global player and leverages its economic and political weight. though overregulation would rather hurt than help the potential of the open internet, in some areas rules need to be updated to match the revolutionary impact of technological developments with adequate democratic oversight.
in writing. − against. the regulation fails to deliver on its key purpose, that is, to phase out in an orderly manner all existing bits of the member states in a clear transitional time-frame. it opens the door to an eternal dual system of member states’ bits on the one hand, and of differently structured eu-wide investment treaties with third countries on the other. such a dual system is not compatible with the lisbon treaty. therefore, greens consistently voted against this kind of result in all committee votes on the results of trialogues, as well as in the plenary vote on the first-reading agreement. notwithstanding this principled failure, we recognise that the regulation makes the most out of a situation which saw council and parliament for a protracted time as antagonists. the regulation keeps the promise of the lisbon treaty that investment policy in time will change towards a dominance of eu-wide investment policy against the bilateral investment policy of member states.
in writing. − no final vote at second reading. at first reading, in may 2011, parliament supported the commission’s proposal of using the advisory procedure for adopting a memorandum of understanding (mou). a good year later, in may 2012, council adopted its common position, insisting on the examination procedure. the legal service of the commission then proposed options for an ‘interim solution’ of the question of comitology, including one option which the parliament took over: under this option, no comitology will be applied to adopting mous. parliament’s argument for this option was that it keeps all doors open, does not prejudice the work on the mfa framework regulation and unblocks a quick release of the funds to georgia. however, in a trilogue on 16 october, council rejected this solution and continued to insist on the examination procedure for mous. parliament’s negotiating team then decided to go back to its first reading position on the advisory procedure, in order to avoid setting a bad precedent for the ongoing negotiations on the framework regulation. the greens support this position. the dossier is hence bound for conciliation. a solution will be difficult, given that it is a one-issue matter which needs to be solved.
in writing. − abstention. today we made ​​a step forward, albeit a small one, to simplify the process of patent grants in europe. though the patent is submitted in english, french or german, this should not be an obstacle to innovation in europe. having a single european patent system is essential, but with democratic controls. however, in the desire to adopt this legislation, important issues, such as the lack of legal reports, have been ignored. in addition to the uncertainty about the strength of legal concern is the way in which you want to control and monopolise intellectual property in europe. the worst thing is that the eu institutions are abdicating responsibilities for intellectual property to an organisation outside the eu: the european patent office and the court. in fact, there are sufficient guarantees that the epo will respect eu legislation and the legislation of the member states. hopefully there will be real progress towards a genuine unitary patent and integrated legal and political structures in the eu.
in writing. - as a europeanist, i am in favour of the creation of a european unitary patent, which is necessary to eliminate the current costs - especially for smes - and the problems of legal uncertainty. i have voted against it, however, because the establishment of this regime must be done within the institutional and legal framework of the eu, ensuring the correct and uniform application of eu law, and cannot therefore be governed by international law. the court of justice of the european union is also expected to rule on the compatibility of the 'enhanced cooperation' mechanism with the eu treaties.
in writing. − abstention. this dossier, with regard to the applicable translation arrangements, is under mere consultation procedure. the main problem is that the whole package, as it is, is incompatible with the treaty.
in writing. − against. the report is a mere own-initiative report which calls for some principles to be respected when setting up the new jurisdictional system. the jurisdictional system for patent disputes itself will be established by a specific international agreement (the unified patent court agreement) currently negotiated by the 25 member states participating in enhanced cooperation. the european union is not a party in the negotiations. consequently parliament is not participating in any stage of the negotiations and it will not be a signatory to that agreement establishing the new patent court.
in writing. − abstention. the group of the greens consider that the outcome of the trialogue is rather modest, to say the least. the environmental issue has entirely disappeared from the text of the safeguard clause. ilo standards will be monitored in a report, but are not part of the criteria for investigation and sanction. the destiny of the two declarations, one by the commission and one jointly by the commission and parliament, is unclear. a similar declaration was annexed to the eu-south korea free trade agreement (fta), but severely criticised afterwards by european jurists as they considered annexing it to the agreement as an improper procedure (all texts of an agreement have to be accepted by both partners). hence the declaration in the eu-south korea fta declaration was a one off. the declarations will probably lie in mep archives, with no real value, as a declaration with no institutional anchor is nothing more than a non-paper and has no legal value. on the positive side is the effort of the rapporteurs to get at least some text on ilo standards.
in writing. − against. greens share the many concerns of scholars, human rights organisations, churches, cooperation agencies, trade unions, small farmers, businesses and cooperatives in central america that this aa is not the right tool to bring peace, justice, sustainable development and added-value creation to the region. the region does not need cheap milk and cheese from eu overproduction, nor overnight, short-term investment. nor should it be obliged to ensure with its customs officers that ‘parma ham’ from brazil or ‘champagne’ from argentina is kept out of guatemalan supermarkets, in line with geographical indications provisions in the aa. greens criticise the fact that the findings of the sia concerning possible negative effects were not taken into account during the negotiations. now that the agreement is ready for implementation, we regret that the six central american countries concerned will be put into competition from the start. the eu announced that the agreement enters into force separately for each country, according to the time of ratification. this means that quotas and reduced tariffs will be applied according to the rule of ‘first come, first served’, and latecomers will be excluded.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the association agreement as an important mechanism for developing relations, but i express my reservations about the asymmetry of the contracting parties and the modest wording of the democratic clauses contained in the political and cooperation pillars. i would stress that the eu's external trade policy must be consistent with respect for human rights and international environmental and ilo conventions.
in writing. - while yesterday the eu was awarded the nobel peace prize, today the european parliament has voted in favour of big economic and financial interests to the detriment of the defence of human rights. it is clear which side the european union is on when it has to choose between the rights of big business and the rights of individuals. this trade agreement between the eu on the one hand and colombia and peru on the other also promotes a major deregulation of financial services, favouring the lack of control over capital movements and tax collection. this explains my opposition to an agreement that is unfair to both sides, that violates the defence of human rights and that benefits economically only large multinational corporations.
in writing. − abstention. the group of the greens consider that the outcome of the trialogue is rather modest, to say the least. the environmental issue has entirely disappeared from the text of the safeguard clause. ilo standards will be monitored in a report, but are not part of the criteria for investigation and sanction. the destiny of the two declarations, one by the commission and one jointly by the commission and parliament, is unclear. a similar declaration was annexed to the eu-south korea free trade agreement (fta), but severely criticised afterwards by european jurists as they considered annexing it to the agreement as an improper procedure (all texts of an agreement have to be accepted by both partners). hence the declaration in the eu-south korea fta declaration was a one off. the declarations will probably lie in mep archives, with no real value, as a declaration with no institutional anchor is nothing more than a non-paper and has no legal value. on the positive side is the effort of the rapporteurs to get at least some text on ilo standards.
in writing. − against. the greens/efa would like to see a very different agreement with colombia and peru, i.e. one which tackles their main problems in the economic, legal and human rights fields. colombia would need to shift away from the ‘extractivist’ model. it would need to fundamentally strengthen its justice and legislation, and it has to curb its frightening record on human rights. peru should equally overcome its role as a ‘mining and export crop only’ producer, which has devastating effects on biodiversity and very deficient and unqualified job creation. cooperation with that country should contribute to quitting colonial trade patterns and supporting efforts to climb up the added value ladder. since the start of the negotiations, innumerable civil society groups in europe and in colombia and peru, including etuc/ituc and epsu, and the national trade unions in colombia and peru, have opposed the way the negotiations were being conducted, as well as their contents. in order to streamline the opposition and their demands for change, the common denominator chosen by them for campaigns was human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the trade agreement, but i nevertheless urge the eu to strictly suspend the agreement if the criteria set out in the human rights clause are violated. i would stress that the eu's external trade policy must be consistent with respect for human rights and international environmental and ilo conventions, especially in countries where there are particularly violent internal conflicts.
in writing. − i welcome parliament’s approval of this agreement. at a time when our economy is struggling, it is vital that the eu forges stronger links with emerging economies such as colombia and peru. not only will this agreement create jobs in the eu in sectors such as the drinks, car and textile industries but colombia and peru will see much-needed european investment into their economy. the human rights situation is improving in colombia and peru and we should continue to support the efforts of the colombian and peruvian governments on human and environmental rights.
in writing. - this report is an exhaustive description of the work of the committee on women's rights and gender equality of the ep, of which i am a member, on this subject. the various political groups were very active in the amendment process, from the bng to the greens/efa group. the report lists the highest, on average risks faced by women of advanced age. the situation of women's rights and the struggle for equality are in themselves a difficult task, the effects of which multiply for the elderly woman. they are those who suffer most severely from the effects of the gender pay gap, or are more likely to be part of the population at risk of poverty, among other indicators, especially in crisis situations. we have therefore voted in favour of this report, which accurately describes the difficult situation of elderly women. this problem needs to be thoroughly studied in order to define a better prevention of age-related diseases in women.
in writing. − in favour. the eu’s population is ageing to an ever greater extent as a result of low birth rates and rising life expectancy. this consideration is increasingly being taken into account in european policies, as can be seen from the fact that 2012 was declared the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations. the aim is to promote healthy ageing for all through access to a high standard of health care and by means of prevention measures to enable older people to remain independent for as long as possible. this report seeks to give a general picture of the situation and, as regards policy, proposes a number of measures to be taken at national and european level.
in writing. - this report provides greater guarantees for the fight against bacteria resistant to antimicrobial treatments, such as antibiotics. the prudent use of these substances, encouraging proper dosage, should be a priority in terms of health safety. we must change our attitude towards the use of these drugs, encouraging their responsible use while also increasing the information available on them. this responsible consumption should also be extended to other sectors such as veterinary medicine and, through more restrictive legislation, encourage research into new antibiotics and the development of alternatives that can replace these substances. that is why i voted in favour of this new regulation, hoping that the 400 000 infections and 25 000 deaths caused by these bacteria in the eu, iceland and norway can be drastically reduced.
in writing. − in favour. since the discovery of penicillin, in the 1930s, antimicrobials have revolutionised medical and veterinary practice, leading to significant reductions in the mortality rate from a wide range of serious and often fatal bacterial infections while paving the way for innovative invasive surgeries to enter widespread use. the extraordinary medicinal progress of the antibiotic era, however, risks being undermined by the growing threat of antimicrobial resistance (amr). amr is the ability of a microbial organism to flourish and survive in the presence of an antimicrobial at a usually sufficient dosage to inhibit or kill microorganisms of the same species. as a result, antimicrobial organisms may develop a profound resistance to certain antimicrobial agents to which they are ordinarily sensitive. after eighty years of widespread use, the evolution and adaptation of disease-causing microbes has resulted in many antimicrobials losing their effectiveness. this nascent crisis is a consequence of two fundamental and related issues: the inappropriate use of antimicrobials in human and veterinary medicine, and a forty-year innovation gap in the development of novel antimicrobials due to low returns on r&d investments.
we shall conclude with the explanations of vote. (the sitting was suspended at 2 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - the mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, the cyprus presidency welcomes the fact that it has been possible to reach an agreement between our two institutions and that we have managed together to successfully complete the annual budgetary procedure for 2013 and the procedure on draft amending budget no 6 for 2012 before the deadline at the end of the year. following the failure of the conciliation committee to reach agreement on a common text for the 2013 budget within the 21-day period provided for by the treaty, the commission had to present a new draft budget for 2013. after long and difficult negotiations, we reached agreement on 29 november on a draft package, which was subsequently confirmed by both sides. on the basis of the agreement reached on 29 november and the agreed timetable, the council formally adopted its positions on the new draft budget for 2013 and on draft amending budget no 6 for 2012 on thursday and we expect parliament to formally adopt them tomorrow without amendments. this will not only give the commission an extra €6 billion to pay this year's bills, as it is the largest corrective budget ever adopted, but it will also avoid recourse to the provisional twelfths at the beginning of next year and, moreover, avoid weeks and months of difficult budget negotiations. i know this is something that all sides wanted to avoid. i would like to express my satisfaction at the successful outcome of the negotiations for us, even though we have been in several stalemates which had to be overcome. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have taken part in the discussions over the past few weeks. it wasn't always easy. but i am grateful for the constructive approach of the european parliament, which finally enabled us to ensure the successful outcome of the proceedings. i would like to thank in particular the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr lamassoure, who played a catalytic role in some of the most difficult phases of the negotiations and whose positive contribution has been greatly appreciated. i would also like to thank the three rapporteurs involved, mrs balzani and mr la via and mr vaughan, for their tireless cooperation and commitment to overcoming the differences between the two institutions. finally, i would like to thank the commission - you, mr lewandowski - for acting as an honest mediator and facilitating our negotiations. mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, we have finally delivered what the citizens expect of us: a compromise solution which has enabled us to secure the 2013 budget and to avoid further difficult negotiations between our institutions. in these difficult times, everyone wants to know that valuable european union programmes and actions can continue and operate uninterrupted. in particular, it is important that programmes such as erasmus, lifelong learning, the framework programme for research, rural development, the european social fund, as well as major infrastructure projects in the field of cohesion policy, continue to serve the interests of citizens and the common interest of the european union.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am so pleased that we can confirm today the positive outcome of the negotiations, to be voted on tomorrow. the agreement has required compromise on all sides to achieve the common goal of filling the gap for 2012 – a clear gap for 2012 – and also to start the 2013 budget year with a proper budget in place. while not being perfect, it has the main fundamental merit of providing continuity and predictability. this is reinforced by the declarations making it clear too that in case of need, we could provide europe with additional financial means required. i think this is a positive signal nowadays in these times of tension, and also tensions in the public finances of member states. the agreement would not have been possible without the strong involvement – i would say pressure – from parliament. therefore, on behalf of the commission, many thanks to the chair, mr lamassoure, and the rapporteurs giovanni la via, francesca balzani and derek vaughan. thanks also to the coordinators, to one of whom – salvador garriga polledo – i need to wish a speedy recovery, and to president schulz for backing the process from the very beginning. also many thanks to the cyprus presidency for their constructive role, as the major problems were on the side of the council this time, in finding what is really needed, what is documented as the real need for 2012, that is pending claims coming in 2012. therefore, now, we can implement our policies and in this implementation i am closer, though not completely close, to what is called the sound financial management of the european budget. as for the 2013 budget, some clear priorities of parliament are reflected in the commitments, balanced by the rigorous approach – the really rigorous approach as stated by derek vaughan – to administration. next year is the year for reversing a trend. so far the number of posts in the european union has been growing. now we are steadily starting to reduce the number of posts in the european union, in the institutions, although we have croatia and although we have more competences. this is an austerity budget. it is not all what the union needed, but rather what could be achieved at this stage. we have learned to solve the problems of 2012 in 2012, and we are to solve many problems of 2013 in 2013. this is the empirical lesson of the reality of today’s europe, but it is much better than the chaos of the provisional twelfths and being open to the criticism that the european union lacks leadership in times of crisis. although this is an austerity budget, this is a budget for investment and i am really deeply concerned as to the level of payments. i share your concern eider, helga, jutta and göran. i am also concerned by the level of payments for 2013. it is eur 5 billion less than in the draft budget. however, again the lesson learnt from the experience of the reality of today’s europe is that we should solve today’s problems today, and try to solve, equipped with declarations, 2013’s additional problems in 2013. the pressure on 2013 will not go away in the next year. i am partially reassured by the joint statements on the additional needs, agreed at the highest political level. i can promise you that in 2013 we will continue the mood of cooperation established this year, with very clear monitoring of implementation, very transparent reporting to the budgetary authorities, and there is also some hope of very swift transfers if needed. i can say in advance that the amending budget for 2013 should come earlier next year than this year. a lot has been achieved, therefore, but real challenges still lie ahead of us. once more i thank you, the european parliament. without you this positive message to millions of beneficiaries around europe would not be possible.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner lewandowski, president louca, after two months of intense negotiations and a failed conciliation process, it looks like we are going to reach an agreement. i would not call it a success, since it only allows us to find a temporary solution for the 2013 budgets. and i say temporary solution, because the only thing this agreement allows is to delay a certain budget crisis by a few months. parliament has put forward various proposals for agreement and the council has said no again and again. the council's inability or unwillingness to find a final solution to the budgetary problems of recent years is truly worrying and incomprehensible. we are being forced to accept an agreement which allows us to end 2012 with a deficit of 9 billion euros and which proposes, as commissioner lewandowski recalled, a clearly lower level of payments for 2013. and next year, sooner rather than later, the commission will tell us once again that it has no money to carry on with the programmes and projects we have approved, that it is accumulating, as has happened this year, bills that cannot be paid and that we either put the money in or we paralyse the programmes. and i am afraid that is the aim of some member states: that we should reach a point where we have no room for manoeuvre and have to abandon projects which are necessary for the future of europe. and this is not just a budget problem. i believe we are in the first phase of a strategy which seeks to justify cuts in european ambitions and in the next financial framework. that is what we are really talking about: a strategy to reduce the money from the common agricultural policy, the money from cohesion policy, the money from the transeuropean networks, energy, telecommunications - and that is not the way. we need a strong and reliable budget to deal with the crisis and with cuts or defaults we are not going to get it. i therefore ask the council to keep its promises and to provide the means necessary to ensure that the budget is implemented correctly and in full. and above all i hope that they will come back in january with a real will to reach agreements with parliament and to seek definitive solutions to this crisis. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. mr president, this is a subject which we have discussed many times in the committee on budgets. of course, the budget of the european institutions alone will not solve youth unemployment, but this budget funds infrastructure, it funds mobility programmes, it funds education programmes, which can help to tackle the problem of youth unemployment we have in europe, even if they do not solve it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe needs good news. tomorrow, when we decide on the last amending budget for 2012 and the budget for 2013, we will have the opportunity to give the citizens some good news and to combat the pessimism that seems to have taken hold in many citizens and in a large part of european public opinion. because the approval of the package negotiated with the council means that there will be spending commitments for our priority policies, which have a direct impact on improving the living conditions of the citizens. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. spending commitments that help to improve competitiveness and employment. rejecting the negotiated package would add to the crisis we're already suffering. but we must be honest and recognize at the same time that the package, negotiated with great difficulty - and for that i warmly congratulate our negotiators, president lamassoure and our rapporteurs - has had to be strengthened by solemnly signed political declarations to tackle the problem of insufficient payments. but as the philosopher said, the best is the enemy of the good. it is essential, among other things, that regional and local authorities, businesses and citizens involved in programmes such as erasmus, research and the european globalisation adjustment fund, which affect many regions and thousands of workers, can be sure that the programmes will continue and that the 2012 bills will be paid. the adoption of the negotiated package, that is to say, the avoidance of major problems, is not a success, but it is the condition for tomorrow's success, and it allows us to insist, once again, with greater legitimacy than ever, that this permanent gap between the ceilings for payments and outstanding obligations is the legitimate result of a structural defect in the budgetary field. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. changing this state of affairs is a priority in the next multiannual financial framework by amending the decision on own resources, because we understand that the union has only one future vis-à-vis the rest of the world and it is nothing other than to end once and for all the project of political integration begun more than half a century ago.
opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. - mr president, first of all i would like to apologize for the absence of the author of the opinion, mr andrés perelló, from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. and on their behalf i must say that we regret that in this opinion of mr leichtfried - who has also worked in depth - the presence of the technical representatives of the local administrations in the forum for technical cooperation has not been taken into account. we think it would have been a good participation, especially if it is a real participation, and that it could have helped to a more complete view, as well as the inclusion of technical and organisational planning measures to reduce noise and emissions. we also call for consultation with the associations of those affected, not just at local level. the associations of those concerned can be federated at european level and can provide experience which can be very useful precisely in finding solutions to problems which affect a particular locality but which can be seen from another point of view. we also believe that the relevant information on trajectories, planning and emissions should be given in a more transparent way, which could even be consulted online by these associations or the public. and finally, as regards assistance on the ground, i would like to speak about the need, as has been said, for that social face, the need to maintain the social package in the face of more maximalist positions or positions of rejection.
there is a request for a 'blue card' question from mr leichtfried, but mr leichtfried has already been entered as a rapporteur, and we do not think it appropriate for members who are already legitimately included in the debate to use the 'blue card' procedure.
mr president, you will admit that this is not a question of respect for the rules of procedure. i have listened to you with respect, but the rules of procedure must be used properly. i am trying to apply the procedure for 'blue cards' and the 'catch the eye' procedure in a strictly rigorous way, so as not to alter the time available to the various groups for other interventions which are not, however, planned and, above all, not allocated as appropriate to the entity of each group.
mr president, i shall now speak in english as my german is not so good. considering the noise issue, as i have said since the beginning i still believe that the article on the right of scrutiny proposed by the commission was a positive element and has been misunderstood. i understand, however, that this is a very highly political matter for many of the austrian and german colleagues here in this house, but the commission was proposing to scrutinise the process, not the substance and final local decision. without this measure, stakeholders are exposed in my opinion to the possibility of rushed arbitrary and discriminatory selection of mitigation measures. regarding the amendments tabled, i support the four amendments tabled by the epp and s&d groups – amendments 44 and 48 (identical) and amendments 45 and 49 (identical) – on article 1 and article 2. these amendments reintroduce the idea that the economic cost should be taken into account and we, as liberals, have supported it since the beginning. these amendments improve the current text. it should, however, be noted that amendments 45 and 49 still, in my opinion, incorrectly reflect icao’s balanced approach. the wording ‘minimising noise’ means that house insulation projects or land use planning could potentially not be included, as these do not ‘minimise noise’ but address a ‘noise problem’.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think the commission has pointed out one very important element in the provision of air transport services: quality. or rather, the passenger's perception of quality, which is ultimately relevant to day-to-day management. we believe that improving the quality of service is essential. firstly, we need to improve the use of our airports' capacity by improving the system of allocating slots. we also need to improve the management of aircraft noise in the vicinity of airports, for obvious reasons of environmental protection and quality of life for people. and finally, we must improve the functioning of the ground-based support services. these services are essential for the user's perception of quality. some of them are calling for the rejection of one of the proposals. but the rejection is not commensurate with the problems raised. the rapporteur, mr zasada, is quite right to ask for more time for the committee on transport and tourism to find a satisfactory and balanced solution for all parties. what is not sensible is to jeopardise the integrity of the three proposals for the sake of interests which are certainly legitimate but which do not correspond to the general interest which should guide the work of this house. the european people's party should not be against opening up to competition for reasons of political consistency. the possible and reasonable liberalization does not conflict with the interests of the workers or of any airport. it is rather inexcusable to be more efficient and that will not be achieved by the closure of some who want everything to change so that nothing changes.
you know very well that this is not a question of compliance with the rules of procedure, but it is a legitimate opinion, but it has no place at this stage of the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the recommendation by mrs anni podimata, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the draft council decision authorising enhanced cooperation in the field of financial transaction tax (com (2012) 0631 - 2012/0298 (app)) (a7-0396/2012).
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs podimata, on her report and support the draft council decision authorising enhanced cooperation in the field of the new financial transaction tax. i regret that the commission proposal for a directive from september last year, adopted in its amended form by parliament, could not find sufficient support in the council. and i appreciate the position of the member states, which in sufficient numbers have shown themselves willing to establish a common system by making use, for the first time, of the enhanced cooperation procedure in the tax field. such an initiative, respecting the competences of non-participating states and the principle of non-discrimination, is the best way to avoid further fiscal fragmentation in the internal market and will contribute to stabilising the public accounts of participating states in a fair manner, reducing speculative movements in the financial system and promoting a growth and employment agenda. the new tax should form part of the european union's own resources system, so that its revenue reduces or replaces the contributions of the participating states to the union budget. it is a valuable first step towards making the commitments on financial system contribution reached at the 2009 g20 summit in pittsburgh effective at the global level and to advance a sustainable development agenda.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, ms podimata, for doing a good job. the debate on whether europe should have a financial transaction tax seems to have been overtaken by events. realising that it was impossible to move on this all together, a group of member states have decided that they will do it themselves. i think that it is legitimate and in accordance with the treaties to do this through the enhanced cooperation procedure. very often in europe we stop going forward because a small group of member states refuses to integrate more. as i am deeply in favour of a stronger and more integrated europe, the use of enhanced cooperation can only be good news for me. moreover, the decision of the member states is a consensual and democratic one. as long as impact assessments are done to ensure that no harm will come to non-participating member states, i think that this parliament should give a green light to the procedure. what would citizens from these twelve member states say if we blocked their democratic will to have a common ftt? as a liberal, i think that we have to live and let live. if twelve member states want to go forward along the ftt path, let it be.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs podimata, on her excellent report. the european socialists made this clear more than four years ago, and tomorrow, with the vote, this parliament will take an important step towards the objective of introducing a financial transaction tax. more than nine member states have expressed their intention to introduce such a tax, but we cannot stop at mere declarations. i ask the twenty-seven to start taking decisive action in this regard. we have a political obligation to put in place - first at european level and then at international level - a tax that ensures that one of the causes of the crisis pays for its negligence, that the financial sector is held accountable once and for all for the abuses committed, helping economic recovery after being bailed out. we must act as quickly as possible to establish this instrument which will enable us to obtain new revenue for the public coffers, which must be used to stimulate policies of growth and job creation, and which must also serve to promote our values of solidarity and equality by financing the fight against the crisis, inequality and poverty, within and outside europe.
opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. - mr president, mr commissioner, welcome to the house. the duration of transport is just one more parameter that affects animal welfare, since it would be pointless to limit the transport of animals to eight hours if the vehicles are not conditioned to ensure minimum density and proper ventilation and if the drivers do not have the minimum training to handle the animals properly. i think it is worth making it clear that the current european legislation on animal welfare is the most ambitious in the world. the european food safety authority's scientists say that the welfare of animals depends more on the conditions of transport than on the duration of the journey. ladies and gentlemen, to be honest, i would like to say that i found the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism more balanced, and not because i was the author. all these speeches, mr president, are very beautiful. it is a pity that behind it, sometimes - and i am not dismissing everyone - there is some part that is not true, that hides interests; interests of countries that want to export frozen food and of those who have to transport live animals. why does the rule not apply to animals which are not intended for slaughter but for fattening? mr president, interests, interests, interests, not animal sensibilities.
i am opposed to the introduction of new animal welfare rules when the existing regulation already contains provisions regulating the time of journeys according to the different animal species and in accordance with the scientific knowledge we have. it is worth recalling that the european food safety authority itself has stated that there is no scientific basis for amending the current legislation and that animal welfare depends mainly on the quality of the journey, i.e. the treatment of the animals and the condition of the vehicles. it should also be remembered that transport is already required to respect a number of essential parameters, such as minimum density, ventilation, temperature or intervals of water supply or feeding. the current rules on the transport of animals are more than sufficient to ensure the welfare of animals during transport. the problem is the degree of compliance with the regulations in force. we should concentrate on improving controls to enforce the law, rather than using this debate to introduce restrictions on the free movement of goods which will not have the same effect in all countries and which would benefit some commercial interests to the detriment of others. if it is true that animals suffer on long journeys, let us not limit journeys only to animals destined for slaughter but also to animals for fattening. why make distinctions if both animals and others are entitled to be treated with dignity? i believe that this period of economic crisis is not the best time to make proposals that are not even backed up scientifically. the european union cannot afford such trifles.
madam president, there are two proposals on the table: the commission's blueprint, which outlines an economic and monetary union with all the elements necessary to ensure its proper functioning and a detailed and plausible roadmap - a document which the delegation i represent fully endorses - and mr van rompuy's report, which has a more watered-down, less ambitious vision and which abandons important elements such as a genuine common deposit guarantee system or formulas leading to the mutualisation of debt, such as eurobonds, which are necessary for an efficient economic and monetary union. important agreements must emerge from this council, ladies and gentlemen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is inexcusably necessary both to ensure financial stability and to overcome one of the major problems preventing the euro area from growing and creating jobs: the lack of access to finance for smes. the euro area financial market is a fragmented market which, in addition to funding shortages, leads to unjustified interest rate differentials between member states. there is no justification for companies which are in the same or better position than those in other member states not being able to finance themselves or having to do so at exorbitant interest rates compared to their neighbours. there are signs that the council will dare to develop the banking union. it would be the best christmas present. nor is this the time to put short-term political interests ahead of the interests of the citizens of the european union. the urgency of the situation, madam president, must make this council change something. the council cannot continue to do things as they have been done up to now: too slowly, too late and too little.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, this morning, in the presence of ordinary citizens, who are the real reality of the union, we have 'parliamentarized' the receipt of the nobel prize. the nobel prize recognises an original, positive and successful story: the first 50 years of the union. but we have to ask ourselves whether we're still a success story or are we at risk. i think we are at risk, we are suffering the perverse effects of the second law of thermodynamics, we are in a process of entropy, we lose political energy and, by suffering this loss of political energy, what has been a story of synergies is becoming a story of dysfunctions. we have three documents: the commission document, the van rompuy document and the council conclusions. none of them offers a social response to the crisis, none of them offers strong measures for growth and job creation, none of them widely recognises the need to democratise the union. we are in a confusion, and as the philosopher bacon said, truth, the solution, can more easily emerge from error than from confusion. the problem is in the 'member countries': the national logic, the nationalist logic, which we can only overcome with the logic of the union. that is the coup d'état that schmidt and delors are calling for, and that is the coup that parliament and the commission must deliver together.
in writing. − abstention. this draft amending budget number 6 addresses the shortfalls in payments for outstanding commitments of the 2012 eu budget. council refused to pay the entire amount of eur 9 billion and accepted only eur 6 billion. this means that the eur 3 billion left over will have to be covered by the 2013 budget. this is clearly bad budgetary management and goes against the principle that bills have to be paid. we abstain, as the draft amending budget still foresees an additional eur 6 billion for the 2012 budget.
in writing. the european union must take a step forward to help find a way out of the economic and financial crisis we are experiencing. the 2013 budget must be a strong budget, allowing european policies (cohesion, agriculture, fisheries, etc.) to become an unshakable pillar in times of budget cuts in the states. for my country, galicia, it is vital to maintain and increase public investment in the productive sectors. this budget reduces the stakes in these productive sectors. europe can only meet the challenge it faces by achieving a real growth pact in which sustainable and efficient public investment can put innovation and development at the service of job creation. a large number of young people are emigrating from southern europe because of the high rates of youth unemployment (50% in galicia) and soon, if we do not stop this, young europeans will be looking for jobs in other booming economies such as those in south america or asian countries. we must therefore increase our budget to ensure a future of employment, including for young europeans, and to strengthen our productive sectors. that is why our group voted against.
in writing. against. in politics, sometimes you have to swallow a few snakes. and we're often forced to do it for reasons of realism. but we feel that the council has given us a false impression with the 2013 budget, which we are likely to digest for a long time and which does not bode well for the next steps. the logic of late payment is thus being continued, and we know that this will have disastrous consequences in the months to come. the iter research project on nuclear fusion is still ongoing and its urgency and relevance in these times of crisis will have to be demonstrated. the growth pact, which was wanted by the council itself, is being buried. the council's proposal for such a compromise is not so surprising when one knows how it works. but it is much more worrying that parliament should accept it, even on the tip of its tongue! whatever one may think of this compromise, the position adopted by parliament in these debates will not strengthen us for the next steps. it is rather a situation of fragility and weakness in the face of the major challenges ahead, including the financial framework for 2014-2020.
in writing. - i support the mobilisation of this fund for the case of the basque metal products industry, which has been hit hard by the crisis and should be improved by the immediate unblocking of the so-called 'crisis exception', which allows financial assistance to be provided to workers made redundant by the crisis as well as to those who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. the basque industry has shown that it believes in the capacity, training and competence of people as the main source of its competitiveness. this contribution focuses on providing training to enable dismissed people to re-enter the labour market with new skills. a committee set up for this purpose will manage the aid with the participation of the parties concerned and the basque authorities. i hope that in future training will be more clearly oriented towards sectors which can more easily accommodate the dismissed.
in writing. − against. we are very cautious about such costly proposals in the current economic situation. a very significant added value must be demonstrated in order to get our support. we also believe that it is difficult to compare statistics on crime, unless we have fully harmonised substantive criminal law – and we are against this. we need to check whether the commission is an appropriate body to coordinate statistics – maybe the fundamental rights agency would be? last but not least, we have to address the concerns by edps. taking all those circumstances into account, we supported the rejection – with a reservation that we are not against the idea in principle, but the proposal should be less costly and more correct.
in writing. − while meps have today voted to ground plans from the eu commission to liberalise airport groundhandling services, the outcome is tempered by the decision to refer the proposals back to the committee. this rebuff is a relief for workers in the sector, as the proposals to further liberalise groundhandling services risked further undermining social and employment standards. we hope that this position will be upheld when the transport committee again considers the legislation. bad working conditions for groundhandlers undermine the quality of services, with unacceptable consequences for safety and security. further undermining working conditions is against the interests of both workers and passengers.
in writing. the report also calls for the establishment of a european air traffic management system (atm) for airports. the new rules allow for the optimum use of airspace and ensure that airspace users can operate on their preferred routes, while allowing maximum access to airspace and air traffic control services. the report also proposes greater transparency, so that the coordinator or facilitator of schedules to the companies must submit an annual declaration of his economic interests in order to demonstrate that he does not share interests with the entities receiving the schedules. the text could have addressed issues related to the environmental criterion, such as noise, air pollution, climate change or energy expenditure. in any event, it represents a small step forward in improving the connectivity and usefulness of regional and national airports in the european union.
in writing. − in favour. the commission published its communication on ‘capacities at airports’ com(2011)823, with the conclusion that the capacities at airports should be increased. it identified three fields of problems in this regard: ‘allocation of slots’, ‘noise-related restrictions’ and ‘groundhandling services’. so the commission proposed new legislation on these items: i.e. a recast of the ‘allocation of slots’, replacing the existing directive by a regulation, as well as replacing the existing directives on ‘noise’ and ‘groundhandling’ by regulations. see http://ec.europa.eu/transport/modes/air/airports/index_en.htm " for the ‘slots’ regulation com(2011)827 proposal, the commission’s objectives are to ensure strengthened and effectively implemented slot allocation and use, to enhance fair competition, and it therefore proposed to introduce a possibility of secondary trading in slots, to enhance the transparency of the slot allocation procedure, to increase the slot usage from 80 % (80-20) to 85 % (85-15) as well as the slot series length, and to authorise an airport charge system. greens/efa tabled amendments on the introduction of an auctioning system of slots, related to environmental criteria (noise, local air pollution, climate change and energy consumption), but they were rejected by the tran committee vote. greens/efa supported this report.
in writing. − today the european parliament gave its green light to the new regulation governing the allocation of slots at eu airports, aiming at increasing airport capacity and decreasing delays. the text provides several new elements to the existing allocation regime. firstly, a secondary trading market for slots has been introduced. this measure will allow airlines to adjust their slot portfolios according to their operational needs, while guaranteeing a proper use of the slot and enhancing the development of airport infrastructures and services. these exchanges must take place under the close supervision of airport coordinators, so that the procedure for the sale or purchase of a slot complies with the rules and with maximum transparency. to ensure the process, the coordinators’ full independence is key to strengthening the slot allocation system and its transparency. another innovative element is constituted by the provision of a more incisive and effective sanctions regime against the so-called ‘bad users’, i.e. those carriers operating air services without a corresponding slot or when the use of the slot differs significantly from the scheduling period of the slot.
in writing. - this report does not guarantee an improvement in the situation of people living near airports. these people must be able to rely on clear regulations when dealing with such important issues as noise near their home or possible negative airport expansions for nearby populations. this is the case of one of the airports in galicia, alvedro (a coruña), where the citizens' mobilization against the enlargement was almost unanimous in the surrounding populations. the leichtfried report also makes its application conditional on the supervision of several bodies, making it difficult to establish a clear standard which also lays down measures to reduce the impact of polluting emissions from aircraft. it should be recalled that this legislation will only affect civil aviation aircraft flights, an example of the large number of exceptions set out in the report. in addition, the member states will have the final say in accordance with their legislation. reason enough to vote against it.
in writing. − against. regrettably the overarching focus of the legislation on airport operation is aimed at boosting airport capacity, which is ultimately at odds with citizens’ concerns on noise and its health effects, as well as being bad for the environment. despite some cosmetic changes, the proposed rules on airport noise still foresee provisions, allowing the eu commission to intervene to oppose operating restrictions at airports. airports that want to introduce night-time flight bans, which are clearly in the interests of local citizens, could be challenged by the commission. this approach is designed to favour increasing eu airport capacity and comes at the expense of good regional practice for airport noise reduction.
in writing. − i welcome the vote on noise but i as i stated since the beginning, in my view: the right of scrutiny introduced in this process was essential to ensure that the balanced approach is used to identify the most cost-effective measures as intended. without this measure, all stakeholders are exposed to the possibility of rushed, arbitrary, or discriminatory selection of mitigation measures. since the beginning, i feared that there was some misunderstanding about what the european commission was proposing to scrutinise, precisely the process and not the substance and final local decision. the argument on the possibility for the european commission to question a compromise reached at local level is not valid. indeed, the european commission can only give an opinion on the procedure and not on the nature of the measure adopted. it is the only means to make sure that competent authorities tackle the issue of land-use planning. as a catalan from barcelona, you can imagine how much i care about the principle of subsidiarity; however i still believe that the right of scrutiny gives the commission the ability to provide oversight on behalf of all stakeholders (citizens as well ) and in my view this is a positive element.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because it contains important elements for the development of a complete and novel european statistical programme, such as references to gender equality, with a view to the production of future gender specific statistics. in addition, economic, social and environmental indicators on the different issues will be included. measuring environmental sustainability, quality of life or social cohesion will, with this new regulation, complement the classic economic indicators. in times of crisis, this report also explicitly refers to poverty indicators and includes the distinction between full-time and part-time employment. in terms of transparency, it also seeks to improve the quality of the eurostat website for non-professional users. finally, i think it is a good thing that subnational authorities are included in the production of statistics at european level in order to improve their quality and accuracy.
in writing. − in favour. green priorities were to a large extent taken on board at committee level, and resulted in satisfactory compromises in the final deal, covering amongst other things: enshrining the principles of relevance, accuracy and reliability, timeliness and punctuality, accessibility and clarity and coherence and comparability; references to gender equality, including the need for gender-disaggregated data; the need for economic, social and environmental indicators to all be treated on an equal footing; highlighting the need to pioneer the development of reliable indicators able to meet the challenges of the 21st century, namely measuring environmental sustainability, quality of life and social cohesion, promoted as a complement to classical economic indicators, and recording distinctly economic activity in the tertiary sector and the social economy; explicit reference to poverty indicators.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur and support the report. we must introduce mechanisms to ensure that capital movements contribute to human development, to overcoming the existing inequalities between peoples and social sectors and to environmental balance, and to restrict purely speculative movements. we need democratic control and social sense for international capital movements and that is why it is urgent to establish the tobin tax and to apply the revenue collected to ensure a less unfair distribution of the costs of the financial crisis. all this is part of the agreement approved by the basque parliament in june 2002 to request the european institutions to intervene in this regard. ten years later we know that, in addition to fair, it is necessary. that is why many of us also consider it urgent. we don't have another ten years to take the next step.
in writing. - we support this report because it complements the important decision we took in this parliament a few months ago. the revenue from capital must help to get out of the crisis, as our citizens already do, day after day, by paying direct and indirect taxes. this is why financial transactions within the eu framework should be added (not excluded) to the state competences in the field of financial activities. this step must be applied to all eu member states, otherwise we will be faced with another failure of democracy against the big interests that are pressing the governments of the states and the european commission.
in writing. − in favour. today’s vote clears the way for europe’s ftt vanguard to push ahead and ensure the planned financial transaction tax is implemented as soon as possible. the 11 member states will become the first area to have a transaction tax crossing national borders, making it an important step as part of the push for a global ftt. hopefully, more eu members will join as soon as possible. the greens have long advocated an ftt both to help curb risky financial speculation and to generate much-needed revenue from an under-taxed financial sector for pressured exchequers. the greens hope the final ftt will be as broad as possible: it should cover not only shares but also bonds and derivatives, and there should be no exemption of pension funds. the ftt should also include provisions on an ‘issuance principle’, whereby financial institutions located outside of the participating states would also be obliged to pay the ftt if they traded securities originally issued within the eu. this will also make it more attractive for other member states outside the initial 11 to join.
in writing. − in favour. today’s vote sends a strong message that we need to strengthen eu rules on animal transport to give greater attention to animal welfare concerns. while this is clearly welcome, we regret the failure of a majority of meps to support a clear call for an 8-hour limit on animal transport times. long distance transport of animals, often in poor conditions, leads to distress for the animals involved. the greens believe current eu legislation needs to be improved, with a view to ensuring less-crowded transport conditions and better protection for wounded animals. clearly the actual journey time is one of the major animal welfare issues with regard to animal transport. limiting transport times to 8 hours in the eu would be a major step forward to this end and we regret the failure of meps to clearly support this call. this remains the elephant in the room and the elephant doesn’t want to continue spending hours on end cooped up in a lorry. meps have however called for other measures aimed at reducing transport times, for example ensuring that animals are slaughtered locally. this would naturally be an important improvement.
in writing. − all the regulation that we discuss has to be done listening carefully to everyone. for me, in this case, the scientific point of view was not listened to enough. we cannot regulate on something only because we like it without listening carefully to all sides. indeed, animal welfare, and in this case, the protection of animals during transport, is important and that is why a very careful scientifically-based approach is needed.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because it accurately illustrates the reality of the fundamental rights situation in the european union, including the final text of the report also the discrimination existing in the area of lgbt rights. it is also very interesting that this parliament is publicly proposing that the tensions between economic freedoms and fundamental rights be resolved in accordance with the law, and not just in the judicial sphere. supporting the people's europe is supporting a transparent and civic europe which respects fundamental rights. the challenge for all of us is to denounce the opacity of some eu bodies or their lack of transparency or openness. in addition, the dialogue between the commission and the member states should be more transparent, as it is one of the most important political activities of the eu. i also think it is good that the situation of the roma, which is so closely linked to european history, is explicitly recognised in order to eliminate the discrimination which has been practised for centuries and which has sometimes been permitted by the institutions of the member states. this should be extended, as the report says, to other minorities or national minority communities that exist throughout the european union.
in writing. − in favour. the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu by ms flašíková beňová covers the years 2010 and 2011. a high number of amendments were tabled (459 amendments), 88 of which our shadow co-signed with the rapporteur and alde shadow and an additional 26 were submitted on behalf of the greens/efa group; 5 amendments were co-signed by our shadow, raul romeva and ulrike lunacek concerning lgbt rights; 5 were co-signed by jean lambert concerning gender equality, sexual and reproductive rights. the report has a distinct green colour, as our proposals and all of our amendments except two had the support of the rapporteur and were thus voted in the text in committee. the report, as well as being strategic, is important as it consolidates ep positions on fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law within the eu. the previous report (gál, 2009) had included a mention of article 7 teu, which provided the basis for the plenary resolution that initiated the current tavares report on the situation of fundamental rights in hungary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of paragraph 56 of this report because i am in favour of respect for linguistic minorities and of their being reflected in the constitutions of the member states, as is the case in spain.
i am very pleased that mr tavares began his speech by recalling the figure of albert hirschman, who was not only a very influential economist and social thinker, but who at the age of 22 volunteered to defend the spanish republic against fascism. i think hirschman often said that interests and values should not be set against each other, because values are, after all, interests. i believe that this is the basic point of reference for the european union's human rights strategy. because advancing this defence is not only a duty for europeans, in a way, a recourse to the history of europeans. it is also a factor that plays into the interests of europe and europeans. we therefore welcome the report by mr tavares and have emphasized some aspects of improving the union's activities in this field, mainly to improve the efficiency, consistency and visibility of the union's action. we had a solemn session this morning to award the sakharov prize to mrs sotoudeh and mr panahi, and i think that this should be a stimulus to make progress on this particular improvement. we have emphasized four very specific aspects. the first is a call for greater coordination between the action of the union and that of the member states. the appointment of mr lambrinidis as special representative can be an important factor in this direction. the second aspect is the coherence between the policies we advocate abroad and those we practise within the european borders. the third is to try to make the annual assessment of relations and dialogues with third countries as objective as possible. finally, there is a fourth aspect on which i would like to place particular emphasis. i believe we have within our reach a goal that is historically comparable to the abolition of slavery: the universal abolition of the death penalty. i think this objective should be in the minds of all of us to make the european union the main protagonist in this historic objective which is possible and achievable.
mr president, welcome to our debate, mr lambrinidis. i have been asked to speak on this subject. respect for human rights and democracy is one of the hallmarks of the european union and should, of course, be a very important part of our external action. this is the subject of the donskis and tavares reports on which we shall be voting tomorrow. i would like to make a very brief general comment. we all know that human rights are universal and indivisible, but we are also aware that in today's multipolar world some emerging countries do not share our view of the paramount importance of respecting freedoms. however, we must cooperate with these important countries, for example, to tackle global challenges. in addition, our dependence on the outside world for energy, our position as the world's leading trading power and the phenomenon of globalisation all force us to interact with the rest of the world. the treaty on european union is aware of this complex situation. it recognizes the important objective of supporting democracy and human rights, but it is right, for example, in articles 3 and 21, to include other objectives: interests, security, independence, strategy. in conclusion, what we need is for the european union to pursue - and i know that this is difficult - a foreign policy which, on the basis of our values, is intelligent and effective and capable of integrating in a balanced way the various objectives, including the defence of human rights and democracy. the european parliament, which is the creator of the sakharov prize and is certainly very sensitive to respect for human rights, must cooperate within its powers.
i would like to take this opportunity to greet a group of neighbours from the town of boadilla del monte in madrid, which is also where i live. welcome to this important debate.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this very important and timely debate and thank you to mr swoboda, because it was your report which led to this very lively debate. you have raised a number of concerns regarding russia – concerns about development – and we share those concerns as well. many of you raised the issues of visas. i am currently very engaged in that. we have a dialogue on visa facilitation. we hope that we can upgrade that and enable russian citizens to come to europe at less cost and with less bureaucracy. the discussion on visa liberalisation is done through a document called a list of common steps. it is an important way to support reform when it comes to reform of the judicial and asylum system, the fight against corruption, human rights, etc., and we have slow, steady progress on that, and the pace of that will of course determine when it is time to lift visas totally. on the magnitsky case, i have personally raised this case on numerous occasions with the ministry of justice of russia. the eu is following this case very closely and we have, together with the vice-president and mr van rompuy, urged russia to ensure a comprehensive investigation of this case into the death of sergei magnitsky and also to make sure that those responsible are brought to justice. a new agreement with russia should be the backbone of our relationship. it has to be comprehensive, ambitious and based on shared values. we in the external action service and the commission look forward to having a continual dialogue with the european parliament on how these negotiations develop, in general and beyond next week’s summit. as for further engagement, we must continue focusing on concrete issues which need to be resolved, particularly those where russia is not delivering on its commitments. at the same time we cannot let various difficulties get in the way of us developing a more strategic partnership with russia. many of you have called for that. we must look less at the short term and more at the long term, developing a clear vision of where we want to go with russia and how. needless to say, the european parliament has a very important role to play in this context. you have all in this house tonight confirmed the strong message on the fundamental importance of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. this is primarily about defending our shared values but also about promoting our interests and also russia’s interests. russia’s modernisation efforts cannot succeed unless they are built on the rule of law and the active support of its citizens. moreover, many european companies would simply not be ready to participate in the modernisation of russia without a strengthened rule of law, a determined fight against corruption and a predictable business climate. so there is a lot to do. we need patience, but in the meantime we should also do what is possible to move on with the relationship, focusing on real common interests, shared values, deeper economic ties, more people-to-people contact and closer cooperation on the international scheme. thank you very much for this debate ladies and gentlemen.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in egypt.
mr president, i think we should not overlook the fact that, in connection with the constitutional referendum in egypt, the opposition has renounced its boycott of the referendum and that, in the absence of an eu election observation mission, the egyptian authorities have offered to receive the organisations and members concerned so that they can assess without prejudice the context, conditions and development of the consultation. i think this is an opportunity which this parliament should not waste.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the council on its firm and courageous conclusions on israel's intention to expand its settlements in defiance of the two-state solution. we condemn the plan to expand the settlements in area e1, which on the one hand breaks the territorial unity of palestine and on the other threatens to displace 2 300 bedouin, most of them refugees and children. we continue to condemn the settlements in area c, where european infrastructure projects, particularly solar plants, which are crucial for the development of the palestinian people, are in danger. and, by the way, within the framework of european aid, the eu bam mission should be reactivated. and we have talked about the aeca here. well, then, in the interests of consistency in the european union's external action and respect for international law, all agreements between the european union and israel must state unequivocally and explicitly that they do not apply to the territories occupied since 1967: the golan heights, the west bank, including east jerusalem, and the gaza strip. and, mr lieberman, the world is not prepared to sacrifice israel, that is not the intention of the council conclusions or the european parliament resolution, but it is also not prepared for you to sacrifice palestine.
congratulations to palestine on its new international status. and in the face of this recognition, does israel approve of the increase in settlements and the implementation of international blackmail? the israeli settlements in the palestinian territories are illegal and, above all, immoral. checkpoints, controls, borders, walls of shame, apartheid, entire neighborhoods wiped off the map, homes and businesses closed, streets banned under the pretext of the safety of the settlement dwellers. always the security. israel, once again crossing all boundaries. security, gentlemen, cannot be the excuse for peace. europe must now send a strong and responsible signal.
i am here to listen to you, to hear your explanations, but also to let you know that, even at this late hour, we are members of the european parliament who want to hear those explanations on such an important matter. what we once called the arab spring has long since become a winter of discontent, a bloody winter, with a terrible bloodshed that only comes to the fore in the news and in the news when it is accompanied by terrible devastation. but the fact is that it has caused no less than 250 000 displaced persons, 80 000 of them in turkey, and a good number of them also at the european union border, putting pressure on greece, as if it did not have enough problems, as if it did not know that there is a european authority that is willing to learn from recent experiences, from the uncharacteristic exercise of solidarity that we practised when immigration occurred as a result of the events in tunisia or libya, or in relation to people arriving in lampedusa. this is the moment when it is imperative that we say with all clarity that we are determined to live up to our solidarity commitment in terms of concrete achievements, in terms of concrete actions, with resources commensurate with the need for that response. the question with a request for an oral answer is therefore quite logical: what does the commission intend to do to prevent this flood of immigrants from reaching europe's borders, and to show solidarity with the countries that are already suffering directly and in person: lebanon, iraq, jordan, turkey, as you have said.
madam president, madam president-in-office of the council, we appreciate your explanations, but we have been following this problem closely and the question relates above all to those asylum seekers we have at our borders. the temporary protection directive, which we are told is now going to be implemented, was not implemented in the lampedusa case and also led to the closure of schengen borders, giving rise to the immense debate we have had since. it was not launched at that time, when there were 20,000 people in lampedusa who had come from the tunisian revolution. we now have practically 18 000 people - 16 000 he said - but they are almost 18 000 and they are not on an island, they are lost in europe, because the granting of asylum is still minimal. the problem is that we are told that there is a regional protection programme - the president-in-office of the council has said so - that it is ready - i wish it were ready! - but we do not yet know what that programme will consist of. and he tells us, mrs malmström, that he is not going to send back the syrians, but we should not send back the afghans, or the iraqis, or all those in detention centres. what are we going to do with them, if it's not three months, six months, but twelve months that they're in prison? in prison! because they're euphemistically called detention centers. what are we going to do if we do not immediately grant them the protection they demand? that is a disgrace to europe. that's what we have to solve: the situation they're in. fortunately, two detention centres have been closed in greece, because they were not detention centres, they were not prisons, they were dungeons, and that is a disgrace to our european civilization. and of course anyone who is claiming asylum could be worthy of a sakharov prize. if we are aware of that, we could actually solve this problem. if we don't have a conscience, no matter how much rhetoric we say and do, we're not going to solve it.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the recommendation by tatjana ždanoka, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the draft council decision establishing a multiannual framework for the european union agency for fundamental rights for the period 2013-2017 (10449/2012 - c7-0169/2012 - 2011/0431 (app)) (a7-0361/2012)).
i see that mr zijlstra wishes to put a question to mrs sargentini under the 'blue card' procedure, but he is on the list to speak later, so if he asks a question now he loses his turn to speak later and i imagine he does not want to miss that turn.
i see that there is a request from mr tannock to put a question to mr bufton under the 'blue card' procedure. mr tannock, if you ask this question, you lose your turn to speak later as a speaker with your allotted time of one and a half minutes. i want to point this out to you because you're probably more interested in intervening later than not asking the question now.
mr pirker asked to put a question under the 'blue card' procedure, but he has already spoken before, so i will not give him the floor.
i do not want to leave without wishing you and the commissioner a happy end of year and a successful and happy new year, both personally and institutionally. i would also like to say that, as you have seen, there is a certain lack of coordination between the vice-presidents and the president himself in their interpretation of the use of the 'blue card' and 'catch the eye' procedures. i will again ask the bureau to make an effort to harmonise the interpretation of these two procedures because this lack of coordination is leading to vice-presidents or the president himself using them very differently from the way we do others, that we pay close attention to the use of time and the time used by each member and each group and in particular those members who are in the debates or who are not and only appear to ask a question or to put their name on the list for the 'catch the eye' procedure. i also thank you for your patience and understanding in the way i have been carrying out the presidency over these months.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner reding, you have finished talking about a europe that creates jobs. but the problem, commissioner, is that two million additional jobs have been destroyed in europe in the last year, and that two million jobs lost are already affecting the longterm unemployed and young people who are finishing their studies or who have not finished their training. we have a chronic problem that is structural. i know that you share our concern, but we have an added one, and that is that, despite this reality, you continue to say that the proposed measures must be carried out. how long, mrs reding? how long are we going to keep on "running" the "spanish language, so rich"? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. how long are we going to wait for the accumulation of data on economic and social tragedies to change policies? it is a cry, mrs. reding. i bring questions here that are on the street. it is a cry, but it hits the walls of the council and the commission, which are behind ideological walls that prevent them from changing. when are they going to make anti-cyclical policies? if you continue to pursue the same policies, you will continue to increase recession, unemployment and misery. you have to change. you have finished talking about the european budget, but how can we defend a budget? what investments are there in that european budget? if it's less money than we had before. how can we continue to believe in a policy that leads us to disaster? how can we, as mrs ferreira has said, not demand - and you do not demand - that the countries that can increase their demand? because it's a demand problem, not just a supply problem. demand is sinking; businesses are closing because there is no demand. tell your colleague, mr rehn, that when social benefits are cut in spain, he does not applaud for half an hour, because they are destroying demand and destroying people's lives and destroying businesses and jobs for millions. mrs reding, as much as you ask for flexibility, please be flexible and attend to the facts and not to ideological prejudices.
mr president, in the face of such absurd austerity, we should go back, now that we are thinking so much about the origins of europe, to our own origins. europe was built to defend coal and steel, and we should once again defend the coal and steel industries and not allow offshoring.
in writing. - i'm with you. we deeply regret the lack of agreement in the council on the inclusion in the new multiannual framework of the proposed new thematic areas on political and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. as a consequence of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, political and judicial cooperation in criminal matters has become part of union law and is therefore included in the scope of the tasks of the agency. we are also concerned about the message sent by the council, which prevents a constructive contribution to strengthening the protection of fundamental rights in the eu. we are also concerned about the known attempts by several member states in the council to exclude discrimination based on membership of a national minority from the thematic areas. such attempts are unacceptable. the european union is founded on the values of respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities (article 2 of the treaty on european union).
in writing. - i'm with you. the institutions to which a written declaration is addressed must inform parliament of the intended follow-up within three months of receipt of the declaration in question. it is necessary to reach agreement with the commission on this principle in the forthcoming negotiations on the revision of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the commission.
in writing. - with regard to the donskis report on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world (2011) and the european union's policy on the subject, we wish to state, on behalf of the spanish epp delegation, that, although we supported the report in the final vote today, we do not agree with the references to sexual and reproductive health and rights in paragraphs 122, 123, 124 and 125. these are ambiguous terms, often used to refer to sensitive issues which are a matter of individual conscience and which are beyond the competence of the european union institutions. we have therefore asked for a separate vote and voted against these paragraphs.
in writing. − my vote was in favour because our proposal about western sahara was accepted, in which we express our concern at the deterioration of human rights in this part of the world. we call for the fundamental rights of the people of western sahara, including freedom of association, freedom of expression and the right to demonstrate, to be respected. the report also: demands the release of all sahrawi political prisoners, and the opening of the territory to independent observers, ngos, and the media; reiterates its support for the establishment of an international mechanism to monitor human rights in the western sahara; and supports a fair and lasting settlement of the conflict on the basis of the right to self-determination of the sahrawi people, in accordance with the relevant united nations resolutions.
in writing. for meps today made a clear call for a more coherent eu approach to human rights. we welcome the strong support for this report and the other european institutions should take note. the report makes strategic recommendations for european human rights policy to take account of the effects of the current economic crisis and the impact of the crisis on the eu's political weight in the world. the report also criticises the lack of cooperation and integration in the field of human rights between the departments of the main european institutions and makes proposals to remedy this, also calling for enhanced cooperation with the council of europe. in particular, in the area of relations with third countries, the report calls for the adoption of a set of minimum human rights criteria and for the inclusion of binding human rights clauses in all eu agreements.
in writing. the report makes strategic recommendations for european human rights policy to take account of the effects of the current economic crisis and the impact of the crisis on the eu's political weight in the world. we support this report, which is critical of the lack of cooperation and integration in the field of human rights between the departments of the main european institutions and which proposes to strengthen cooperation with the council of europe to remedy this. in the area of relations with third countries, the report calls for the adoption of a set of minimum human rights criteria and for the inclusion of binding human rights clauses in all eu agreements. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the report calls on the european commission to submit a legislative proposal obliging european companies to ensure that when they buy from third countries, the money paid does not end up in the pockets of those responsible for conflicts or human rights abuses.
in writing. for the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. this should go hand in hand with greater transparency. the report also calls on the european commission to submit a legislative proposal obliging european companies to ensure that when they buy from third countries, the money paid does not end up in the pockets of those responsible for conflicts or human rights abuses.
in writing. - i'm with you. the continuing intimidation, harassment and detention of representatives of opposition forces and ngos, the recent enactment of laws on ngo funding and the right to assembly, the law on defamation and the law on internet restrictions, as well as the growing pressure on the free and independent media and on minority groups on the basis of their sexual orientation or religious beliefs, result in a steady deterioration of the situation of human rights and democratic principles in russia, and require us to pay particular attention to the requirements that the eu intends to establish with regard to the observance of democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law, and to make such observance an absolute prerequisite for the signing of the eu-russia agreement.
in writing. - i'm with you. this resolution allows us to emphasize that israeli settlements in the west bank and east jerusalem are illegal under international law. the resolution calls for an immediate, total and permanent halt to all israeli settlement building and expansion activities, and for an end to the eviction of palestinian families from their homes and the demolition of palestinian homes. it also condemned the statements made by hamas political leader khaled meshal, in which he denied recognition of the state of israel and clearly rejected any israeli presence in jerusalem, and called on hamas to recognise israel's right to exist. the resolution also deplores the decision of the israeli government to withhold us$ 100 million of palestinian tax revenue, which weakens the budget of the palestinian authority, and calls for the immediate transfer of this revenue.
in writing. - i'm with you. the osce/odihr and international election observers noted that the elections in ukraine were characterised by media imbalance, mismanagement of the composition of the electoral commissions, lack of transparency in party funding, abuse of administrative resources and unequal conditions, also reflected in the absence of the main opposition candidates, who were imprisoned for political reasons, which is a step backwards compared to other recent general elections. therefore, effective cooperation between ukraine and the european union can only be achieved on the basis of a clear will on the part of the ukrainian authorities to undertake and implement the necessary reforms, in particular as regards the legal and judicial system, with a view to fully respecting the principles of democracy, human rights, fundamental freedoms, minority rights and the rule of law.
in writing. − in favour. the report strongly supports the commission’s assessment that albania should be granted candidate status provided that key reforms in the judiciary, public administration and a revision of parliamentary rules of procedure are completed and adopted. the report therefore calls on the council to grant albania candidate status once the commission has confirmed progress in these areas. paragraph two of the report is crucial as it refers to the political culture of the country. still too many actors perceive politics and especially elections a zero sum game, compromises are being perceived as defeat. it encourages ‘all political parties and actors in albania (...) including the media and civil society (to) strive to improve the political climate in the country to enable dialogue and mutual understanding’. in the next paragraphs the report reminds the political elite in the country of the need to implement amendments proposed by osce/odihr on an electoral legislative framework in order to guarantee free and fair elections in 2013.
in writing. - i'm with you. however, we would have preferred our motion for a resolution to have succeeded, in which we pointed out the importance of the steel industry to the economy of the european union and to all the sectors which use its products, as illustrated by the important role of steel production in the development of renewable energy technologies. in this resolution, we highlighted the difficulties facing the steel industry in many eu member states, partly due to the rise in raw material prices, the fall in global demand and the increase in energy-related costs, and we also called on the commission, the council and the member states to monitor the challenges facing the steel industry and, where appropriate, to integrate these issues into the development of relevant policies and legislation. we stressed the need for a better coordinated eu industrial policy to prevent further relocations of steelworks and steel production outside the eu, and in this regard supported the commission's initiative to develop a european steel action plan by 2013.
in writing. - i'm with you. the petitioners have strongly expressed their concern about the extremely high levels of dioxin emissions from the ilva steel mill in taranto, emissions which have had and continue to have a considerable and persistent harmful impact on the health of the local population. in this area, 20 000 families have a member who has worked in the steel industry or in related activities. the levels of pollution among the local population have led to unacceptable and intolerable rates of health problems and chronic diseases. we therefore call on the commission and the council in the resolution to develop a new policy for the steel industry that will promote growth and jobs during the economic crisis and is compatible with the health and safety of all eu citizens and residents, and to work with all stakeholders to ensure that this policy coherently combines economic objectives with social and environmental priorities, so as to build a modern, competitive and sustainable european steel industry that fully respects eu environmental legislation.
