i thank you very much, mr president, and i take note of that. the polls are closed. the results of the election will be announced tonight. if a third ballot is necessary, it will be held in the morning. (the sitting was suspended at 9.40 p.m. and resumed at 10.40 p.m.)
president
i am pleased to announce the results of the second round of the elections for the office of vice-president of the european parliament. the number of votes cast: 637vote-by-vote: 8vote-by-vote: 629the absolute majority is therefore 315 votes. i announce the results in alphabetical order of the candidates: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is not in a position to do so. the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the i note that no candidate in the second round of voting has achieved the necessary absolute majority of the votes cast. this leaves all 14 seats to be filled in the election of vice-presidents unfilled.
i think the problem is solved. but i'm willing to read the results again. i shall now proceed to announce the other procedural requirements. as all 14 seats remain vacant, a third round of voting is required. this third ballot will take place here tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. i would point out that in the third round of voting a relative majority is required, i.e. not a quorum of an absolute majority, but the relative majority of the votes cast. i now ask which candidates are going to stand for a third term. (the president asked the candidates present by name in alphabetical order.)
mr president, how much time do i need before tomorrow morning? or in the morning?
mr tarand, please let us know by 8 a.m. tomorrow morning whether you are still a candidate. the session services inform me that we do not need a new deadline for submission, but that the candidates proposed now will remain proposed for a third ballot unless they explicitly declare that they withdraw their candidacy.
mr president, i have noticed that only one-fifth of the vice-presidential candidates are women, and in order to increase their share in the candidacies i would like to withdraw my candidacy in favour of proper gender balance. i am slightly surprised that my male colleagues, for instance from hungary, the czech republic, italy and greece, have not taken this opportunity. i am definitely withdrawing my candidacy on the condition that we seek a better gender balance and that we look for 14 colleagues who will assume their membership of the bureau and take on board the topic of fighting against bill gates’ microsoft monopoly of internet systems. i thank, once more, all the colleagues for voted for me – who trusted me as an independent candidate – and i promise we will continue to make the case for proper democracy inside and outside this house.
in writing. – in the well-prepared presidency programme there is almost no reference to the regional policy. true, several items in the programme have regional dimension. however, one expects a vision of the increasing role of the eu macro regional strategies, such as the eu strategy for the baltic sea region (eusbsr). the polish presidency has been active on this issue and its input requires continuation. the eusbsr is a unique opportunity to implement plans for stronger europe, concretely in the baltic sea region which is a dynamic area and least affected by current euro crisis. we expect from the danish presidency a clear agenda and better coordination of the eusbsr projects presented by eight member states around the baltic sea. i welcome danish emphasis on creating a genuine digital single market. to boost cross-border business making, especially in e-commerce, one has to reduce decisively legislative and administrative barriers. this is a must if the eu is serious about reviving its economies and restoring its competitiveness on global markets. lastly, cyber security is not once mentioned in the danish programme. one looks forward to concrete plans on strengthening cyber security which is still lagging dramatically behind the technical development of threats.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution. eu needs to find a solution to the euro zone problems and to implement measures ensuring full fiscal discipline in the future. this can effectively only be done through community method and acknowledging the primacy of eu law. only this will guarantee the credibility of the actions and tangible results. i reiterate the ep call to the council that the agreement must be in conformity with eu law, in particular as regards the figures in the stability and growth pact, following eu legal procedures and excluding any double standards. democratic accountability must be guaranteed by strengthening the involvement of both the european parliament and the national parliaments, at their respective levels, in all aspects of european economic coordination and governance. the most important concern is not to split the eu 27. the non-euro zone members need to participate in the meetings of 17. the other need is to avoid as much as possible creation of new institutions and mechanisms. the third challenge is to promote parallel to financial discipline closer convergence and stronger competitiveness.
in writing. – i would like to express my deep concern over the direction in which mr orbán’s government is currently leading hungary. one can always find one-sided justifications for different measures that the government is taking and the methods it is pursuing, but at the moment these justifications do not reflect the democratic values that we stand for as europeans. it seems that mr orbán has forgotten that democracy is not only the rule of the majority, but also the respect and protection of the minority. it is also important to understand that hungary, as a member state, has an obligation to follow the principles enshrined in the treaty of the european union and thus have its legislation adhere to the teu, the tfeu and other international treaties and obligations. i sincerely hope that mr orbán can comprehend our reservations and will act accordingly to re-route hungary away from becoming an autocratic country and back onto the track of democracy. i must reiterate that the situation in hungary is not an internal matter of the member state, but it is a concern for all of us, since the treaties are being disregarded.
in writing. − i voted in favour of mr bové's report on the supply chain of agricultural inputs, its structure and its effects, because before the single agricultural reform we need to think seriously about how we can increase the competitiveness and incomes of farmers. i must emphasise the need for greater cooperation and organisation among farmers, for example by collectively buying and storing inputs, cooperating to make better use of resources, etc. another way to increase farmers' incomes is to focus on reducing production costs. production has become significantly more expensive for farmers in the last 10 years, as a result of the increase in the overall energy price. in order to bridge the cost-benefit gap to some extent, farmers need to implement more energy and resource-saving measures in their production processes. consequently, in addition to collecting input and input data, it is necessary to provide guidance to european farmers on best production methods and practices, as set out in this report.
in writing. - i support the report by mr caronna entitled 'strategy to prevent food waste and increase efficiency in the food chain in the eu', because i believe that food waste is a pressing contemporary problem which has not received sufficient attention. as living standards rise, we enjoy the availability of more and more choice and aesthetic food, but we think less and less about the wise use of food. this is particularly the case where the actual extent of food waste is invisible to the average consumer, as most of it occurs during the production and transportation phases of food. in addition, consumers have become increasingly demanding in their perception of the appearance of food, and many foods that are perfectly fit for consumption are thrown away because of their purely unsuitable appearance. we also have no argument against selling food that is nearing its expiry date to consumers who are willing to buy it at a lower price or distributing it as a free food aid. measures to prevent food waste are simple and exist (buying the right amount of food, buying food produced by the producer closest to the consumer, storing food properly, etc.), but they must also be adopted by as many consumers as possible and implemented by food producers, suppliers and sellers.
in writing. – more europe is the answer! finally the member states have taken their responsibility by signing the fiscal treaty. strict rules and fiscal discipline and joint efforts as the whole eu are crucial. signs of protectionism and egoism have no place if the european project wants to succeed. completion of the single market – loosing barriers to cross-border trade and services, completing the single digital market – is the key for future success. doing business, using services, getting a job should be equally easy and accessible in the whole eu. the strong language on this must be transmitted to the official spring council conclusions! smes as drivers and backbone of the european economy suffer the most under unnecessary burdens and rules. simplified procedures and exemptions are needed to enable the smes to pursue and focus on their main business instead of filling in administrative forms. easy access to financing both from public and private sources will ensure sustainable and competitive smes. youth unemployment has reached more than 30% in eight member states. we have to enforce measures to enable easy access to labour market and quality jobs, significantly increasing the offer for apprenticeships and internships for young people, working together with the social partners.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − i could not agree with you more: it is terrible that the death penalty should still exist in our neighbourhood. i passionately believe that there should be a universal moratorium on the death penalty – especially in a case like this in belarus, where the situation is frankly deteriorating and where i am extremely worried about what is happening to ordinary people, to civil society, as that country frankly fails to understand the opportunity of the relationship with the european union, and fails to live up to its obligations. i do know about the two young men – i think mr konovalov’s mother was here recently. we are watching this very closely. we have made it very clear that we do not believe that the death penalty should be used in any circumstances, but it is especially worrying in the current climate and situation in belarus.
i would like to return to my colleague mr stevenson’s question because i think the un mediation negotiated by mr kobler has not provided sufficient guarantees for the safety and freedom of choice for more than 3 000 people there. this is contrary to the position taken by parliament several years ago, because the iraqi authorities have clearly violated the relocation programme, launching missile attacks against the camp. i think the role of your representatives has lately been rather marginalised because they have even been denied a visa for iraq. i put it to you that, if you say that the relocation to camp liberty is the way for the future, i think it is a very ominous way. i urgently call upon you to use your authority, to speak more vocally and more decisively to solve this humanitarian crisis, which is still pending, because these are people who have consistently advocated a truly democratic, secular and nuclear-free iran, which is what we need.
in writing. – the reports relating to the development of the nuclear programme in iran have recently become very alarming. the country has disregarded her commitment to the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons as well as a number of united nations resolutions. iran constitutes a serious threat in the region and the implications of such a strained situation will have their reflection at a global level. i endorse all possible sanctions against iran as well as other diplomatic measures that can be taken in order to make tehran see that we are serious and that we do not hesitate to ‘put our money where our mouth is’. however, i must caution against reacting to any provocations or engaging in any military action. the region is a barrel of gunpowder and i am deeply concerned that when it goes off we will not be able to keep it under control. therefore, let us be alert, yet not neurotic. i look forward to the high representative reaching an agreement with the minister of foreign affairs of the russian federation on a joint resolution on iran at the un security council.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, when societies change, political systems need to change too. more often than not, making these changes is less risky and uncertain than not making them. honourable members will recall that we debated russia in our strasbourg session on 13 december 2011, and the concerns that were raised in this house about the duma elections were raised with president medvedev at our summit that followed shortly afterwards. you will recall that those concerns focused in particular on the exclusion of parties from the elections. president medvedev talked to us about those concerns and explained that a necessary political evolution was taking place. he said this was due to improved living standards, a more active civil society, and the development of social media, and he emphasised that the government was drawing lessons. some limited political reforms have been launched, and yet the protests that began in december, we see, are set to continue. the movement has grown. we can expect a large mobilisation this coming saturday, 4 february. the announcement, made in tandem in september, that the president and prime minister will swap jobs again made many russian citizens feel that things were being decided between just two people, over the heads of voters. there is a growing group of people calling for real participation, for more decisive measures to rein in corruption and impunity, and for more breathing space for democratic processes. they are ready to express these opinions peacefully. nevertheless, they want to see real change; and osce observers have raised real issues about registration, about access to electronic media, and about the lack of separation between state and governing party. we are moving forward to engage in dialogue with the protestors and, of course, the opposition. the next benchmark will be the presidential elections on 4 march 2012. we welcome the fact that an invitation has been extended again to the osce and others to observe these elections, but expectations will be higher this time. regrettably, issues of registration have arisen again, in relation to the presidential elections. i call on the authorities responsible to review, as a matter of urgency, the decision not to register grigory yavlinsky. the russian leadership should now act swiftly on the problems identified by the osce, and do its utmost in the short time left to hold free and fair presidential elections next month. russia and the eu face challenges also on the international scene. recently, differences have emerged about how to deal with the growing crisis in syria. with thousands of people killed and violence escalating across syria, we strongly urge russia to join the international consensus and allow the security council to act on the basis of the arab league proposals and the joint draft resolution. it is true that russia disagreed with the international community’s approach to libya and said that the action taken went beyond the mandate given by the security council – i have discussed this with the foreign minister of russia, mr lavrov, several times – but it is also clear that we cannot let the syrian people pay the price for past disagreements. syria is a specific case and the solution proposed by the arab league is different from resolution 1973. as a permanent member of the security council, russia needs to take its responsibilities for international peace and security seriously. old alliances may matter, but the fate of the people of syria matters much more. having said that, experience suggests that we manage pretty well to find common ground on international affairs, be it in the middle east quartet or indeed in the e3+3 format on iran. i meet often with foreign minister lavrov and i was in moscow in november. iran is of particular concern this year. as already discussed, the lack of progress in the talks has left us with no choice but to adopt our new round of sanctions, and i have discussed in this house this evening the purpose of those sanctions and how important it is that we work closely with the e3+3 and of course, in that context, with russia. let me mention as well, in the context of our discussions on difficult issues, the important cooperation – however difficult – with russia over georgia and moldova, which are both engaged in efforts to resolve protracted conflicts. as these examples show, we work intensively with russia on international issues – albeit not without difficulty, but there is often a desire to find common ground and enable the international community to respond. it is our joint task to make sure that it responds on syria and iran this year. russia is not only a strategic partner: it is also our largest neighbour. we share close historical, cultural, social and economic ties. the eu is russia’s most important trading partner, and russia is our third largest trading partner. our last summit, in december 2011, proved that the eu’s russia policy has produced good results recently: most importantly, the world trade organization accession and agreements on aviation issues, visas and the partnership for modernisation. russia’s accession to the wto will bring the last of the major economies under a global rules-based system. the launch of the common steps towards visa-free travel opens the prospect of visas being abolished, and there was consensus at the summit that we should reinvigorate negotiations on a new agreement. to conclude, the eu approach of constructive yet critical cooperation with russia is bearing fruit. we will continue our support for modernising both russia’s economic basis and the foundations for a dynamic society oriented towards the future. we are well prepared to support and encourage a domestic political process in russia that aims to develop its democratic institutions and the rule of law, as well as a modern economy and a vibrant civil society, whose human rights are respected and whose aspirations for a more open and dynamic society are matched by the reforms undertaken by its government. mr president, i hope this will give us a good basis for our debate this evening.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, once again we find ourselves debating a russia which is struggling on its way to build a genuine democracy. every time the european parliament discusses the situation in russia, its counterparts in moscow express their discontent about foreigners getting involved in their domestic home affairs. instead of considering our constructive criticism, the russian authorities point to other issues of a completely different nature. we all know that the duma elections were neither free nor fair. the situation with the presidential elections is one of déjà vu. an absence of free media and the behaviour of the central electoral committee is depriving the electorate of the possibility of making a genuine choice. the demonstrations by russian citizens show that people want free and fair elections. we need to applaud their efforts and the maturity of civil society in russia. the attempts of prime minister putin and his court to preserve power will provoke instability that will endanger our partnership for modernisation: investors will not be attracted to corruption and the idea of russians packing their bags and fleeing the regime does not match our expectations either. legitimacy of presidential power is crucial for the development of russia, including for its status in international affairs. there are big question marks over its place in the g8 and other international fora, especially in the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. the alde group is glad to have the eeas, at least, in place, to coordinate our european policies towards russia. with one voice we can, of course, achieve more. europe needs a stable and reliable partner. however, the recent statements by mr lavrov on iran, for example, are not at all encouraging for further cooperation in the security field. we therefore wish you bon courage, madam vice-president/high representative. this parliament is ready to cooperate with you.
the european union is committed to the implementation of the eu's common foreign and security policy. it is not necessary to repeat that russia is an important economic and political player and an important partner, as it has already been mentioned several times. the human rights situation in russia is very disturbing. the opinion poll was a cynical example of how indifferent russian powers are to international standards. more than ever before, they were violated, but the protests, involving tens of thousands of russians, were not well received. we must bear witness that we hear the cry of the russian people, just as we heard the cry of the arab spring. it's not enough to say that we're going to help russia democratize if its government doesn't want it to. we must stop double standards and turning a blind eye to russia's size and resources. the increasing russian interference in the internal politics of the european union countries is alarming, proving that imperial ideas are still alive. last october, its foreign ministry launched a new strategy to increase its influence in the european union countries, first by making russian an official language of the european union. in november, the national bolsheviks in latvia began collecting signatures for a referendum on russian as a second state language, but this year, an absurd project to collect signatures as part of a citizens' initiative to obtain recognition of russian as an official language of the european union has been launched. for latvia, where the number of so-called russian speakers rose from 8% before the occupation to about 44% after it, the introduction of another national language would mean the destruction of the latvian language and thus the latvian state. russia's desire to influence european union policy goes much deeper than is often appreciated, and i urge you, the high representative, to pay attention to it, because the consequences would be extremely significant.
mr president, russia is still unfortunately declining to join the un resolution about syria and in fact is continuing to deliver arms to the syrian regime. as for the elections on 4 march, in the eyes of the governing elite the result has obviously been decided, in so far as mr medvedev’s interlude will soon be over. in the view of foreign observers there is no real chance for credible decision-making, because the december elections were assessed as neither fair nor free. the convergence of the state and the governing elite has resulted in massive rigging and manipulations. sergei kolesnikov, putin’s former ally, told us in december that putin will stop at nothing to retain power. there remains the question of the behaviour of the russian voters. here a real change has been taking place since december: a change of attitudes, mentality and hopes. anna politkovskaya’s warning more than six years ago of limitless political apathy among russian voters has finally been heeded, and the result has been massive interest in monitoring and participation. the eu now has a unique chance to influence the situation in a positive way, and i think the best way to do this is to follow the suggestions in sir graham watson’s report, to be adopted tomorrow, about consistency towards authoritarian regimes.
mr president, later today we will be discussing the own-initiative report of sir graham watson on consistent policy towards regimes against which the eu applies restrictive measures. i appreciate the growing economic importance of brics countries. however, the eu policy towards them must take into account the principles that have been outlined in sir graham’s report. european values must always take precedence over economic interests. the common values referred to in mr saryusz-wolski’s report are still in formation in these countries. the eu and the eeas should make sure that constructive partnership with brics and other emerging powers brings about the spill-over of democracy, human rights, civil liberties, the rule of law and gender equality. the future role of brics in the international arena should not be underestimated. if we cannot engage them positively, they might become extremely difficult competitors for the eu in economic terms while disregarding human values.
mr president, the european parliament came under cyber attack by anonymous last week after the eu had signed the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement in japan. meanwhile i have received a vast number of messages from eu citizens and beyond, who were concerned about their rights. i find it bizarre that the eu and 22 of its member states signed acta before addressing the concerns of the citizens in an appropriate transparent manner, as democracies should. therefore, i call on the commission and the member states to increase efforts to communicate acta to citizens and to seek their consent when it is ratified. the eu and the national governments have to reassure citizens that acta will not violate the fundamental rights to freedom of expression and privacy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. it has been long due to bring out the main weakness of the eu’s foreign policy and especially the human rights policy. it is absolutely regrettable that the eu is giving in on main values and principles, such as democracy, human rights and the rule of law with excuses of being interdependent with certain authoritarian countries. consistent sanctioning of authoritarian regimes and their main actors is one of most efficient ways to provoke a change. i very much welcome this report which calls for clear indicators and measures in defining the situation and dealing with authoritarian regimes. i call upon the council and the commission to implement and mainstream these suggestions without delay to the eu’s foreign policy, especially to trade policy with third countries. how can the eu be interdependent with a country like russia which is delivering weapons to syria that will be used to kill civilians and which is supplying materials to iran for its nuclear plans that the eu is now sanctioning? we need consistency and clear rules and we need them now!
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution. for years europe and the world have observed with growing concern the iranian nuclear plans. unfortunately until now these concerns have only resulted in declarations without actions. it is extremely important that europe has now finally decided to act and to impose clear and real sanctions upon iran. iran has to stop any nuclear plans that have military components. and it has to allow independent international specialists to observe and have a close look at its plans. the iaea has to be allowed to enter the iranian nuclear sites to see the real situation. i find it very regrettable that similar sanctions cannot be imposed at un level, due to the chinese and russian veto. the eu needs to push for consistent sanctions also at un level and remind china and russia of their obligations, and call especially on russia to halt any proliferation to iran contributing to the nuclear plans.
in writing. − i supported the adoption of this report and believe it is important to pay greater attention to the development and support of sporting activities at european union level, especially since article 165 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union gives the european union new powers to support member states' sporting activities. sport is of great importance for the maintenance and promotion of health, as the lack of physical activity has a detrimental effect on the health of european citizens. sport also has an extremely high economic impact, providing jobs directly or indirectly to 15 million europeans (or 5.4% of the working population) and added value of some eur 407 billion. as a member of the committee on gender equality, i believe it is important that studies be carried out at european level on the specific nature of women's sport, the reasons for women and girls leaving sport and the persistently unequal opportunities for women in sport. women's sport should be promoted more, as it clearly overshadows men's sport, which is why many young girls do not consider sport to be important enough. popular sports are the best preventive of various diseases, and underestimating the role of sports as a means of promoting society will pay us back very painfully in the future.
in writing. − the daphne programme has proved itself over the years and the projects carried out under it have been productive. i therefore consider it important that the programme to combat violence against children, young people and women should also be continued, albeit as part of the rights and citizenship programme from 2014. one important point highlighted in the report is the lack of data on violence against women insufficient and irregular data collection hampers the visibility of the situation and in turn makes it impossible to develop the best solutions to address violence against women. i voted in favour of the report and i support the idea that the daphne programme must continue in one form or another and that its allocated funding must not be reduced. the daphne programme and its objectives are well known, but to ensure that the programme remains as relevant and effective as ever, it needs to incorporate some new objectives, such as the eradication of auroim and fgm.
in writing. − i believe that special attention should be paid to the gender dimension in conflict situations or in societies emerging from them. since a society is composed of both men and women, the well-being of all its members must be taken into account in the reconstruction or reconstruction of states. to prevent post-war society from being designed predominantly by men, for men and for men only, and to prevent the emerging social order from reinforcing gender stereotypes, women must be increasingly involved in the regulation of the war situation, whether as negotiators, peacekeepers, senior military officials or other opinion leaders. in addition to increasing the participation of women in international teams, i also support the measures set out in the norica nicolai report 'the situation of women during war' to ensure the safety of women as vulnerable parties to war. thirdly, and no less importantly, i stress the need to address and prevent rape during wartime. it is not only physical violence that is at issue, but also the devastating lifelong impact of rape on a woman's psychology, health and family relationships. the seriousness of rape as a war crime must be emphasised, inter alia, by subsequent prosecution and punishment of the perpetrators.
in writing. − i supported the proposals in this report, considering it important to call on member states to make their tax systems more growth-friendly. i find it regrettable that in the context of the economic crisis some member states, including my home country estonia, have left the heaviest burden of indirect tax increases to be borne by the less well-insured families. however, such policies are contrary to european guidelines, such as the vat directive, by hindering economic development and increasing inequalities in society. the key to european economic development is certainly the reduction of red tape, which is particularly characteristic of the larger member states, the avoidance of double taxation of companies and individuals, and the introduction of a single consolidated corporate income tax base.
on behalf of the s&d group. ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs sari essayah, for her truly masterful and determined work. and also, i want to thank all the other reporters. this report is a good example of how the community method can be used to achieve truly progressive results that advance the common idea of the 'supreme good'. the euro crossborder settlement system was hungry for a common set of rules and concepts. the chaos that has prevailed so far, with different approaches and tariffs in the member states, has been detrimental to consumers and has clouded the spirit of the common market. however, all this work had to take account of the arrangements in place in the various member states and to seek compromises. clearly, every change has a price, and it takes time to adjust to change. the socialist and democratic group was all about the objectives of a single european framework, but at the same time we stressed the need to protect local practices that reach consumers. that is why we supported a single date for sepa. i would like to mention a few other aspects which the social democrats proposed and on which agreement was reached. first, the issue of possible price increases or price increases. although prices in this sector are expected to fall with increasing competition, we advised the commission to be particularly vigilant in this respect at the initial stage of the implementation of the regulation. secondly, whereas sepa governance used to be the domain of banks alone, the regulation emphasises the importance of involving all parties in governance and supervision. the commission notes that the bank of greece has not provided any information on the amount of the capital injections in question. fourth, a smooth transition from the national bban to the international iban standard. fifth, the validity of the old mandates, which, frankly, saved us from any legal ambiguity, and, moreover, was entirely reasonable. and sixth, the transition period for large-scale national systems. in conclusion, i would like to say that sepa is a very good example of how progress can be achieved by joint efforts in a win-win way. it is estimated that sepa alone could save consumers, banks and businesses up to eur 123 billion over six years. this is certainly worth doing together and we would like to see more such initiatives in the future. thank you very much for your attention.
in writing. – according to eurostat 21.4% of young people in europe are unemployed, 28% of those are long-term unemployed. in the last ten years the number has been in the region between 15 and 20%. the commission estimates that 21% costs society today eur 2 billion per week or 1% of the eu’s economic output. these are mere figures and do not portray the real tragedy among young people who face serious difficulties finding any job. the informal council of 30 january has agreed to re-allocate funds from the structural and cohesion funds to fight high youth unemployment, especially focusing on the most affected countries such as spain with 46% and ireland and portugal facing rates around 29%. the member states together with the commission must rapidly work out a concrete re-allocation plan, to be presented to and discussed with all actors involved. it is crucial to create new flexible job schemes, additional quality apprenticeship and traineeship possibilities both for young people who enter the job market, but also for those who need the opportunity to re-enter. europe needs its young people more than ever and today’s crisis gives the opportunity for the eu to show flexibility in budgeting and finally seriously target this long-term problem.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. i supported today the adoption of a report on the linking of central, commercial or companies registers. the linking of business registers is a much-needed and long-awaited measure to further develop the economic fabric of the european union and to increase legal certainty for companies and citizens. in view of the economic situation in the union and in the member states in recent years, the need to ensure and enhance legal certainty for cross-border economic activities has increased significantly. it is therefore important that an undertaking in one member state be able to check and obtain information on the legal status of a business partner, this would increase the availability of information. although this directive is of a relatively technical nature and concerns the interconnection and exchange of information between national registers, it has a significant impact on the development of the european internal market and is therefore of far greater importance than might initially be expected. the amendments to the directive will speed up the exchange of information and increase its accessibility to citizens and businesses, thereby reducing the opportunities for malicious or criminal actors to exploit businesses in different member states and to carry out illegal transactions. thank you!
in writing. the honourable chairman, colleagues! this report on the distribution of food to the most deprived persons in the european union is of particular importance in view of the economic situation of recent years and the increase in the number of deprived persons. i am glad that after two years of blockage the council has decided to move forward and therefore i fully support the rapporteur's view that this second reading should be passed by parliament as soon as possible. on a positive note, the commission and the council have agreed to a 100% funding rate, while setting the total amount of grants at eur 500 million. it is worth noting that the council also drew attention to the need to improve the food aid distribution system and to ensure that aid always reaches those who need it. unfortunately, there have been cases in member states where food aid is free but only in large centres and available to all who wish to receive it. unfortunately, this means that aid in rural areas does not reach those who need it most. the council's position states that food aid must be distributed to persons who are counted as deprived persons according to the local or national definition. this is where the role of local social workers, who know best who needs help and how to provide it, must be strengthened. i would like to make one important point: i am in full support of the distribution of foodstuffs originating in the union, which is also supported by the council's positions. thank you!
in writing. − i supported this report, considering it essential that member states take immediate action to meet their commitments to raise employment levels, improve people's skills and reduce poverty. unemployment remains very high in the member states of europe, especially among young people, with some member states already reaching over 40%. a situation in which a large proportion of the working-age population is long-term unemployed and displaced is crippling europe's economy and vitality. it is therefore important to set up a 'guarantee scheme' in cooperation with the social partners to ensure that every young person has the right to work, to take up a traineeship or to receive training after four months of unemployment. instead of consistently exporting their production to asia, european companies should pay more attention to their home region, and the european union and its member states should also encourage this more.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. i supported today the completion of the second reading of the report on the distribution of food to the most deprived persons in the union. i think this report is extremely important, given the economic circumstances of recent years and the increased need for food aid. i agree with the rapporteur that this report needs to be adopted more urgently and without amendments in order to ensure the rapid, effective and sustainable continuation of food aid. i am glad that after two years of blockage the council has decided to move forward and has taken account of a number of points of view previously expressed in parliament. on a positive note, the commission and the council have agreed to a 100% funding rate, while setting the total amount of grants at eur 500 million. i would like to make one important point: i am in full support of the distribution of foodstuffs originating in the union, which is also supported by the council's positions. thank you!
in writing. - i abstained from the vote because i am not convinced that the bonds will fulfil the stated objective. i support the principle of solidarity, but on every issue and for every member state. we want to help our countries, which have been irresponsible in their financial affairs, by issuing bonds, but we have unfortunately neglected solidarity in the way we have decided to grant agricultural subsidies, both today and tomorrow.
in writing. − i supported this report, considering it important that for the first time the annual growth analysis includes guidelines for combating poverty and social exclusion. the impact of the economic crisis has been particularly severe for young people, whose unemployment rate is very high, ranging from 20% to 40% in the member states. the key to reducing the high rate of youth unemployment is to reduce the mismatch between education and skills acquired and labour market demands. to help create jobs and to find the necessary funds for investment, i voted for the introduction of proposition 29, the financial transaction tax. we are in a crisis that was started by banks taking unreasonable risks, so putting the burden of the entire economic crisis on the taxpayer is unfair and banks must also take responsibility to society.
mr president, the regime of bashar al-assad is the target of tough sanctions from the international community, and this must continue. i regret that russia and china have not yet joined us in these efforts. in addition to the economic sanctions, which have started to paralyse the criminal regime, we must also show our unconditional support to those who peacefully stand against it. the past year has shown us that the will of the people can overthrow any regime, no matter how strong. my colleagues here today in the plenary have proposed relevant and concrete measures that the eu should take, and i very much hope that we do not waste time in delivering a clear strategy towards syria.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the alde group is very pleased with the fact that the joint motion for a resolution on the 19th session of the un human rights council has given the delegation of the european parliament a mandate to address a wide range of human rights issues that have recently arisen very painfully. with regard to the key issues of burma, north korea, syria, libya and iran we would like to point out the role of the russian federation and the people’s republic of china in reaching a constructive resolution of several crises. we deplore the reluctance of the two non-democratic regimes to cooperate in the un security council, in particular by vetoing the adoption of the resolution on syria. the hypocrisy of mr lavrov when calling for the stabilisation of the country is incredible. it is no secret that the kremlin only wishes to maintain access to tartus naval base, which has been staffed with soviet or russian military personnel since 1971 when the soviet union and syria signed an agreement. the cold war is over and we must set aside the neo-colonialist discourse of spheres of influence. that also applies to beijing, which is increasingly suppressing the freedom of thought, conscience and religion in tibet. this has led to an increasing number of self-immolations of both temporal and spiritual people in tibet. the eu and its member states must consistently pursue a meaningful dialogue with china on human rights and raise those issues on every possible occasion. finally, i would like to stress the importance of combating discrimination on all grounds, also in the eu, including gender, race, nationality, age, sexual orientation and religion.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution on the recent political developments in hungary, for the reasons that i already outlined in the statement that was submitted after the debate. it was pivotal that the situation in hungary was discussed in the european parliament. when the core values of the european union are at stake in any member state, then it cannot be considered as an internal affair of the country. on the contrary, it then concerns all of us. the european parliament has adopted a strong resolution and i expect mr orbán to take it into account when making efforts to comply with the recommendations, objections and demands of the european commission, the council of europe and the venice commission.
thank you, mr. chairman. so today we adopted the first resolution on russia, the first one this year. and i supported that resolution and i share many of the views expressed in that resolution, i am a co-author of that resolution. we reiterate in the resolution that the december elections to the state duma in russia were neither free nor fair. and i would be happy to read paragraph six of the resolution, which says very clearly that russia must hold new and fair elections. in particular, paragraph 6 says that we call on the russian government to submit, in accordance with the osce recommendations, a package of legislative proposals aimed at developing a genuinely democratic political system. the proposals should also include reforms to simplify the registration of both parties and presidential candidates and to avoid restrictive application of registration rules, so that genuinely free and fair elections can take place as soon as possible. - thank you. - thank you.
in writing. − i voted against the original resolution submitted by the alde, s&d, verts/efa and gue/ngl groups. the current hysterical witch hunt against hungary is not acceptable. the european commission has taken steps to resolve misunderstandings and questionable issues regarding the new constitution and hungary has declared itself willing to fully cooperate on this matter. the eu is based on political agreements and treaties which lay down principles on how to behave in such situations. it is up to the european commission to look into possible breaches of eu law. the european parliament should not be made a tool of political rivalry and revenge after national elections have given a clear popular mandate to a certain political force. the resolution in its present form can only incite political extremism and cause internal political rifts within a member state, turning hungarian people against the eu. it will be in the interest of all eu citizens to demonstrate that the eu is adhering to its principles, including the avoidance of making politically motivated, prejudicial and premature conclusions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on syria. the eu and the world have to finally rise up to the level of the standards to which they have committed themselves and put an end to the continuing exercise of violence by the syrian regime against its own people. the continued ignoring by the syrian government of the appeals of the international community is bound to have a devastating effect on the human rights situation all over the world. the immediate goal is to stop immediately wide-scale human rights violations including mass arrests, extrajudicial killings, arbitrary detention, enforced disappearances, torture and ill treatment of detainees. the eu has to put more pressure on russia and china to join the joint un security council resolution without further delay. any proliferation of arms to syria from third countries has to be eliminated. it is a disgrace that russia proclaims its support for a negotiated settlement but at the same time keeps delivering weapons to syria. finally, i stress the call made in the resolution for the european council to recall its ambassadors from syria and freeze all diplomatic relations with syria until the conflict is resolved.
in writing. - i consider it very important that all people, including the blind, have access to books. although we have all the means, we are still in a situation today where very few books are being published in a format suitable for the blind. among other things, the publication of such books is restricted by the copyright laws of various countries. to change this situation, a legally binding text is needed on the copyright of books and other printed matter for the blind and visually impaired and to allow for certain exceptions to the marketing of books suitable for the visually impaired. i support the wipo convention on the copyright of books and other printed works for the blind and visually impaired, which is why i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
mr president, the application of the death penalty, in its essence, falls short of fundamental human rights. should uladzislau kavalyou and dzmitry kanavalau really be guilty of the crimes that they have been convicted for, then they should receive a proportional sentence, but they must not be executed. i call on president lukashenko to pardon both men and i call on belarus to establish a moratorium on all death sentences and executions and eventually to abolish the death penalty in that country. it is appalling that in the 21st century there is still a country in europe which applies medieval punishments. belarus too must reform from byzantine autocracy to modern european democracy. president lukashenko is running out of friends and he should take our well-founded demand very seriously.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the political situation in egypt over the past year has undergone a conceptual change. the transition from an authoritarian regime is moving in the right direction but is far from complete. recent violent uprisings and the catastrophic events in port said tell a sad story. together with serious breaches of human rights, these events raise concerns about the further democratisation process and the transition of the regime. i would like to stress that the european union should and will continue to support unconditionally reforms leading to democracy, the rule of law and social justice in egypt. we therefore expect that the egyptians will continue their efforts to decrease corruption and guarantee fundamental freedoms. in my opinion the next major step must be changing the current supreme council of the armed forces to a democratically-elected civilian government as soon as possible.
author. − mr president, one knows a true friend by unconditional honesty; i hope to be a friend of the land of the rising sun. however, i would call on tokyo not to end the de facto moratorium on the death penalty. the death penalty assumes that the convict is not able to reform himself and furthermore, once carried out, it cannot be appealed against if misapplied. even a remote chance of a mistake does not allow it to be applied in a contemporary democratic country that respects human rights. we must be consistent in our policies in the european union and apply the same standards to all countries, from belarus to japan and from china to the usa.
mr president, the message of today’s meeting could well be ‘now it is implementation time’. it is time for the member states to effectively implement the commitments made to the european council. the biggest problem still seems to be the aftermath of the council meetings. while following strict financial discipline, it is crucial that new investments should be made to build an efficient knowledge-based economy, to reduce administrative burdens for smes and to boost youth employment. the key issue is to make decisive use of the basic instrument on which the european community is based: the single market. today president barroso used the well-known politically correct term: deepening of the single market. i support joseph daul, who today called for the 20th anniversary of the single market to be marked by completing it on the basis of a precise timetable proposed by the commission. now is the time finally to overcome hesitation and caution about fully implementing the single market. it is time to end the unofficial protectionism which is in fact a hard reality. this attitude has been undermining the eu’s innate potential for growth and for political and economic credibility.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which puts the need to protect the heritage reserve at the heart of the debate. in order to allow for the rapid settlement of an international succession, the regulation introduces a european certificate. this certificate is intended to be used by heirs and legatees with direct rights in the succession to prove specific elements, such as the status of heir or the assignment of specified property. a european solution must be based on single benchmarks in terms of jurisdiction and applicable law. persons who have their habitual residence outside their state of origin and who have not opted for a specific law are, in the future, subject, in the event of death, to the succession law of the state of residence. this is new for all member states. the european certificate of succession should be limited to cross-border cases. it should be issued by the services dealing with successions courts, administrations, notaries or other authorities.
in writing. − i supported the adoption of this report, as i have supported all other legal frameworks that facilitate crossborder transactions, guarantee the free movement of europeans and make europe more unified. the new regulation is essential to reduce legal conflicts in succession matters and to avoid disputes between different parties when it comes to a will that affects the legal systems of several eu member states. however, the regulation now allows for a choice between the law of the home member state and the law of the state of permanent residence in crossborder succession cases and clarifies the pan-european criteria for deciding which member state's law applies where succession is governed by the laws of more than one member state. as a liberal, i am pleased that european citizens will have the right to choose the most convenient way of dealing with succession matters and that the new legislation will make people's lives in this area much easier.
in writing. − i agree with the views expressed in this report and find it a good illustration of the obstacles to gender equality in the european union. today, it is clear that the work done to achieve gender equality is bearing fruit, but slowly. in order to ensure the active participation and full participation of women in society, politics and the labour market, more bold and binding measures than those currently in place are needed. however, before such measures (e.g. electoral quotas, quotas for women on the boards of large listed companies, etc.) are implemented, there is a need for a better overview of the representation of women in different types of enterprises and of the measures already implemented, whether voluntary or mandatory. in addition to the collection and presentation of such data, i believe that we should require an analysis of the wages received for equal or equivalent work in all member states (in addition to the comparison of average wages), which would require the development of a guide to the assessment of equal or equivalent work.
in writing. − the measures listed in the sirpa pietikäinen report are essential to tackle persistent inequalities in the various political appointments and elections. i see the greatest role in solving this problem in the parties whose competence is to draw up electoral lists. the gender-balanced composition of electoral lists is crucial to ensure equal access for women to senior positions in society. the application of voluntary, contractual or compulsory quotas in the drawing up of electoral lists is not only the most effective but also the most painful way of promoting women to a level playing field: no man is deprived of the right to vote by introducing quotas, but women are simply put in a starting position that is more equal to men. in addition to quotas, awareness campaigns on gender inequality and its manifestations help to overcome entrenched and outdated stereotypes. the view is still widespread (both among men and women themselves) that gender inequality is a pseudo-problem. this social attitude is further exacerbated by misrepresentations in the media of issues such as the wage gap or the interest rate quota. we should therefore allocate resources to education and awareness-raising on gender inequality, for example through campaigns. through better communication and equal opportunities for women, we will achieve a fairer participation of women in political decision-making.
in writing. - the respected manager, colleagues! i support the principle of gender equality in political decision-making. i would like to see women equally represented in the drawing up of electoral lists and in the holding of high positions in the european union. if there is no other way to implement these principles, i also think it is right that in future each member state should nominate both a woman and a man for the post of commissioner of the european commission. women's political participation is one of the foundations of democracy and is essential for achieving sustainable development and peace, as also stated in the joint declaration of the 66th session of the united nations general assembly in new york. as sirpa pietikäinen's resolution 'women's participation in political decision-making, quality and equality' emphasises the above-mentioned principles, i voted in favour of it. thank you!
in writing. - the respected manager, colleagues! one of the main objectives of the bologna process is to create a european 'single higher education area', mainly through the harmonisation of academic degrees and quality across europe. the problem still exists today that european universities do not recognise each other's degrees, academic titles and lengths of study periods. the luigi berlinguer report 'the contribution of the european institutions to the strengthening and development of the bologna process' is one step towards addressing these problems and that is why i voted in favour of this report. thank you!
for the verts/ale group as today is mother language day in estonia, i would like to honor it with a speech in estonian. first of all, we have to note that iceland can become a world leader in the field of information and freedom of expression, mainly thanks to immi - the icelandic modern media initiative - and that is why the amendment proposed by the greens to introduce immi in our report, and i ask everyone who can, to vote in favour of it. secondly, we have differences of opinion on the mackerel quota issue and the call for a report to the parties is very precise and relevant, but the phrase which talks about historical fishing rights should be voted out because if we look at the history of the planet, we immediately see that fish lived here before man and historical fishing rights are from the 'former danish republic of iceland'. third, iceland has at least one big lesson for us. we're just talking about the need to get more women in leadership, but five of the nine members of the icelandic government are women, which makes iceland a unique example for all 27 countries of the european union. thank you!
in writing mr president! thank you to the rapporteur for the balanced text of the resolution! as a northern european, i am of course very happy to support iceland's accession to the european union. it is a nordic country with long-standing cultural and historical ties to europe. for me, as an estonian, the small country of iceland is another good example of a country that acts with courage and foresight, standing up for democratic principles. iceland is also the first country in the world to recognize the re-independence of the republic of estonia, for which we are grateful to it. of course, the icelandic people must reach a consensus on joining. i wish them luck and strength! thank you for your attention.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the enlargement report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i welcome the decision of the court of justice of 5 december 2011 which could give a new impetus to solving the name dispute. in the case of each accession the eu should be clear on its open-minded approach and use of pro-european language. it is high time now to look to the future and leave the past aside. the dispute between neighbours on the name issue has alarmingly delayed the start of the accession negotiations and harmed the image and credibility of the eu in the eyes of that country’s citizens. i am aware that the present name of fyrom is insulting to the citizens of that country. in the absence of another agreed term, the transition formula ‘future eu member state of macedonia’ could be used. i welcome the withdrawal of the controversial law allowing the persecution of journalists on political grounds. this is an indication that fyrom is showing good will in working together with the eu. fyrom is progressing significantly with its reforms and i am sure that this course will continue. i call on the council to take the positive recommendation from the ec seriously and set aside bilateral disputes that hinder progress.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, recognising the progress of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in its integration with the european union. progress has been made in various areas, such as judicial reform, improved training of judges and prosecutors, stable economic performance, improved awareness and fight against corruption, and the integration of various minorities in society, etc. the citizens' livelihoods are a concern, as many people live in poverty and there is a high level of inequality in society, despite the fact that the problem is being addressed and a strategy against poverty and social exclusion has been adopted. i also see a problem with the weak enforcement of the law, given the use of violence by the police on election night. it is true that police cooperation with the european union has been effective in the fight against terrorism. i find it regrettable that the name issue of macedonia has been left unresolved for so long, and that the country has to bear the name of its former occupying power. as an estonian, it would be very humiliating for me if my country had to bear the name of a neighbouring republic of the former soviet union, for example, in the interests of historical truth. in the kingdom of belgium, the province of luxembourg also borders the grand duchy of luxembourg, but the two countries nevertheless get along very well.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2011 progress report on iceland. iceland had already met almost all the criteria before the start of the accession procedure and has been a close partner of the eu in the framework of efta. it is a founding member of nato and demonstrated its principles and solidarity by being the first to reinstate diplomatic relations with the baltic states in 1991. this proves that iceland is a reliable and strong partner for the eu in the international arena. it is among the leading world users of renewable energies and investing in innovation and research in alternative energy sources. the eu can only benefit from its membership. iceland must also want accession. the country has to respect the ban on whale hunting and trading in whale products set out in the acquis and has to compromise on the fisheries chapter, despite fisheries having a special position in iceland’s identity and economy. the news of iceland’s plans to adopt the canadian dollar and drop the króna is a source of concern and raises questions about its motivation to join the eu.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, today we are not speaking about magnitsky or khodorkovsky and other cases but that does not mean that we have forgotten those cases; we will come back to those issues later. we are speaking today about the elections or so-called elections; the presidential elections in russia and i must say that yesterday the alde group in this parliament organised a very good, extensive hearing on the results of the presidential elections, we have ms garzinova and mr kasparov two opposition leaders visiting strasbourg today; they are also on the balcony here now; they were actually telling their first-hand experience of these elections. our group chair, mr verhofstadt, also visited moscow on 5 march right after the elections and he was on the streets. he saw that the military presence was so enormous and the people had not seen such a military presence since 1993. speaking about these elections and the fraud which has been reported by the osce, odihr and also the council of europe, it is extraordinary: they are even increasing the results from the soviet times when normally the polling stations did not have more than 99.9% attendance. now they were 100% in chechnya. it is clear that the results, the conclusions, are evidence that these elections were not free; these elections were not fair. this is now the question for the international question: what does it really mean? what kind of consequences should we draw from this? is this president legitimate? is the duma which was elected in the same manner in december legitimate? how can they be partners with the european union and the rest of the international community? that is the question.
mr president, a substantial number of russian citizens have clearly said that is enough. what the eu has now to take as a basis for its further relationship with russia is the fact that both the new parliament and president have lost political credibility. therefore, the least this parliament can do is to declare clearly and firmly that these elections have been neither fair nor free. but the question is: what next? can we rely upon the promises expressed by mr medvedev or mr putin for electoral reform? i think we have to seek the opportunity to try to bring together the russian opposition with the present leadership to work out a national compromise – but it should be a constructive compromise – to set a date for new elections after the new reform.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i understand the social democrats' wish to say something about the russian elections, but the text they have put forward is not helpful either for the development of russian democracy or, in fact, for social democracy itself. i don't understand the liberal attachment to a soft-spoken text. and i do not think that the russian democrats garry kasparov and m. kasyanov here in strasbourg would be proud or happy if the european parliament adopted the toothless text. i think the decision of the conference of presidents was to allow this resolution to be born right now! but we can perhaps correct this error in the future by relying on more independent analysis and by having an honest and dignified dialogue with russia. not by trying to undermine the top brass for business deals. a bad example is france's decision to sell mistral-type cruise missiles to russia, which then proudly cruise near eu member states' coastal waters. the sale of the mistral is a fatal mistake!
mr president, of the former ussr countries, only the three baltic states are consolidated democracies. some others are struggling towards this and some others, like belarus and kazakhstan, are outright autocracies. president nazarbayev now has to choose whether to remain a cruel dictator and to shed the blood of peaceful protestors, or to take his country towards openness and democratic values. the massacre of oil workers in zhanaozen on 16 december 2011, along with other cases, cannot go unnoticed by the eu. i expect the high representative to refer these cases to the council. while recalling ambassadors and setting sanctions on belarus, the eu should not turn a blind eye to nazarbayev’s regime. we need to be consistent in our policies and we must make it clear to our kazakhstan partners that the talks on the new enhanced eu-kazakhstan agreement require serious efforts to be made in that country to improve the human rights situation there.
member of the commission. − mr president, i believe that today’s debate again demonstrated the parliament’s strong engagement in supporting human rights and fighting against terrorism. we look forward to the parliament’s continued support for the european union’s growing engagement with nigeria. we will increase our contacts and cooperation with nigeria, which is at a crucial juncture in its history. it faces serious problems but there are also a lot of opportunities. what can the commission do in response to the troubles faced by nigeria? today we are supporting nigeria with eur 200 million in the niger delta programme which is our support for fragile peace in the delta. we are also considering how to support the northern nigeria programme, where there are many development challenges. just to mention one, education: northern nigeria has some of the worst education indicators in the world with only 74% attending school and only about 5% finishing a full primary cycle. in effect, boko haram is deliberately depriving nigerian children of the opportunity to better themselves, help their families and communities and find a way out of poverty. this means that engagement with nigeria should be crucial. the european union regularly raises issues about religious freedoms with nigeria in the context of the human rights dialogue. the rights of christians should not be seen independently from the rights of muslims in the country. i believe that this dialogue on human rights will be strengthened in the future. the high representative has already engaged a great deal and she has a couple of new proposals that were discussed during the informal meetings with foreign affairs ministers held last week in denmark. how can the european union help nigeria against boko haram? following the ministerial meeting between the european union and nigeria we have started to work on the package of support for nigeria’s counter-terrorist methods. this will be additional to, and complementary with, the eu member states’ action. it will focus on the root causes of radicalisation, especially poverty, marginalisation in society and lack of jobs. it will also have a dimension of justice and the rule of law. nigeria is defining its own counter-terrorism strategy, which the eu will support fully, in accordance with human rights issues. on the killing of two european hostages, i would just repeat the high representative’s statement of 9 march: ‘i want to express my condolences to both families of the hostages in nigeria for the tragic loss. we condemn in the strongest possible terms criminal actions like the taking of hostages. perpetrators must be brought to justice and held accountable for their crimes.’ the last point i would like to emphasise concerns oil revenues. i believe that the commission has now made a proposal for more transparency on the reporting of profits from natural wealth by the companies. i very much hope that this house will support these measures because we clearly understand that fighting against poverty also requires that all companies engage fully and transparently to report on the profits in a particular country.
in writing. – the clashes in nigeria have been in the news during the recent months, yet we practically lack feedback from hr/vp on these alarming developments. now the ep is coming forward with its resolution on the social unrest and religiously motivated persecution of christians in nigeria. ep has repeatedly called on the eeas to mainstream the aspect of freedom of religion and belief in its human rights dialogue with third countries and to train its staff on this. religiously motivated intolerance in the world is on the rise and eu has to step up its efforts to tackle this issue sooner rather than later. i call on the eu together with un to contribute to a peaceful settlement between the religious communities in nigeria. it is our common interests to stop the spreading of violence towards christian communities. nigeria is among resource richest countries in africa with significant economic growth, but also among the most corrupt. the eu must in its relations with nigeria seriously push for social and economic reforms that would channel the revenues from oil industry for education and economic and social development, instead of re-distributing them among the elites. this will be the best way to avoid further clashes between religious communities.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i am very glad to be here today to discuss the situation in belarus on behalf of high representative/vice-president ashton. the european union is increasingly concerned about the continued lack of respect for human rights and the rule of law in belarus. over the last months, the situation has gone from bad to worse, with further repressive measures and policies towards civil society and political opposition. there are many concerns. the first of them is the immediate and unconditional release of all 12 political prisoners and their rehabilitation. the presence of political prisoners in the heart of europe is a shame. we are also deeply concerned about reports of torture and inhumane prison conditions of political prisoners. the belarusian authorities are under an absolute obligation to ensure the respect of the prohibition of torture and inhuman treatment and have a responsibility to investigate reports thereof. all harassment of members of the opposition, and of civil society must stop, and their freedom of movement cannot be impeded. the increasingly draconian legislation that will further restrict the belarusian citizens’ freedoms of assembly and association, as well as provision of support to civil society, must be rolled back. belarus remains the only country in europe to still apply capital punishment. as already highlighted in this house, the european union remains opposed to capital punishment under all circumstances. along the lines of the parliament’s resolution of 16 february, the european union calls on the authorities of belarus not to carry out the executions of dzmitry kanavalaw and uladzislaw kavalyow, and to introduce a moratorium on capital punishment in view of its eventual abolition. the eu’s policies are principled. we remain committed to a visible and united defence of our values – human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. it is clear that we cannot stay idle in face of developments in a country that is neighbouring three of our member states. the eu restrictive measures are an important instrument to keep up political pressure, to strengthen our political message to belarus. the european union has repeatedly stressed that they remain open and under constant review. in january, the council expanded the criteria to target those responsible for serious violations of human rights, the repression of civil society and opposition and persons or entities benefiting from or supporting the regime. as highlighted by high representative/vice-president ashton after the february foreign affairs council, work is currently ongoing in view of a decision to be taken by the 23 march foreign affairs council, on the basis of a list of business interests supporting the regime or drawing benefits from it. we have made clear that the eu’s policies are not directed against belarus as such, nor against its people. the eu maintains its policy of critical engagement, including through dialogue and the eastern partnership. we remain ready to develop our bilateral relations, depending on progress made by the authorities towards the respect for the principles of democracy, human rights and rule of law. as highlighted by high representative/vice-president ashton in her joint statement with secretary of state clinton in december 2011, the european union remains willing to assist belarus to meet its obligations in this regard. the engagement with belarusian civil society, the political opposition and the public at large is a crucial element of the eu’s policies. we remain ready to launch negotiations for visa facilitation and readmission agreements which would enhance people-to-people contacts to the benefit of the belarusian population. it is regrettable that the belarusian authorities have so far failed our invitation to start negotiations. we will also step up our dialogue with civil society and the political opposition through a ‘european dialogue on modernisation’ with the belarusian society on necessary reforms for the modernisation of belarus and on the related potential development of relations with the european union, as well as possible eu support in this regard. the european union and its member states want to reach out to belarus and to share their successful experience of transition to democracy and market economy. once conditions are ripe, the eu will also be ready to provide the right conditions for eu companies and financial institutions to support the country’s transformation and to invest in belarus’s future privatisation process. the european dialogue will be launched in brussels on 29 march in brussels: what we want to achieve is an open exercise taking in all political forces, and civil society, with substantial involvement by eu member states. in difficult times, it is important to maintain channels also of communication and information. this is why the eu upgraded its delegation in minsk last summer. further to the request by the belarusian authorities on 28 february that the eu head of delegation and the ambassador of poland should leave the country for consultations, the european union agreed in a determined act of solidarity to withdraw all eu ambassadors for consultations. our ambassadors fulfil a crucial function on the ground in belarus as channels of communication and information and we remain committed to a unified and coordinated approach also to the issue of their return. unfortunately nothing has happened until now to encourage us to change our policies towards the authorities in minsk. not the release of political prisoners and their rehabilitation. the persecution of opposition figures since the elections of december 2010 continues. breaches of human rights continue. and, yes, further sanctions will probably not improve our bilateral relations with minsk. this is regrettable but it is unavoidable if we are to remain true to our values. i can only thank the honourable members for their determination to face this difficult issue head-on. we owe it to the people of belarus, to show that we have solidarity with them in these difficult times and that there will be a european future when conditions allow. the support of members of this house in the unfolding situation in belarus since the presidential elections of 19 december 2010 has been crucial to keep the issue high on the eu’s agenda. it has also been crucial to maintain the political pressure on belarus to change its current repressive policies and to take the necessary steps, which would allow it to find its proper place in european cooperation. we look forward to examining the resolution that this house will adopt tomorrow.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the alde group applauds the sound decision of the member states to summon their ambassadors from minsk to their respective ministries for consultations following the diplomatic conflict between the eu and belarus. the behaviour of president lukashenko, both domestically and internationally, is scandalous, and the eu should not flatter him and his cronies by sending our representatives to minsk at ambassadorial level. lukashenko has consistently ignored the international commitments of belarus as a member state of the osce. i would not like to see the distinguished ambassadors of the eu presenting their credentials to a criminal dictator. there can be no progress in relations between the european union and belarus until the regime implements democratic reforms. meanwhile we should concentrate our efforts on engaging belarusian civil society and the democratic opposition. i would also encourage the international ice hockey federation to move the 2014 world championship from belarus to another location. lukashenko does not deserve the honour of hosting the championship. a dictator does not understand the principles of democracy; therefore he does not understand the principle of sport: that of free competition.
i too voted in favour of this resolution, and particularly because so many important amendments were incorporated in the resolution adopted today. i myself, together with guy verhofstadt, the leader of my group, tabled a very important amendment, in which we stressed that the presidential elections were not free and fair. it is therefore undoubtedly necessary for the european union as a whole to draw conclusions on the legitimacy of these elections and also on the legitimacy of the president-elect. this raises serious questions in relations between the european union and russia. and, as in the debate held here a few days ago at the hearing, in which mr kasyanov and mr kasparov were also present, many of our colleagues raised the question of whether the european union could continue to have relations with russia in the way that we say in english 'business as usual'. that's also in question.
i also voted today in favour of the kazakhstan resolution. yesterday there was a very thorough and serious debate in this chamber about what we have seen happening in kazakhstan. the events of last december are of course events of this magnitude which cannot be condoned in any way, and all those who are behind these events, who are responsible for the deaths of people, must also be brought to justice, and if kazakhstan has taken steps to do so, that is indeed commendable. on the other hand, kazakhstan is undoubtedly a very important country, large and powerful in its resources, and it is certainly in the interest of the european union to cooperate with kazakhstan, but this cooperation is nevertheless conditional on kazakhstan moving towards democracy and democratic values. president nazarbayev has a great opportunity to lead his country and people to a better future, to bring them to democratic principles.
in writing. − in its resolution on kazakhstan, the european parliament stresses the need to strengthen political and economic cooperation, including in the fields of democracy, human rights, the environment, energy, transport and trade, as well as in the fight against terrorism, organised crime and drug trafficking. the human rights situation in kazakhstan has been deteriorating for some time and has intensified particularly recently. i am referring to the tragic events in the region of žangaozen, as well as the arrests and imprisonments of opposition leaders and journalists. it is therefore important that the european union continues to monitor developments in these areas very closely and that the next steps in the negotiation of the partnership and cooperation agreement with kazakhstan depend on the progress of political reforms. as the european parliament's resolution emphasises these principles, i also supported the resolution in the final vote.
in writing. – refugees as well as irregular migrants are among the most vulnerable people all over the world; therefore it is particularly cruel to take advantage of their fragile situation. although the egyptian authorities are preoccupied by nation-building, the situation in the sinai desert must be addressed promptly and effectively. the people in sinai need to have their human rights safeguarded; the egyptian authorities must apply the un convention relating to the status of refugees, the convention governing the specific aspects of refugee problems in africa, and the international convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their family, and respect their international commitments. i would call the egyptian authorities to protect solomon w. as a victim of human trafficking and investigate thoroughly all the cases of murders, tortures and rapes that have taken place in the sinai desert.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, bahrain has already gone through a significant change. although through the blood of many innocent citizens, the country has now turned to reform itself. the reforms cannot succeed, however, when people responsible for the torturing and killing of bahraini civilians are not brought to justice. i encourage the bahraini government to drop the charges against peaceful protesters and medical personnel who helped the injured, release the detained and start independent investigations into the grave acts of violence against peaceful pro-democracy protesters. the bahraini government has made many mistakes and has lost international credibility and respect. they should not forget the lesson and i hope that the way forward to democracy will be paved with sophisticated reforms.
in writing. – i welcome the ongoing work on drafting the new constitution, which has to represent and protect the rights of all groups and minorities in turkish society. broadening the scope of the restoration of property rights to all non-muslim communities since august 2011 is an encouraging development. it is equally important for the religious communities to obtain the status of a legal personality. i refer in particular to aramean (syriac) christians who live mostly in the south-east of turkey and represent one of the oldest cultures in that region. owing to their very limited numbers, they are one of the most vulnerable ethnic and religious groups. they are exposed to assimilation by surrounding cultures; therefore, it is vital for arameans to be able to freely teach their language in schools and to be granted officially the legal status of a minority group as suggested in council of europe resolution 1704/2010. so far, the arameans have been refused such a status, which could guarantee their cultural survival in the future. the legal ownership of the 4th century st gabriel’s monastery and its surrounding lands, which is a major cultural treasure for all turkey, should be secured and the monastery and lands protected in their entirety.
mr. chairman of the board! tomorrow we will adopt another resolution on belarus. but it seems to me that it doesn't matter anymore whether we decide something here or not, because for lukashenko it's all water on the goose. if we look at today's events, tonight three belarusian opposition leaders were arrested again, on their way from minsk via moscow to brussels. these people are alexander otroshchenkov, sergei kaljakin and alexander lebedko. they were arrested about 200 kilometers from minsk to moscow. they were last seen at the militia station in orsha. and as of now, no one knows anything about them. their cell phones are off and people are just disappearing. there's an interesting and beautiful saying in estonian that only the grave can cure a drunkard. and to paraphrase that, i would like to ask, what makes a totalitarian leader better?
in writing. − i supported the adoption of this important report, which aims to increase the transparency and regulatory oversight of otc derivatives in an internationally consistent manner. in order to ensure the stability of the financial sector, companies must also be held accountable for the risks they take and their supervision must be strengthened. i therefore consider it important to develop the work of the european securities and markets authority (esma) and to ensure that it is adequately resourced. as regards commissioner barnier's view that article 67 (3) of the report is contrary to the legislation in force (e.g. contrary to article 290 tfeu), i do not agree with this, as esma is an independent institution with experts, not the member states.
in writing. − i supported this resolution, considering it essential that kosovo's integration with europe be ensured in order to ensure security and stability in the region. as a member of the first government of the newly independent republic of estonia, i understand the complexities of building a young state and commend the kosovo authorities for their achievements so far in implementing various reforms and integrating society. of course, much is still lacking and kosovo has a long way to go before it becomes a european country with a developed democracy. as a member of the parliament's committee on women's rights and gender equality, i am very concerned about the high economic inequality between women and men in kosovo, the limited access of women to property, the unequal access of girls to education and the inadequate protection against domestic violence. i hope that the kosovo authorities will also pay sufficient attention to addressing these problems and will move steadily towards promoting european values.
in writing. − i considered it necessary to support the report on the progress report on turkey, as it gives a good account of the developments and shortcomings of the accession negotiations and reforms between the european union and turkey, which have now been ongoing for seven years. turkey is undoubtedly a country of great strategic importance to the european union its position as a european energy corridor, its rapid economic growth and its role as an influential trading partner are forcing and motivating europe to make accession negotiations a priority. however, as things stand in turkey today, there are aspects of the domestic situation that cannot be ignored, such as unjustifiably long pretrial detentions, restrictions on freedom of the press and of expression, child poverty, violence against women, etc. the report also highlights the persistent problems in turkish-cypriot relations and the need to open negotiations on the reunification of cyprus and the withdrawal of turkish troops from the area, which i consider to be an important prerequisite for improving cooperation and relations between the european union and turkey.
in writing. – today's debate is important because the european parliament can send a practically unanimous message to the eu foreign ministers’ meeting next june which will adopt a declaration on a new eu human rights strategy. what we need today is much more coherence in conducting the cfsp. that means moving human rights issues to the centre of our foreign relations. the role of the eu member states in implementing the eu human rights policies should be clearly and bindingly articulated because the new strategy will bite only if all the 27 governments back it by their practical and coordinated policies. i welcome the news that human rights focal points have been established in 116 eu foreign delegations by now. however, this has to be guaranteed by obligatory human rights training for all levels of the eeas staff, including heads of delegations. also performance reviews on human rights should become an integral part of annual evaluations of all eu diplomats. finally i am satisfied that the aspect of freedom of religion has been included in the training provided to the relevant eu staff. this should be even more strongly reinforced and become one of the core issues in the human rights dialogues with third states.
in writing. – although i support the adoption of the european parliament annual report on human rights in the world in 2010, i regret that it has been delayed to such a late date. i hope that in the future we will be able to be timelier in addressing the human rights situation in the world. nevertheless, the report outlines a great number of issues that ought to be discussed in the council. for example, the case of sergey magnitsky has not been properly brought up in the council as it should have been after the adoption of the previous annual report. instead the russian authorities continue to persecute sergey magnitsky’s family and avoid bringing those responsible for his death to justice. i would call the high representative to consider further action with regard to the case of sergey magnitsky, in particular setting targeted sanctions against the russian officials who are to blame in the demise of this brave man who uncovered rampant corruption within the administration of the russian federation. the annual report is far too important to allow it to become another impotent document; therefore it must be backed up by concrete action.
mr president, i would like to thank the high representative for her very clear and convincing statement on the situation in mali, because the internal conflict there shows clearly how fragile the political, as well as the economic, situation in the western part of africa really is. only twenty years ago, mali was finally established as a democratic multi-party state with a new constitution. since last month, the constitution has been suspended, and only eleven days ago there followed the self-proclaimed secession of the northern part of mali, which has very worrisome links with terrorists and what we might call the aftermath of gaddafi. we first need to address the humanitarian situation there, because it is currently estimated that one tenth of the fifteen-million-strong mali population is in need of emergency food assistance. secondly, we need to support this transitional agreement, which fortunately has been achieved thanks to the efforts of west african states. that is progress, because if the position is established that no military coups will be accepted, there is still hope that democracy can be re-established. however, the main thing is to get direct humanitarian aid to these areas to prevent this situation developing into a humanitarian disaster.
i am glad that in the discussion between these two countries today, there is a lot of talk about the nagorno-karabakh conflict. the only problem is that the key to the problem and the core of the problem is lost. the key to resolving this conflict is in moscow and the kremlin. if we want to finally get the 20 years of occupation to end, then we must also very clearly and unambiguously say these words: "this key is in moscow". secondly, i would like to say that the amendments to these reports which were voted on make it very clear that armenia cannot conclude an association agreement until it has withdrawn its troops from the territory of azerbaijan, in other words until it has ended its occupation of the territories of azerbaijan. i think that's a very good and fair solution. today, the european union has a historic chance to end this conflict.
mr president, the kremlin authorities are negotiating the acquisition of a eur 20 million piece of land in the middle of paris. it is meant for the construction of a russian orthodox church under the leadership of the moscow patriarch cyril, who is not content with the existing historic alexander nevsky cathedral in paris that welcomes believers. the russian state has endorsed the programme of construction of 200 churches in 10 years, discussing plans for the construction of 500 in future within this state-church fusion project. i think the separation of the church and state is a core element of any democracy. it is our duty to protect our citizens from confessions to the kremlin’s agents under the charming orthodox golden cupolas. we have to decide whether we allow these ambivalent putin regime establishments to be created in the eu or not.
on behalf of the alde group. the right to live and work anywhere in the european union is a fundamental right of every european union citizen. given that the free movement of labour is one of the key measures for the european union to achieve a functioning labour market, it is essential to have precise and unequivocally interpretable rules for the coordination of social security - rules that allow our people to move freely without having to worry about employment, pensions, health insurance and other elements of social security. the provisions of the regulation in force today were discussed 10 years ago. in the meantime, our job market has undergone some serious changes. new forms of mobility for workers have been added. there have also been changes in the legislation of the member states. the intention to update the regulation can therefore only be welcomed. as a parliament, it is our duty to ensure legal certainty for stakeholders. without social security coordination, the right to free movement under article 48 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union is not guaranteed. the new rules introduced in the regulation, firstly the rules on social security rights for self-employed persons, or secondly the addition of the definition of home base for persons working in an airline, do not oblige member states to change existing systems. they guarantee equal access to the social security system of a member state to citizens, provided that they are nationals of that state or are insured in that state. the amendments to the regulation, including those simplifying the wording of the legislation, are in the interests of the citizens of our 27 member states and not only, they also apply to iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland. by coordinating national systems, replacing several bilateral systems and speeding up the exchange of information, social security benefits will certainly be paid out more correctly and more quickly. the alde group supports the adoption of the amendments to the regulation at first reading. as a substitute reporter, i want to thank milan cabrnochi and the other substitute reporters for their very good, prompt and understanding cooperation.
in writing. − european cohesion policy must be consistent with the europe 2020 strategy and i therefore supported this report, which is based on it. to make europe's peripheral regions more competitive and to turn its constraints into growth potential and opportunities, europe needs to contribute more to the development of these regions. i am extremely concerned by the proposals to reduce the financial allocation foreseen for the outermost regions and sparsely populated areas in the 2014-2020 budgetary period, which are contrary to the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. in order to allow the use of existing grants in the outermost regions, the co-financing rates for the outermost regions should be set at 85% of all the support instruments for them and the budgetary execution deadlines for the support instruments should also be extended. otherwise, again, some 'smart official' will report that the outermost countries themselves are not interested in the grants and the money will be left over in the budget. if criteria and bureaucracy are too much, then they must be revised, rather than lightly abandoning the development of europe's periphery, that is, a united europe.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. the outermost regions of the european union are a group of regions which have a special status under the treaty, which allows, due to the specific characteristics and conditions of these regions, to derogate from the provisions of the treaty and to adapt those provisions to the outermost regions. as these regions have permanent constraints and constraints which distinguish them from the rest of europe, eu legislation and programmes cannot be applied uniformly throughout the eu territory, but must be implemented in a territorial approach. i support the rapporteur's view that european policies must be adapted when implemented in the eu's outermost regions, since these regions can better achieve the objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion only through specifically adapted eu policies and contribute to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. it is certainly worth noting that the specific measures of the posei programmes in agriculture and fisheries policy have been successful, which allows the possibility of launching other programmes of this type in other possible sectors, such as energy and renewable energy, transport and information and communication technologies. unfortunately, i cannot agree with the rapporteur's view that support for the outermost regions must continue, regardless of their level of development, which is usually expressed in terms of gdp per capita. i think that if some regions are doing well enough to manage on their own, then they will not need to receive such a large amount of eu funding. in conclusion, i supported the adoption of this report. thank you!
in writing. − madam president, since i work closely on human rights, democracy, rule of law, civil liberties and gender equality, i endorse richard howitt’s report. those values are the cornerstones of the european union and it is important that we imprint them on every policy field, from energy and development to environment and trade. the activities of the eu must be consistent and coherent, keeping in mind the interests of the citizens of the union as well as its international credibility. as human rights are such an integral part of what the eu stands for, i would insist that it reflects on our relations with third countries, especially with strategic partners. unfortunately not all of them share the same values, which in my opinion casts a doubt as to whether the use of the term of ‘strategic partnership’ is in those cases justified.
in writing. − mr president, i voted in favour of anneli jäätteenmäki’s report as i find it to be balanced and sound. in particular, i support the reference to azerbaijan’s territorial integrity, which has been stated very clearly in the report. the frozen conflict of nagorno-karabakh has been casting a gloomy shadow over the south-caucasus region and intimidated the relationship between armenia and azerbaijan for far too long. armenia must respect international law, the territorial integrity of azerbaijan and therefore withdraw its forces from occupied territories surrounding nagorno-karabakh and return them to azerbaijani control.
in writing. - i supported the report drawn up by my liberal colleague and the principles it refers to. given azerbaijan's important role in ensuring the energy security of the european union and its geographical location, it is a strategic partner of major importance. nevertheless, europe should not forget its core values in its cooperation with azerbaijan and continue to demand respect for human rights and the promotion of democracy, an end to the persecution of the opposition and the release of political prisoners. despite several shortcomings in promoting a democratic society, azerbaijan has made progress, for example by increasing the transparency of public administration by implementing e-government principles. the peaceful settlement of the nagorno-karabakh conflict is also important, and i am concerned about azerbaijan's bellicose rhetoric and high levels of defence spending. i consider the role of the european union, the russian federation and the republic of turkey to be important in the successful resolution of the conflict.
in writing. − mr president, i voted in favour of tomasz piotr poręba’s report as it outlines the importance of resolving the frozen conflict of nagorno-karabakh, just as anneli jääteenmäki’s report. it is pivotal that the conflict is resolved before the eeas goes on with the eu-armenia association agreement. armenia must respect the territorial integrity of azerbaijan and cease the settlement-building programme in the occupied territories of nagorno-karabakh. artificial increasing of the armenian population in the occupied territories is an alarming signal and armenia should in any case avoid adding fuel to the fire.
in writing. - i supported this report, which made a good point about the progress of the negotiations on the association agreement with armenia and also about the concerns. i remain deeply concerned about the high level of corruption in armenia and the explosive situation in nagorno-karabakh. it is sad to see how the long-dead dictator of the soviet union, joseph stalin, still manages to provoke various conflicts with his unjust division of the republics. hence my call not to yield to the will of the red army and to resolve the nagorno-karabakh conflict peacefully. in this context, i consider the role of the european union, the republic of turkey and the russian federation as peacemaking mediators to be important. as for the criticism of armenia for its friendly relations with the extremist regime in iran, it is certainly reprehensible, but it is also understandable, partly for pragmatic reasons, because armenia is surrounded by rogue nations who have imposed a widespread blockade on the latter. unfortunately, the narrow georgian trade corridor is not enough for armenia to be able to stand on its own and break out of its isolation. i hope that the various parties can move on without excessive emotion and focus on the future, not the past. a conflict-free situation is beneficial for all countries in the region.
in writing. − i find it unfortunate that the european parliament gave its consent to the eu-usa pnr. in doing so, we have legitimised the illegal collection of passenger data by the us authorities, which is one of the reasons why i voted against the report. furthermore, the current agreement does not provide the necessary guarantees on the protection of the data of the citizens of the eu and therefore violates the eu regulation on data protection. it will also put additional financial pressure on the carriers, as it will require investments in some additional technology. i find that the european parliament did not live up to the expectations of the citizens of the union by agreeing to the pnr.
in writing. − first of all, i would point out that the eu-us pnr agreement does not meet the guarantees that the european parliament has called for in its previous resolutions. the contract to be concluded provides the basis for disproportionate and unjustified data collection and retention. nor is there any guarantee that the data will be used solely for the purpose of reducing and preventing terrorism and international crime. unfortunately, the decision adopted today violates the foundations of democracy, specifically the fundamental rights of the people. this agreement does not guarantee the protection of personal data or the right of individuals to privacy and legal protection. the commission has not succeeded in improving the 2007 agreement in the slightest. the profile of passengers who are not at all suspicious is still being compiled, they are classified into opaque risk categories and their data are kept for 15 years. after that, the data is fully anonymised instead of being deleted. this raises serious concerns as to whether the agreement is compatible with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the case law of the european court of human rights and the german constitutional court. that is why i voted against this report. thank you!
in writing. − i supported this directive, considering it important to harmonise the tax base and make it fairer and more efficient. a more common tax policy would reduce community red tape and increase tax transparency. the large disparities in corporate taxation are a major constraint on investment in the european union, creating unfair competition and a distribution of revenues between member states. even in member states with large tax benefits, such as estonia, where companies are not required to pay income tax on investments, the desired competitive advantage has not been achieved, but rather a situation has been created where large companies withdraw profits tax-free and channel them internally to other countries. however, the various tax incentives are vital for smes and exemptions are fully justified. however, the fear of some member states that the directive would also lead to the harmonisation of corporate tax rates in the future is unfounded. i support the proposal to calculate and subdivide the tax base (turnover, labour and assets), which is however extremely important for the reasons mentioned above.
in writing. - i supported this report because amendment no 53 was supported, which means that diesel fuel used in engines based on environmentally friendly technology will retain tax benefits and no harmonisation of prices is required. in my view, it would have been unfair to punish those car manufacturers who have contributed to the development of fuel-efficient diesel engines with a higher tax and thus to infringe their legitimate expectations. in conclusion, however, the proposals in this report represent an important step towards meeting the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. − i agree with the problems and challenges identified in the report 'modernising european higher education systems' in the european higher education landscape. the higher aim of higher education institutions is to prepare people to compete in the labour market. to succeed in this endeavor, three things are needed. first, the real needs and expectations of the labour market for graduates must be regularly mapped so that the european higher education system does not 'produce' people whose education and skills are not suitable for existing jobs. similar to the mapping of labour market expectations, higher education institutions should also monitor the further development and career of their graduates. existing curricula can be improved to meet the needs of the labour market and the career paths of current graduates. secondly, higher education institutions today must be prepared to accept a very different group of people than a few decades ago. the subjects and courses taught today must be suitable for people of very different backgrounds in terms of age, gender, nationality, mother tongue, disability, previous work experience, etc. in addition, the nature of traditional professions and the way people think have changed, and i believe that the third priority in modernising higher education systems should be to improve the efficiency of vocational guidance. in addition to introducing different career paths, counselling should also encourage people to choose careers that are atypical for their gender (e.g. encouraging men to work in institutions offering secondary education or in more technical fields for women).
in writing. − the report 'e-government as a driver for a competitive digital single market' outlines the main it developments in the european union and possible further developments. in recent years, we have made remarkable progress in digital development more and more people have access to high-speed internet and more and more people use it on a daily basis. with this in mind, steps have already been taken to make public services accessible to citizens. the next objective is to coordinate the recognition of online identification possibilities that is, natural and legal persons can now prove their identity online and sign documents, but this may not be recognised by another member state of the european union. as a result, public services offered on the internet are still limited today. i believe that citizens of the european union should be able to carry out e-services and e-actions across borders and therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − while fighting global climate change is in everyone's interest, it is particularly important for women as the most socially vulnerable gender. it is well known that women are more at risk of poverty and less competitive in the labour market. but today we are in a situation where decisions affecting society as a whole are overwhelmingly taken by men, including on environmental issues. for a better overview, we should first collect statistics on both the impact of climate action on women and who is the decision-maker in environmental policy areas - men or women? environmental issues and the measures taken to address them are of global concern and affect all people, which is why it is crucial that no gender is under-represented in delegations of negotiators and decision-makers. the report 'women and climate change' highlights these issues, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − despite the fact that the un has declared 2010 to 2020 the decade of biodiversity and the european union considers the protection of biodiversity to be one of its very important priorities, it is regrettable that the world's environmental advocate has not been able to meet its own 2010 targets. we have a habit of pointing the finger at the developing world, but this time, we need to look in the mirror. nor is it the solution to bring the most polluting factories into the european industrial environment in developing countries and report that things are getting better. planet earth is the common home of all human beings, and the activities of each country and nation affect and affect all of us, regardless of geographical location. biodiversity and climate change are directly and mutually linked and we need to approach these issues at a global level. in order to ensure that the objectives of the european union in the field of biodiversity protection are met, the various spheres of life need to be more closely involved and the importance of environmental impact assessment needs to be given greater emphasis. the role of the european agricultural policy is certainly one of the most important in achieving these objectives, and i am therefore pleased that the next reform of the cap will take this into account. i agree with the points of concern and the proposals made in the report, which is why i voted in favour.
mr president, the transition to democracy of the countries in the southern mediterranean must be enhanced by creating a favourable environment for trade and investment. therefore, i am pleased with the council decision authorising the opening of negotiations for deep and comprehensive free trade agreements (dcftas) with some of the southern mediterranean countries. it is essential that conditions are created for a strong middle class to emerge in the region. the dcftas will invigorate these countries’ economies, which in turn will allow new jobs to be created. unemployment and low standards of living are the main causes of migratory flows from the southern mediterranean. prosperity in the region would, on the one hand, reduce the migratory pressure on the european union, in particular in its southern member states, and, on the other hand, open emerging markets for european enterprises, which is also a very important perspective.
in writing. – the eu’s strongest incentive for democratic change in third countries is its trade and investment perspectives. the arab spring revealed some embarrassing structural and systemic shortcomings in eu policies dealing with the countries of north africa and the middle east. a new eu trade policy has to provide incentives for structural reforms, and also contributing to food and water security in the region. this will be the most effective means of convincing the people of the region that political democracy is the most efficient way to economic progress and justice. it is good that the report is very clear on the involvement of civil society in all social processes. i emphasise the need for the eu and its civil society to be proactive and work hand in hand with local civil society to assist and support their efforts. only a pluralistic and vibrant civil society can bring about the change from within and ensure that democratic efforts are pursued. i remind the eu to be firm in its strive for trade and investments, making sure that economic relations are accompanied by achievements and real results in respect of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. economic liberalisation and democratisation need to be complementary and simultaneous to each other.
mr president, i would like to address the alarming political developments in russia and ukraine. much to our regret, the attempts to reach democracy in both countries have encountered very serious setbacks. the violent crackdown on peaceful pro-democracy demonstrations in moscow, relating to the inauguration of president putin, and the ongoing politically motivated persecution of yulia tymoshenko in ukraine are the actions of non-democratic regimes. putin is behaving like a self-proclaimed tsar, beating and arresting protesters who might cast a shadow over his crowning celebrations, and yanukovych has turned to medieval practices of torturing political opponents. the european parliament must take resolute action and condemn these grave human rights violations. we have been too patient with our eastern neighbours, but their empty promises have exhausted themselves. further, targeted sanctions are needed to clarify our value-based policies.
in writing. regional airports are important from several points of view. first, they ensure the functioning of the interregional transport of people and goods. secondly, they are the creators of regional economic growth. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 29 june 2010 and that the agreement with ryanair was signed on 30 june 2010. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 29 june 2010 and entered into force on 1 january 2010. the impact of this report is difficult to overestimate, given that europe has over two hundred regional airports, which are the most important access points for connecting many regions. i am certainly in favour of continuing to grant state aid to smaller airports, especially in those areas where, for a certain period of time, air connections are the only means of connection. i also agree with the rapporteur that the independence of regional airports must be guaranteed, that the aggressive behaviour of monopoly airlines must be reduced and that the quality of service to passengers must be ensured. i believe that regional airports must also be taken into account in future transport policy for the trans-european transport network and in the development of general regional and cohesion policy. however, i would like to stress that, in the case of the ten-t, projects to be added to future periods must not alter the timing and the volumes of the current agreed projects.
in writing. the european commission's proposal, which strengthens legal certainty and improves citizens' access to legal acts of the european union, was approved by a large majority. the electronic edition of the official journal (oj) will constitute the official, authentic and correct version of the oj. the european union must be transparent, and make it easier for european citizens to access the legislative measures it adopts, because europe is directly relevant to you.
in writing. − i gave my consent to the draft council regulation which would give the electronic version of the official journal of the european union the same legal status as the printed version. today, most users of the official journal of the european union make their enquiries in its electronic environment (eur-lex) and it is curious that, although we have an online database through which all european union legislation is accessible, the reference to its online version does not have a legal basis. this means that information on the legislation in force must be sought in the paper version of the official journal of the european union, which is time-consuming, expensive and outdated. the adoption of this regulation as soon as possible will facilitate the orientation of eu legislation and avoid unjustified duplication of research.
in writing. − i supported this report, considering the development of regional airports and air services to be of great importance in order to ensure the free movement of people and a more coherent economic development of the different regions. in my island home country of estonia, the importance of regional airports is extremely important, especially since the aircraft is the only means of transport to the mainland during the winter on many small islands. regional airports also play an important role in reducing congestion at hub airports. in order to make small airports sustainable and more profitable, they must be connected to larger airports and contribute to improving infrastructure.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. in today's vote i supported the adoption of the report on the future of regional airports and air services in the european union, as it is an important project from a regional, regional and internal market perspective. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 29 june 2012 and entered into force on 1 january 2013. i agree with the rapporteur that regional airports and air services in the european union play a central role in creating an efficient and functioning eu transport network that facilitates trade and ensures greater mobility of people. regional aviation can play an important role in ensuring that free movement within the eu becomes a reality not only for people living in large capitals but also for eu citizens living outside these areas. it is important to note that these cities and regions would not only benefit from greater mobility but also from the development of tourism, enabling access to new markets and attracting more economic inward investment.
in writing. − despite the various shortcomings in the implementation of the 2010 budget, i supported the adoption of this report, which detailed the many shortcomings and contained appropriate proposals to improve the situation. i regret that the various payments have been significantly affected by errors and that the monitoring and control systems are only partially effective. nor is it normal that there is insufficient information on the use of current financial management instruments, and this applies to all policy areas. as a member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i consider it important that the court of auditors should assess the implementation of the budget, where possible through a gender perspective. unfortunately, this annual report does not contain the observations of the court of auditors or the commission's replies on gender-related expenditure. the gender budget audit is a prerequisite for the preparation of a gender budget and will hopefully be taken into account in the preparation of subsequent annual reports.
in writing. − i supported this report, agreeing with the court's special reports on the implementation of the commission's budget for 2010. following the court's proposal in special report no 7/2010, i believe it is important to reform the clearance of accounts procedure in order to shorten the procedure and establish a clear link between the amounts recovered and the actual irregular payments. as regards special report no 14/2010 on the safety of imported meat, i fully agree with the recommendation of the court of auditors that the commission should aim to eliminate differences in treatment between member states, i.e. discrimination in third countries. for example, the russian federation has imposed an import ban on pigs and other animals on the member states of the european union, which is essentially limited to estonia and latvia, as exports of live animals from those countries represent the majority of eu exports of live animals to russia. valuing food hygiene standards is a worthless tool for achieving other policy objectives and should be condemned at a higher european level. in special report 07/2011, i consider it important to develop more targeted rural development plans in the member states, because the aim must be to implement them effectively, not to draw them up simply because the european bureaucracy demands it.
in writing. − i have given my assent to the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2010. the institute was established in 2006 and became independent only in june 2010, which means that only half of the financial year in question the institution has been independent and this has to be taken into account when it comes to the sustainability of the european institute for gender equality. unlike my group, i decided to support the continuation of the european institute for gender equality as an independent body and not to support its merger with any other institution in order to reduce costs. in 2006, we considered the establishment of the institute necessary and it is premature to make decisions on the efficiency of the work of the agency or on the fulfilment of its objectives, since the last procedures for its establishment were completed only in 2010 and there are still a number of vacancies that are essential for the work of the institute. the gender equality institute and its work are important for addressing gender equality issues at european level and we should not put any restrictions or obstacles to the establishment of the institution.
in writing. − the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental freedoms of the european union. moreover, we have set ourselves the goal of making travel and resettlement within the union as convenient as possible for people and reducing the unjustified costs involved. one of these is the cost of mobile telephony, which remains disproportionately high in a context of low competition. in addition to roaming charges, data rates that are too high for large numbers of people travelling have become a problem, as have high bills due to insufficient information or human error. the current recast of the regulation seeks to address these shortcomings and establishes uniform conditions for both roaming tariffs and, for example, consumer information in the european union. i believe that prices and conditions for roaming on public mobile networks must be kept reasonable, as this will lead to a more unified and competitive european internal market and protect consumers. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. the use of a mobile phone has become as common and necessary today as eating and drinking. the purpose of using telephones has also changed in addition to calling, mobile phones are used to send and receive sms messages or to surf the internet or to use gps. the number of users and services is growing day by day. while mobile roaming charges have received more attention in recent years, unfortunately there are still unreasonably high costs for the use of voice and messaging services, especially for the transmission of data, where prices can vary by hundreds of times. it is a pleasure to welcome this report as a further development of the european internal market. if people can move freely from one member state to another, they must also be able to communicate freely and at reasonable prices and to use a variety of mobile services. i therefore supported the adoption of this report and i look forward to more favourable prices for mobile services.
in writing. − i supported this report and the recommendations it makes to amend regulation (ec) no 864/2007 by adding a provision on privacy and personal rights the right to apply, inter alia, to a non-contractual debt relationship arising from defamation, the law of the country where the most important circumstances of the damage occur. this is necessary to avoid the so-called 'slander tourism' that is taking place today, where the injured party seeks the country where he is most likely to obtain the most favourable outcome (for example, in the form of higher compensation) as the place of proceedings and places the publisher in an unfair situation. the second proposal in the report to address the problematic situation described is to create a separate institution an out-of-court dispute resolution centre to resolve such cross-border privacy and individual rights violations (including defamation) in order to help protect the rights of the publisher as well as the victim, in addition to preventing defamation.
in writing. − the issue of maritime piracy in somalia cannot be solved by military means alone, which is why i also supported this resolution, which called for a political solution to the issue through support for the building of a horn of africa society. it is good to note that the eu is the world's largest donor of development assistance to somalia, providing eur 215,4 million between 2008 and 2013, thereby strengthening somalia's weak central authority and making a significant contribution to finding a lasting solution to the country's stability problem. nevertheless, i also consider it important to extend the eu military mission to ensure the safety of the 10 000 european ships that pass through dangerous maritime areas every year.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms bozkurt, for this report. it is really good and well balanced. as is rightly emphasised, the issue of women’s rights is a major challenge on turkey’s road to the european union and it certainly merits a special report. the unanimous voting in the committee shows the strong support received from shadow rapporteurs and others, so thank you very much, ms bozkurt, for your work. as you mentioned, commissioner füle was in turkey last week and he discussed women’s rights with a range of civil society representatives. protecting women’s rights in turkey, promoting gender equality and combating violence against women remain major challenges. the legal framework guaranteeing women’s rights and gender equality is broadly in place and has been further reinforced by the recent law to protect women and family members from violence, and the commission agrees that this is an important step forward. but, as all of you have underlined, the legal framework is not enough: it needs to translate into political, social and economic reality for women everywhere in turkey. legislation needs to be implemented consistently across the country. further training and awareness-raising on women’s rights and gender equality are needed, particularly for the police. of course, as was also underlined in the report, serious problems remain with so-called ‘honour’ killings (which is a horrible term because there is nothing honourable in such brutality), as well as early enforced marriages and domestic violence against women. the report calls upon us in the commission to make the issue of women’s rights central to the negotiations with turkey, and it mentions in this respect progress on the negotiation chapter devoted to the judiciary and fundamental rights. as you know, the positive agenda in eu-turkey relations, which was endorsed by the council in december, includes the judiciary and fundamental rights among its main features. during his visit to turkey, commissioner füle launched concrete work on this positive agenda. i am happy to report that he chaired the first meeting of the working group on judiciary and fundamental rights with justice minister ergin, with the aim of fostering reforms in turkey in this crucial area. he also had a separate meeting with the minister on the same day to underline these issues. commissioner füle told the minister that steps need to be taken to implement the new law on violence against women and to improve the real-life situation of women in turkey as regards political representation and access to education and employment. while we need to combat violence against women as a matter of urgency, we also need to keep a focus on all the other aspects – and that is precisely what this resolution does. madam president, honourable members, we share the same concerns about women in turkey. the issues mentioned here in the debate are indeed grave; some of the stories are compelling; and there is a lot to be done. reforms need to be further accelerated. as i said, commissioner füle met civil society representatives and they assured him that they see the european union as a vital source of support for their cause. we have legislation guaranteeing equality; we have standards protecting women against violence; and that is why the accession process is so important with regard to reforms on vital issues such as women’s rights, and the implementation of those reforms. we must continue to encourage the progress of reform. our leverage and influence in turkey will be all the more credible and all the stronger if our commitments – as outlined in 2005 when we launched the accession negotiations – remain unambiguous.
in writing. turkey, as a candidate country for eu membership, is obliged to respect the values and the legal framework of the community. it is positive that the legal framework for women's rights is largely established. today, they are in the process of being implemented. it is positive that the ministry of family and social policy has started work, a gender equality committee has been set up in parliament, national action plans have been adopted, etc. these are not mere words or papers, but all the relevant ministers are working together and implementing projects to enforce legislation on improving women's living standards. the most serious problems in turkey today are domestic violence against women. there are still gaps in the legislation on this. on the positive side, there is a growing awareness of this in society. the media, whose role in changing the public mind is invaluable, has acted responsibly. the rapporteur, ms emine bozkurt, has been given a relevant and expert report.
mr president, i want to make three points. we need to provide for easier and user-friendly access to funding as it is still too cumbersome and complicated. relaxing co-financing rules and simplifying application procedures will be the key issues to address. secondly, we have not spoken much about insufficient information on funding opportunities, especially information on additional funding, for example from the european social fund or european investment bank. thirdly, i would ask the commission about the involvement of smes, their opportunities and funding in implementation of the eu’s macro-regional strategies. it is an open question but, for the baltic sea strategy, so far i am not aware of one project with participation of smes, and they have a very important role in cross-border cooperation. finally, is the commission prepared to encourage member states to come forward with national plans to support smes?
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union must be taken very seriously, since smes account for more than 99% of all enterprises in both estonia and the eu, and it is therefore important that this large majority has access to financial resources and to the european union's structural funds. i believe that the situation of smes and the use of eu funds must be made more efficient and that it must be ensured that the liquidity crisis of the financial crisis, which particularly affected smes, is not repeated. another crucial issue is the reduction of red tape to ensure that smes have greater and easier access to structural fund support and subsequent monitoring of its use. in addition, it is necessary to harmonise and simplify the requirements for the preparation and presentation of economic and financial statements by smes in order to reduce their administrative burden. i sincerely hope that the increased and simplified availability of financial instruments and structural assistance to smes will help to propel the european economy to a new level in the near future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the union’s internal security strategy. the issue to be highlighted here is the need for closer cooperation between the external and internal security dimensions, and it is important that the report has called, once again, for such cooperation to be established. one of the areas in which cooperation between these two security dimensions could be mandatory is cyber-security. such cooperation would include practical cooperation among various institutions, member states, partner organisations and third countries. i note with regret that while both the commission communication on the first annual report and the afet opinion stress the role of cyber-security, the report in question reduces the issue to that of ‘cyber crime’. the eu institutions and member states need to realise fully that most current security threats are in the cyber sphere. in the near future the role of cyber attacks will increase dramatically. it is urgent to mainstream cyber-security into all areas, making it our primary security concern.
in writing. − while citizens of the eu member states enjoy greater consumer protection than those of any other region of the world, we are still far from meeting all the targets set. one of the more pressing problems in this area is ensuring the rights and protection of the most vulnerable consumers, for which a strategy should be developed in cooperation between the commission and the member states. it is now clear that the information work carried out through campaigns is not enough, especially for people who simply do not know or understand the options available or the mechanisms for dealing with complaints and compensation. the development of recent years has shown that consumer protection, and in particular the protection of the most vulnerable consumers, should be strengthened, in particular in the areas of financial services, low-cost air travel, online advertising or access to justice. among other things, we need to take more seriously the fact that children, adolescents and the elderly receive and understand information related to their nutritional choices, with a view to large-scale campaigns on foods high in sugar, fat and salt.
in writing. − i supported this report, considering it important to carry out an impact assessment of the possible introduction of one and two-denomination banknotes by the commission. in many euro area member states, where average wages are significantly below the eu average, the possible introduction of these banknotes deserves more consideration. unfortunately for euro coins, a literally heavy wallet speaks as if we were still living in the middle ages. of course, the one and two euro notes will wear out faster, but i support the introduction of the one and two euro notes if the commission's impact assessment is positive, i.e. the use of paper money will be cheaper than the use of coins and this will have a significant positive impact on the european tourism economy.
in writing. - i support the proposals for amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament set out in the report drawn up by ms gurmai. there is a very strong consensus that in order to strengthen participatory democracy in the european union, mechanisms should be put in place to enable citizens to participate directly in policy-making. the amendments will give citizens the opportunity to have a say in the planning of the agendas of the european union institutions. in other words, citizens will have the opportunity to organise, with the help of the european union institutions and the means available, public hearings on topics of current interest and concern to one or another of the citizens' associations. the organisation of public hearings gives citizens the opportunity to introduce and draw the attention of their representatives to issues that might otherwise fall off the agenda but are still worth addressing. this report sets out how and under whose responsibility this mechanism would operate in the european parliament.
in writing. − as s&d co-rapporteur, i am pleased that we were able to reach agreement with the european commission and the council of the european union in the final text of the report to carry out an impact assessment on the use of the 1 and 2 cent euro coins. the european union should move increasingly towards electronic means of payment and the effective circulation of coins is a step in this direction.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. the accelerated phasing-in of double bottom and ballast or equivalent design requirements for single bottom and ballast oil tankers is a very important issue. the oil spills caused by the oil tanker accidents, in particular the erika in 1999 and the prestige in 2002, are major environmental disasters with devastating consequences for marine fauna and flora. this year, there have already been two accidents involving oil tankers in europe, which fortunately did not cause any major environmental damage, but which once again proves that these vessels have a relatively high incidence of accidents and therefore the safety of the environment, the vessel and its crew must be guaranteed. by adopting this regulation, we will reduce the risk of accidental oil spillage in european waters by accelerating the introduction of double bottom and double bottom tanks. for vessels with a single bottom and a single beam, the oil in the cargo tank is separated from the seawater only by the bottom and the plexiglass wall. the double-walled structure protects the cargo tank in the event of an accident and thereby reduces the risk of contamination. on the basis of the above, i supported the adoption of this report.
in writing. − i voted against the report on the financial transaction tax. since the compromise amendment 52, tabled by astrid lulling on the exemption of ucits from the scope of the ftt was rejected, i found it unacceptable to vote in favour. in principle, the possible introduction of the ftt, even if approved by the council – which looks highly improbable as several governments have voiced their opposition – is not going to address the main issues of the economic crisis or to really regulate the financial markets. at the end of the day, we lack guarantees that it will not be the citizens who have to pay more. furthermore, no rules have been foreseen to supervise the implementation of the proposed ftt. on the other hand, financial services will have good incentives to move outside the eu. as there are no realistic prospects of introducing the ftt on the global or even on the eu scale, it will be cheaper to abstain from it now, rather than to waste considerable time and resources only to come to the conclusion that it has proved rather inefficient lip-service to justice and economic revival.
in writing. − i believe that the introduction of a single european financial transaction tax is essential to find additional resources to stimulate the economy and ensure the sustainability of the european union. the imposition of this tax is entirely fair and necessary in view of the fact that the financial sector, which is the main cause of the financial crisis, has received significant public support to overcome the effects of the crisis, but has not contributed sufficiently to this. as a liberal, i think it's important that in a free market economy, all parties should be treated equally. the current exemption for financial transactions is not fair in view of the fact that different services have to be paid for. to overcome the financial crisis, the european union needs a lot of resources to actually implement, or finance, the agreed economic programmes, and the introduction of a corresponding tax is one of the fair ways to do this. the fear that the introduction of such a tax will drive the banking sector out of europe is unfounded, as the experience of various countries, led by brazil, one of the largest countries in the world, where banks have remained close to their customers, shows. although i support the creation of a single system of financial transaction tax, i did not support the adoption of this report because our group's amendment no 42, which would have a single system at least for the whole euro area and for the member states wishing to join, did not find the necessary support.
in writing. - it is long past time to move from words to deeds in the eu-china economic relationship. that is why i also supported this report, which recalls the commitment of the leaders of the people's republic of china to work together to build a partnership of equals based on mutual respect, friendship and trust. i therefore consider it extremely important that china should put an end to discrimination against european companies, such as the prohibition on participation in public procurement, and ensure that our companies are treated in the same way as european companies when it comes to investment. it would also be in china's own interest for european companies to contribute to the modernisation of the country by introducing new technologies and, with higher economic growth, for europe to consume more chinese goods in return. in a liberal and fair free market economy, all parties would win.
in writing. − i supported the proposal to adopt a regulation governing the exercise of the european parliament's right of inquiry, given that the treaty of lisbon has changed the role of the european parliament and, with it, its right to exercise political control. whereas in the past the establishment of the rules governing the right of inquiry was a joint task of the european parliament, the commission and the council, it is now established by parliament by means of a regulation. the new regulation makes substantive changes, for example, to the commission's right to ask the national parliaments to cooperate with it, to the right to carry out all kinds of investigations (on-the-spot investigations, requests for documents, etc.) and to the determination of the persons liable for reimbursement of costs. the establishment of european parliament committees of inquiry and the use of the instruments set out in the new regulation to redress illegal or unfair situations or to investigate alleged irregularities or maladministration will help to fulfil the european parliament's powers of supervision (it is important to note that parliament has no powers of sanction in this respect), which will also ensure a more democratic functioning of the european union institutions.
mr president, what we are observing today is how a long-term internal conflict has expanded into a full-blown international conflict that is about to explode. but i am encouraged by the active role played by the eu’s leaders and its external action service in putting pressure on both governments to stick to the 2 may 2012 roadmap and come to a peaceful settlement. what the eu should do is address much more actively chinese activity in the region, because it is not a great stabilising influence. it is good news that the security council has recently extended its mission in the region by six months. what we need today is for the joint border verification and monitoring mechanism – which should deploy international observers to monitor developments on the ground – to be up and running. we also need to address the humanitarian situation: almost 400 000 south sudanese have managed to return to sudan after independence, thanks to the help of the many frontline partners. we now need to ensure that their basic needs for food, water and medication will be provided for. the eu should provide more meaningful support to the efforts provided by the un and humanitarian organisations.
in writing. – mr president, since the declaration of independence in 1973 guinea-bissau has been tormented with political instability. bearing in mind that the country has witnessed massacres, assassinations, a civil war and a number of military coups, i am disappointed that once again any hope for political progress has been spoiled by another coup d’état. the alde group endorses the conclusions of the foreign affairs council meeting condemning the coup. following the negotiations led by the economic community of west african states, the putschists have finally agreed to a 12-month transition to civilian rule. nevertheless, the targeted sanctions that the eu imposed on the military junta led by general antonio indjai should not be lifted before the legitimate government is re-established, the democratic electoral process is completed and constitutional order is restored. the eu must take measures to prevent senior military figures from taking advantage of the situation and increasing and benefiting from drug trafficking during the transition period. we also welcome the deployment of ecowas peacekeeping troops and hope that the reported looting and human rights abuses by the military will be brought to an end and that a gradual transition will be allowed to take place without bloodshed.
on behalf of the alde group. the honourable commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. we're not in the middle ages anymore, but still, being born a woman brings injustice. half of us, more than half of society, and yet we're swallowed up by this injustice. today's topic is pay inequality. despite the large number of laws in place for almost 40 years and the measures taken to reduce the gender pay gap, the gender pay gap persists - there has been no significant shift. words have not become deeds. i would like to commend the rapporteur, mrs bauer, on her determination. he was also the author of a report on the same subject adopted in 2008. unfortunately, the commission has not responded adequately to the contents of that report. today the situation has changed, legally changed. the lisbon treaty gives parliament a stronger legal mandate, and we are using it. the report does not give priority to the elimination of the horizontal pay gap. by aiming to end the pay gap between men and women for the same or equivalent work, we have also made a major step towards the elimination of the horizontal pay gap. to achieve this, we need to ensure that objective instruments for the assessment of work and the classification of occupations are adopted in each member state, that regular wage audits are carried out and that the results are made available to workers. in this context, i would like to ask my colleagues to consider once again whether the objection to the disclosure of salaries and bonuses, in the context of the data protection act, is legally proportionate in this context. the alde group members are convinced of the need to implement legislation better and faster to eliminate gender inequalities in pay policy. i thank you.
mr president, i have one proposal to make, although though i doubt that the rules of procedure give me the right to make it. i would call on the rapporteurs to ask for the postponement of this vote today, in order to give the delegation mentioned by mr gallagher the time and opportunity to negotiate, and to convey our concerns to the swiss authorities about the unfortunate decisions, of a discriminatory nature, which they have taken. if the delegation comes back without being able to convince our swiss colleagues – in other words, if it is a complete failure – we can follow up with the tough resolution which has been debated today.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think it is right to start by saying that switzerland is one of our partners and a sincere friend. we should never forget that and we should nurture the relationship. i have my own experience from international negotiations in an environmental area, where we have extremely good cooperation. they are also truly a globally respected partner. but this is an important issue we are discussing today and it deserves a clear, united and straightforward approach and reaction. the commission attaches great importance to the solution of the institutional issues which affect our relations with switzerland and in several areas which are related to the internal market. as i have already mentioned, we will certainly open this issue in the joint committee in a few weeks. the scarce and inefficient means of contesting the re-establishment of quotas, or the so-called flanking measures, and having them revoked show that such institutional issues are not only theoretical or a matter of principle but, on the contrary, they have very practical implications for the rights and legitimate interests of citizens and economic operators. just to give two short concrete clarifications on points mentioned by members. the guillotine clause referred to by mr busuttil applies in the case of the termination of one of the agreements. so we have no intention of proposing the denunciation of the agreement. this would be even more detrimental for the european union and also for our citizens. on the questions, even if we in the commission bring into play any measure related to the existing agreements or the ongoing negotiations, this issue clearly underlines once more the inadequacy of our current agreement. the commission will keep this, as well as other issues, under consideration when examining whether it is opportune to start new negotiations or conclude ongoing ones. also the council, in its conclusions of december 2010 on the relations with efta countries, indicated that, ‘in assessing the balance of interests in concluding additional agreements, it will have in mind the need to ensure parallel progress in all areas of cooperation, including those areas which cause difficulties to eu companies and citizens’. to conclude, yes, we have a problem and, yes, we are working on solving it. i would like to thank honourable members for raising these questions. of course the commission counts on parliament’s support in the forthcoming discussions with regard to switzerland.
in writing. – i am estonian. i am citizen of the eu. my country joined the european union believing that it would be treated equally and would fully enjoy all of the same rights enjoyed by european citizens. since the 2004 enlargement, the peoples of the ten post-communist countries have had to face several hurdles in their progress towards real equality – often accompanied by humiliations – such as: delays in opening up the job market, restrictive measures on business making, etc. as a member of efta, switzerland has signed the free movement of persons agreement, which guarantees all eu citizens equal rights on the swiss labour and business market. introducing restrictive measures and quotas for nationals of some eu member states has to be assessed as a discriminatory measure. clearly, it cannot be derived from article 10 of the 1999 agreement. quotas should be established for all eu nationals or for no one; they are not supposed be used in a selective way based on nationality. there are some alarming trends in today's europe: hate websites in the netherlands and belgium, and new swiss laws which result in the practical marginalisation of citizens originating from post-communist eu member states. i call on the commission to unconditionally condemn such acts and, if necessary, to apply the necessary sanctions.
in writing. − in the context of the ongoing economic crisis, europe and the world are at a crossroads to decide which way to go to make our human and natural environment sustainable. it is clear that the economic downturn will be followed by a strong recovery and our economy is already showing signs of recovery, which is why europe needs a new roadmap for new growth. the new growth engine must be resource efficiency through the development of various environmental technologies, not intelligent consumption. the transition to a green economy is inevitable and i am pleased that several eu member states, led by germany, have already realised this, seeing it as an opportunity for economic development and recovery, not as an additional cost. i supported the report for these reasons and i hope that europe's green economy will set a good example for the rest of the world.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. in today's vote i supported the adoption of the resolution on the swiss quota for the issuing of residence permits to citizens of estonia, poland, lithuania, latvia, slovenia, slovakia, the czech republic and hungary. it is regrettable that switzerland has not consistently complied with the agreements and wants to participate in the internal market of the european union only on the basis of the rules that suit it and without fulfilling its own obligations. surprisingly, all eight of these countries are eastern european countries that joined in 2004, and there is no justification for such discriminatory behaviour. all these countries have fulfilled their obligations under both the eu and the schengen visa system in 2004 and therefore deserve equal treatment. i hope that the european union and its institutions will not renege on the promises they have made to these countries and their citizens, and that their rights will also be guaranteed in switzerland.
author. − mr president, the totalitarian policies of the democratic people’s republic of korea, which have been used to oppress its citizens for over 60 years, have led to a great number of north koreans fleeing to the people’s republic of china. unfortunately, both people’s republics have taken an inhumane stance towards those refugees – the former placing the repatriated refugees in prison camps and subjecting them to forced labour, torture and even execution, and the latter arresting and returning them to north korea, thus breaching the 1951 refugee convention. the european union must resolutely condemn this atrocious practice and raise it at all eu-china high-level talks, among the other human rights violations that have been repeatedly underlined by the european parliament. i call on china to release all north korean refugees from custody in order to seek asylum in third countries.
in writing. − it is regrettable that the floods in october last year caused such damage to the italian provinces of liguria and tuscany that the direct damage from the disaster is estimated at a staggering €722.5 million. as a result of the natural disaster, the european union solidarity fund is able to provide assistance to italy to help it deal with the consequences of the floods, with a budget of eur 18 061 682. the italian floods are the first such request for assistance this year, which means that the budget of the european union solidarity fund has sufficient funds to meet the request and to maintain a sufficient reserve for the last quarter of 2012. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the solidarity fund and i believe that the aid should be provided as soon as possible so that the regions of liguria and tuscany can return to their former status.
in writing. − i voted in favour of mr kalfin’s report as i agree in principal with the rapporteur’s conclusions that the eu is in urgent need of a global cyber security strategy. a strategy that will contain both internal as well as external aspects. we understand the need for clear and harmonised definitions, principles and instruments to efficiently address the challenges regarding internet security and more broadly – cyber security. the latter should not be seen a problem hovering somewhere between today and tomorrow. concentrating on it is a task for today. in particular the member states have to realize that cyber security is a horizontal issue that penetrates all areas of governmental, business, military and civilian action. i hope that the report just adopted will contribute to the deepening of general awareness of the urgency of cooperation and sharing.
madam president, i would like to commend our colleague on preparing an excellent report. i can only agree with the high representative that it is the least regulated sector of economic activities that we have to deal with. it is an irony that global arms exports have been spared the economic crisis. instead, they have flourished. eu member states are responsible for about one third of all arms exports; of the ten leading exporters of arms, six are eu member states. uncontrolled trading in arms continues to be a constant challenge, not only to international peace but also to democracy. therefore, our ideal should be a legally binding and comprehensive arms trade treaty (att). the eu has a special responsibility for the overall improvement of the situation, because if we cannot take the lead in showing determination and coordination, then what can we expect from others? therefore, we call on the member states to provide their full support to the eu delegation taking part in future negotiations. job creation is a reality that cannot simply be set aside, but it should not become an excuse for evading a clear commitment to un standards, transparency and a united european approach. the justification given for selling mistrals to russia was the preservation of jobs in the french shipbuilding industry. clear provisions for regular reporting by all future parties to the treaty on all arms transfer decisions, including the disclosure of recipients of military equipment, will be of key importance.
mr president, there is a popular saying which says that all that is required for evil to prevail is for good men to do nothing. i am not suggesting that the eu has responded inadequately to the syrian crisis, but rather that in the light of recent events, we simply have to do more. the crisis that has lasted for the past 15 months has turned syria into a genuine battlefield, where thousands of innocent people have been killed. the reluctance to initiate a ceasefire or, more specifically, meet the conditions of the annan plan, show there to be no indications of these killings stopping. i believe that the international community has the obligation to step up and consider all possible measures that can put an end to this horrific power struggle. the targeted sanctions, including travel bans and financial penalties against the regime, must be further implemented. more importantly, the eu should urge all countries to adopt an embargo on the supply of arms to the syrian regime, starting with russia.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the alde group has drawn attention to the human rights situation in tibet on several occasions, yet we have failed to see much progress being made. we appreciate that the eu has raised the tibetan issues in the framework of the eu-china human rights dialogue, but clearly further steps are needed to move on from formal rhetoric to genuine dialogue and commitment. the policies of the people’s republic of china have become increasingly repressive after the protests of 2008. there is an ongoing human rights crisis in tibet, which manifests itself in arrests, torture and political imprisonment; restricted freedom of expression, association and belief, as well as in the marginalisation of tibetan identity, language and culture. such repressive policies have provoked the reported self-immolation of 38 tibetans since 2009. the gravity of the situation calls for greater involvement of the eu. we therefore strongly urge the soon-to-be-appointed european union special representative for human rights to ensure that the eu spotlight remains on tibet by reporting regularly on this issue. however, in order to reflect the gravity of the tibetan issue and worsening repression, we strongly believe that the high representative must also appoint a special coordinator for tibet responsible for advancing the human rights of the tibetan people and encouraging constructive dialogue between the prc and the tibetan government-in-exile. it has been repeatedly stressed that human rights are an integral part of eu external policies, which is all the more reason for taking an exemplary position in our relations with china, as human rights have remained the main obstacle so far.
in writing. − i supported the adoption of this report, considering it important to strengthen the surveillance of countries in financial difficulties. the rapporteur's proposals to simplify the supervisory procedure by giving the commission a greater role in decision-making and to create a system of redress for member states threatened with insolvency or suspension of payments are important additions to the commission's proposals. it is regrettable that europe should have taken these measures years ago, because then we would have avoided the problems that some countries are unfortunately experiencing. of course, better late than never, and with the implementation of this regulation and the european economic governance package (six legislative proposals) adopted by the european parliament and the council in 2011, there is hope that europe will emerge stronger from this economic crisis.
in writing. − i supported the joint resolution of the five european parliamentary groups on the financial framework and own resources, given the need for a more transparent and flexible financial framework and new genuine own resources. that is why i also supported the proposals which stressed the need for new own resources, such as the creation of a financial transaction tax, to finance the european economic aid package, to develop the european economy and the common welfare of all of us. the imposition of this tax is entirely fair and necessary in view of the fact that the financial sector, which is the main cause of the financial crisis, has received significant public support to overcome the effects of the crisis, but has not contributed sufficiently to this. i consider it extremely important and fundamental that the objectives and policy areas of the mff should be agreed before funds are allocated to them. the european parliament and the council should also negotiate all issues related to the mff with a view to reaching a comprehensive agreement.
in writing. − madam president, i voted in favour of report, because human rights are a fundamental part of the external relations of the eu and the appointment of the eu special representative for human rights emphasises the commitment of the eu to defending human rights worldwide. i would hope that the first eusr for hr will address promptly the existing discrepancies within the cfsp, in particular concerning the measures towards third countries and their citizens, who are responsible for human rights violations. although the geographical scope of the activities of the eusr for hr will be global, i would like to underline the importance of the human rights situation in the peoples' republic of china, especially tibet and east turkestan, and russia. their influence on international affairs, which cannot be underestimated, should not discourage the future eusr for hr from raising the human rights violations in those countries.
member of the commission. - mr president, as i was long before, i will be quicker and nevertheless thank everyone who spoke. andreas schwab, earlier, mrs handzlik, mrs le grip, louis grech, all of them have clearly indicated that we are concerned not with making speeches - andreas schwab said that - but with taking action. this is the meaning of the two operational documents on services and the governance of the internal market, which the commission is implementing, in particular to reduce the time taken for infringement proceedings from 25 months to 18 months and, if possible, even less. you can be sure that this is the meaning of these communications and that the commission is doing and will do its work. we will set up this partnership, particularly with the idea of a practical guide for citizens and businesses. but if the partnership is not respected, if it is broken, then there will be no tolerance, it will be zero tolerance. that is why it is also important to integrate this governance into the european semester, and to ensure that there is no discrimination on the basis of nationality or place of residence - i say this to malcolm harbour. i also noted what mr pirker said about these different regulations and i will discuss it with my colleague mr kallas on road safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr correia de campos, we are doing and will continue to do the social impact studies we have committed ourselves to. i also think that the overall approach that louis grech first recommended must remain ours. i say to mrs vergnaud that if she still finds imbalances, as i understand it, in the single market act, there is this second stage which we are preparing, which you have explained, and where we could, on certain subjects concerning consumers and citizens, achieve a better balance. in any case, i welcome your suggestions for the preparation of the second stage of the 12 new proposals which the commission will present in september. mr manders, mr bielan, mrs sinclaire and mr kelly all spoke of small and mediumsized enterprises. i have said before you - and i really promise you that i am committed to this objective on a daily basis - that we must reconcile the single market with the citizens and with small and mediumsized enterprises, which have felt that this single market is not for them. when you look, ladies and gentlemen, at patents, simplification of public procurement, accounting standards, digitisation, mr kelly, markets or eu authentication, the measures we are taking for banks - with less stringent prudential measures for smes - or even company law, which we will talk about shortly, there is clearly a light, a differentiated approach to promote investment and employment of small and mediumsized enterprises. róża thun mentioned various services which are not covered by the services directive. as i speak, 85% of services are covered by a european text. the services directive is arguably the main instrument - but not the only one - for making the services economy work well on the european continent. i will also tell mrs irigoyen pérez, who has just spoken, that i intend to make a number of concrete proposals this year for consumer protection, particularly in financial services, for transparency of bank charges and access to basic accounts. a word to conclude. we are preparing for this great week of public debate, from 15 to 22 october, on a new sustainable growth, mr cofferati. it's the spirit of krakow that will continue to blow. i would therefore like to thank you and mr malcolm harbour for your support of all these initiatives, your uncompromising, vigilant but also very constructive support to help us make the internal market work better.
in writing. – the single market celebrated its 20th anniversary this year. an important aspect of completing the single market, the services directive, was adopted in 2006 and was supposed to be fully in place by the end of 2009. according to the commission’s assessment, full implementation of the services directive would increase eu gdp by 2.6 %, and in some of the countries most affected by the crisis national gdp could increase by up to 2.2 %. i do believe that such an increase would be highly desirable in order to overcome current problems. implementing fully the single market and services directive would not only boost the economy and increase gdp, but would also mean considerable savings on administrative burdens and bureaucracy, amounting to up to eur 40 billion. new fiscal discipline rules will be instrumental in ensuring fiscal stability in the future, but we also need to force member states to finally and unconditionally implement the services directive and by that to complete the single market. launching infringement procedures should be routine when handling cases where whatever eu legislation is not implemented in the foreseen time and form. as the average infringement procedure takes up to 25.5 months, i would urge the ec to speed up their processing in order to ensure a real effect in due time!
in writing. − president, i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in tibet. during the three years of this mandate we have adopted three urgency resolutions relating to the human rights situation in tibet, yet the debate on tuesday was the first debate with a statement by the high representative. i consider it a step forward in addressing the human rights crisis in tibet that we have been witnessing over decades and decades. i also urge the high representative to appoint a special coordinator on tibet as outlined in the resolution. the policies of the peoples' republic of china impact the economy, environment, society, demographics, culture and religion in tibet, while also bearing consequences to the neighbouring countries. by appointing a special coordination on tibet the eu would be better able to give the region the attention that it deserves. i am very disappointed that the high representative disregarded the main points of the resolution in her statement, which was simply feeble in comparison with the position of the european parliament.
in writing. − i supported the resolution on a job-rich recovery, considering it important to focus on the substantive fulfilment of the employment objectives set out in the eu 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. reducing the very high level of youth unemployment is a key issue for the sustainability of the european economy. to do that, we need to bring our education system up to speed. i am pleased that our group has tabled a number of amendments which have found support, such as amendments nos 2 and 4, which focus on tackling youth unemployment and make good recommendations to that end. the resolution reflects well the current political direction of the european union to contribute to the development of quality employment and to implement the necessary austerity measures, which does not mean deliberate cuts but a reduction in irrational spending. in view of the above, i did not of course support the populist amendments of the left, led by amendment no 12 on § 1, which does not support the implementation of austerity measures at all and merely criticises the efforts made so far. the key to the recovery of the european economy is not black and white, as extremist political forces suggest, but a complex issue that must be addressed by taking into account the different stakeholders.
author. − mr president, although over the past years political violence has decreased in the philippines, the murders of four journalists and a witness of the maguindanao massacre have alarmed us, so we are calling for further action to combat impunity for extra-judicial killings and enforced disappearances. president aquino has expressed his commitment to human rights, good governance and the fight against corruption, and his administration has made commendable improvements. to keep up the progress i encourage him and the government of the philippines to take measures to protect the people involved in ongoing investigations and trials, as well as journalists and human rights defenders. the culprits responsible for past extrajudicial killings, enforced disappearances and torture must be brought promptly to justice, especially those involved in the maguindanao massacre, where altogether 58 people perished.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the violations of the rights of minorities in iran come by no means as a surprise, as the devastating human rights situation in the country has been reported and debated in this parliament a number of times. we are calling upon the authorities to eliminate all forms of discrimination and urging them to allow freedom of association and religion, while freeing all peaceful minority activists from prison. unfortunately, we already know that our resolution will be disregarded, just as others have been for a number of years. instead, i would encourage the eu to engage in dialogue and cooperation with opposition groups in iran and abroad, and help them in their work towards overthrowing the current fundamentalist regime. the change in iran will probably come from within the country, but we should use the opportunity of empowering democratically-minded iranians to speed up the process.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the first railway package has now been more than 10 years in the making and in the implementation. the first railway package directive was adopted in 2001 and contained three directives on the development of community railways, the licensing of railway undertakings and the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity, the charging of infrastructure charges and the granting of safety certificates. the aim was to take the first step in the revival of the railway sector by creating a single european rail network and to ensure the necessary sound financial structure. the first railway package directives were to be transposed into national law on 15 march 2003, but the commission delayed the initiation of infringement proceedings against member states for incorrect or incomplete implementation of the first railway package until june 2008. infringement proceedings were opened against 22 member states, which shows that the creation of a single european railway area is still a long way off. one of the key issues that will hopefully be addressed by the current package is the issue of access and user charges in terms of infrastructure. in this context, article 32 of the council and parliament's common position is relevant for estonia, which allows member states with different track gauges and transporting goods from third countries to impose higher infrastructure charges. this allows member states to be exempted from the obligation to subsidize the transport of goods from third countries. the second important point is the opening up of the market in that different operators are given the opportunity to enter the markets of different member states and must be guaranteed equal treatment in terms of both infrastructure charges and times as well as access to the services they want. thank you!
the purpose of my visit to washington last week was to meet with representatives of both parties in both the house and the senate to discuss the magnitsky act. as we know, in the united states, the foreign affairs committees of both the senate and the house of commons have voted in favour of this bill, and what is particularly important is that next week we will also begin to discuss a similar bill here in the foreign affairs committee of the european parliament, the so-called magnitsky bill. the proposal is very similar to what is currently being done in the united states, in other words, to impose sanctions on those russian high-ranking officials who are involved in corruption, human rights abuses or organised crime, such as the members of the klujev group, who are still moving freely around our territory in the european union or elsewhere and using corrupt money.
in writing. − i supported the rapid amendment of directive 2009/138/ec, which extended the transposition deadline to ensure a smooth transition to the new regime and to avoid a legal vacuum. the amendment of the directive is also important in the light of the european commission's proposal of 19 january to take into account in the legislative work the creation of a new system of supervision of insurance european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) on 1 january 2011. i consider it perfectly reasonable that solvency ii, the modern risk-based system for the regulation and supervision of insurance and reinsurance undertakings in europe, should only be launched on 1 january 2014 in order to ensure high quality legislation and its implementation. the new rules are an important step towards ensuring a strong and secure insurance sector that can offer sustainable insurance products and support the real economy through long-term investment and added stability.
in writing. - i supported the adoption of the first railway package, as agreed in the trilogues between the council, the commission and parliament, as re-formulated in today's vote. it is good to see that concrete steps are finally being taken to implement legislation adopted more than 10 years ago. unfortunately, to date not all the directives of the first railway package have been transposed into the law of many member states, although this should have been done by 15 march 2003. the commission delayed the initiation of infringement proceedings against member states for incorrect or incomplete implementation of the first railway package until june 2008. infringement proceedings were opened against 22 member states, which shows that the creation of a single european railway area is still a long way off. a free and accessible transport market is one of the most important pillars of the european internal market. the free movement of goods and people must be ensured, and it is particularly important to ensure this through a more environmentally friendly mode of transport. increasing railway user activity can only be achieved through the establishment and development of a common infrastructure and a common set of rules. i am therefore pleased to note that the adoption of this report was supported by a large majority of members, including myself.
in writing. − the european union has introduced a regulation on harmonised maximum daily and weekly driving times and minimum daily and weekly rest periods for truck drivers. these rules apply to all drivers who carry goods in vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes and to drivers who carry passengers in vehicles with 9 seats or more. in addition, there are directives governing the controls carried out by the member states and the use of tachographs and digital tachographs. the amendments to this regulation are due to the frequent breaches of social legislation and the inefficiency of the tachograph system. i support in principle both the commission's proposal to improve the efficiency of this regulation and most of the rapporteur's amendments, including the fact that i think it is right that vehicles whose main activity is not transport and whose range of operation does not exceed 100 km from the place where his company is established should not be covered by this regulation. that is why i did not vote against this regulation. unfortunately, i could not support this regulation and remained neutral, as the scope of the regulation was extended from the current maximum weight of 3,5 tonnes to 2,8 tonnes, which is not justified in the current market situation. i also believe that member states could still allow the radius of the area of activity to be extended to 150 km instead of the 100 km proposed by the commission, but unfortunately this has not been supported by the house. thank you!
in writing. − ecall aims to provide automatic notification of emergency services in the event of an accident from inside the vehicle, in order to reduce the number of road deaths and the severity of road injuries. ecall shall expedite the arrival of qualified and adequately equipped assistance. the implementation of ecall technology shall be mandatory and accessible to all drivers in the european union. in particular, it is important that cars imported into europe from third countries must be equipped with ecall technology. ecall technology shall be installed in all new cars. ecall technology shall be based on the 112 emergency number and shall be mandatory and free of charge for all. parliament calls on the european commission to draw up a directive by the end of 2012 on the implementation of ecall. in order to reduce the problems associated with the deployment of ecall, the committee on transport and tourism and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, in cooperation with the european commission, asked member states to design and implement national pilot programmes for the use of the european in-vehicle automated emergency call system (ecall) to address any problems that might arise. the necessary infrastructure for ecall technology must also be established and the necessary training provided to telephone operators to prepare for the mandatory introduction of the system in all member states by 2015. on the basis of the above, i supported the adoption of this report.
in writing. − i consider it extremely important to develop trade between the european union and the eastern partnership countries. the latter are home to some 75 million people, which is why i also supported the proposals in this report. the creation of free trade areas would certainly be an effective tool for developing long-term economic relations. the gradual removal of barriers to trade will increase economic integration and help to harmonise the regulatory framework in areas affecting trade in goods and services. economic integration between the european union and the eastern partnership countries is also an important stimulus for democratic reform in these countries. cooperation with the eastern partnership countries is of great importance to europe, both economically and politically.
mr president, it would be a shame if parliament were to approve a substandard agreement. the rapporteur has rightfully pointed out that it is not in our capacity to guarantee that the vague language of acta will not be used at some point for the wrong purposes. civil society has mobilised against acta on a remarkable scale and has voiced concerns that the adoption of the agreement may potentially limit civil liberties. the commission, as well as the member states, have failed to rebut those concerns and it cannot be denied that the text of the agreement is open to uncharitable interpretation. with those considerations in mind, it would be absolutely irresponsible to give a green light to acta as it stands. parliament should not adopt an agreement that might undermine the rights and freedoms of our citizens.
in writing. i decided to vote against the conclusion of the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) as my colleagues did, because the trade agreement puts copyright above the right to privacy, and as a liberal i cannot accept that. in reaching my decision, i also took as a basis the negative assessment of the five relevant committees of the european parliament. the main contradictions cited in the opinions of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, the committee on legal affairs and the committee on development and the committee on industry, research and energy are: - acta gives the authorities broad powers to control the internet under the guise of preventing piracy; - it creates the conditions for surveillance without judicial supervision and, in the event of mere suspicion, for the transfer of sensitive personal data to the copyright holder; - several terms of legal significance are not open to interpretation by arbitrary interests of the moment; - there is a risk of leaking of trade secrets, since the agreement does not guarantee any confidentiality of the information contained in it; - the objective of preventing access to the market for counterfeit medicines has not been achieved, but rather the agreement prevents the availability of cheap generic medicines; - and, of course, the confidentiality of the terms of the agreements. the commission, in supporting acta, affirms that it will protect european jobs, innovation, boost growth, fight crime and prevent the entry of dangerous counterfeit medicines. these are commendable objectives, but there are serious shortcomings in the technical formulation of the contract. the fact that the question of a possible infringement of citizens' rights has been referred to the court of justice does not relieve us of our obligation to deal with the agreement here and now. there are other issues in the agreement, such as the lack of definitions of terms, provisions that allow for different interpretations, etc.
on behalf of the s&d group. i fully support all the amendments tabled by the rapporteur and i particularly welcome the amendments that allow the new member states to apply additional national payments in 2013. without these support possibilities, for example in estonia in 2013, our direct payments would have fallen by around 20%, which would be very difficult to overcome. on the other hand, finding a sensible compromise in the treatment of this report is certainly a good ray of light, a good start for all subsequent discussions concerning the much more difficult period 2014 2020. this gives optimism to all baltic farmers that in this house it is possible to find good compromises in planning the new agricultural policy.
mr president, let me wish the president-in-office, mr cristofias, insight in fulfilling the priorities of the cyprus presidency, which include enhancing relations with the neighbours of the european union. i hope that the close ties between cyprus and russia will not become an obstacle to addressing the deterioration of human rights and the rule of law just across the border from the european union. as a rapporteur on the proposal for a recommendation to the council on establishing common visa restrictions for russian officials involved in the sergei magnitsky case, i would like to call on the cyprus presidency to take our recommendation aboard and engage in combating corruption and impunity in russia. good neighbourly relations should not be based on discreet and submissive silence when witnessing such serious breaches of domestic and international law. you have the opportunity of engaging in frank and constructive dialogue with the kremlin and emphasise the paramount importance of human rights and the rule of law in relations with the european union.
mr president, for me cyprus is the embodiment of a historic and cultural miracle. assyrians, egyptians, persians, romans, phoenicians, turks and british have dominated the island, yet cypriots have survived and retained not only their identity but also openness, friendliness and creativity. at the start of this historic presidency it is good to remember president barroso’s words: we can only succeed together; not blaming each other but concnetrating on our common tasks. one of the first tasks of the cyprus presidency should be rebuilding the trust between the european parliament and the council. just recently parliament has been excluded from the decision-making on schengen. last week the council sought to unilaterally change vital aspects of the european patents system. how can we credibly speak about the need for ‘more europe’ if one of the institutions seeks to rock the institutional balance? your second task is to complete the european single market. it will become 20 years old soon; old enough not to need any more custodians and limitations by nation-state godfathers and godmothers. i call on the cyprus presidency not just to continue with the deepening of the single market but to come forward with a concrete programme for completing the single market with a binding calendar to remove all the remaining obstacles. we must also not only promote the digital single market but use it as a key to unlock europe’s growth and employment potential. lastly i would remind us all that it is an abnormal situation to have troops of a candidate country on the territory of a presidency country. our common task and common responsibility must be to end this situation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report consenting to the preservation of commitments on trade in services contained in the current eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement. with its accession to the world trade organisation, russia has made a commitment to reduce market access restrictions in many areas and put an end to favouring national companies over foreign companies. on the one hand i would like to see prompt and effective implementation of those reforms, yet on the other hand i would hope that successful liberalisation of the economy spills over into liberalisation of society. improving the access of european companies to the russian market will hopefully pave the way to european business culture.
in writing. − i welcome the agreement on trade with spare parts for cars. anyone who has experience with russian cars, knows well that they demand spare parts all the time. i do hope that in the context of this agreement, russian military people will understand that "mistral" ships provided to them by the french government, are actually meant for delivering spare parts to the customers, if needed - quickly by helicopters, not for creating tensions with russia's neighbours on the black sea or the baltic sea.
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement, which follows russia's accession to the wto. the community has undertaken to progressively reduce or even abolish the export duties it currently applies to a list of raw materials. however, raw materials not included in this list may be subject to further restrictions. the report therefore provides for an additional list, thus encouraging the establishment of more balanced trade conditions between the european union and russia as regards the supply of raw materials.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report that covers raw materials, which are not listed in the schedule of concessions and commitments on goods in connection with russia’s accession to the world trade organisation. nevertheless, it should be noted that this agreement is only intended to serve as a temporary measure before the conclusion of the new eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement. the future agreement should include an extensive and watertight chapter on trade in raw materials. explicit treaties, just like strong fences, make good neighbours.
in writing. - i voted against the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement today, and for a number of reasons. first, no additional and serious efforts were made to consult all stakeholders in depth and to take their views into account before the acta negotiations. moreover, a practice which does not respect the high standards of transparency and good governance which are inherent in the european union cannot be supported. secondly, it does not comply with the principle of legal clarity, since it leaves a wide margin of interpretation, which means that the terms of the agreement may vary considerably from one country to another. however, the treaty is still too restrictive in some respects. thirdly, internet access is a fundamental right and the internet service provider should not have control over the internet. internet freedom must be guaranteed and i certainly do not support the collection and storage of customer data and behaviour by an internet service provider. i am against all forms of piracy and theft of intellectual property and i admit that there are a lot of problems with this today, but unfortunately this agreement is not going to improve the situation, it is going to make it worse. thank you!
in writing. − i voted in favour of this very important report. i especially welcome that one of the amendments, tabled by my group, the epp, ensures that a transitional mechanism is established for 2013 making the direct payments comply with regulation no 73/2009, a framework of eu direct payments and complementary national direct payments to be applicable in the new member states. the latter has led to the consequence that, during the last years from 2009 until 2011, total receipts of direct payments for farmers in several new member states in all farming sectors have reached the levels of direct payments received by farmers in the member states applying the historical single payment scheme (sps). to avoid market distortions created due to the different manner of implementation of recent cap reforms in different member states, it is necessary to provide the possibility to the new member states to grant transitional national support in 2013, while direct payments will be introduced uniformly in all member states. in order to provide a smooth transition from the current to the reformed and uniformly implemented direct payment system it is crucial to have a transitional mechanism for 2013.
in writing. − i supported this regulation, which gives the member states of the 2004 european union the possibility to increase direct payments to agriculture on a voluntary basis. the increase in the net ceiling gives the member states which have subsequently acceded a voluntary opportunity to improve the competitiveness of their agricultural sector. the most important thing, however, is to harmonise direct payments to farmers in the eu, i.e. to end discrimination against farmers in north-eastern and eastern europe. the harmonisation of direct payments is not within the scope of this regulation, but it is nevertheless a positive step which will enable the new member states to reduce the large gap with western european producers by bringing farmers on an equal footing.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. i firmly believe that every living being deserves dignified treatment. i welcome that this report also clearly acknowledges the link between animal health, animal well-being and human health. further, it is very important to underline the need to enforce the implementation of existing eu legislation on animal welfare in the member states. eu directives are meant to be implemented, and that without delay. thirdly, it is equally important to anchor the aspect of animal welfare also in our trade policies. in order to ensure fair competition, and in general animal welfare outside the eu too, we have to oblige third countries to comply with the eu standards in this matter.
in writing. - freedom of movement is a fundamental freedom of our citizens. access to basic banking services is therefore of paramount importance. the biggest problem is that banks are leaving consumers with a lower economic interest, or lower income, without many product options. the smooth functioning of the internal market is also hampered by the lack of confidence of banks in persons who are not resident in the member state in which the account is to be opened. notwithstanding the foregoing, it should be borne in mind that every consumer has the right not to hold a payment account and a basic payment account and to settle in cash, and that those persons should not be discriminated against. i do not agree with the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection that the use of cash is always more costly for consumers. on the contrary, different providers have to pay banks a rather high service fee for card payments (this also applies in my home country, estonia), so this is also reflected in the price and makes it more expensive to pay by card or bank transfer. it is important to strengthen supervision of financial services so that banks do not engage in so-called excessive profiteering, thereby impeding economic development or increasing the share of the shadow economy. europe needs a socially responsible banking sector. i supported the report.
mr president, elections are a challenging time in any democratic country, therefore i share the view of some of my colleagues of not understanding why we have this debate on the agenda at all. however, truly free and fair elections are not only about respecting provisions and the spirit of the electoral process and results, but also about honest competition and avoiding hate speech. we strongly hope that all political forces in georgia will refrain from taking politics to the streets, which might lead to violent clashes. moreover, the russian army will be conducting military exercises in the region and, at the time of the elections, a part of the country is still occupied by russian troops. georgia is a young democracy that needs support in her aspirations to integrate further with the european and transatlantic institutions. we need to help the government to continue to carry out reforms. by reassuring georgia about her prospects, we contribute to the consolidation of democracy and to a stable and reliable partnership with the european union.
mr president, the october elections will certainly be a test case for georgia’s democratic progress. in a way, they will also be a test of eu policies on georgia. now that georgia has really moved close to the eu, it would be naive to expect that there would be no outside influence trying to turn georgia back from the european road. the emergence of new populist and nationalist forces is a cause of legitimate concern. their leader, mr ivanishvili, just happens to be the largest individual shareholder in both lukoil and gazprom. i think no further recommendation is needed in order to know whose side he is on. what the eu could do is to insist upon the moscow agreement and insist that eu monitors be allowed to monitor the occupied territories. this would demonstrate the union’s credibility in the region.
mr president, i would like to welcome the outcome of the meeting of the action group for syria and its support for the kofi annan peace plan. a disastrous civil war, which will affect the whole region, is not an alternative to diplomacy. i hope that all the members of the action group dedicate their efforts to implementing the final communiqué. the fighting parties must stop all violence so that negotiations about the future of the people of syria can start. the syrian opposition parties must have a mutual understanding and a sense of responsibility towards the syrian people in order to be able to start the process of forming a transitional government. i therefore encourage the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and the european external action service to insist that all syrian opposition movements, representing the various religious, ethnic and political groups, are invited to the negotiations so that a sustainable regime transition can take place.
in writing. – the action group for syria is committed to ensuring full implementation of the six-point plan and security council resolutions 2042 and 2043. however, the key to breakthrough is russia. the eu should ask russia to unconditionally halt any arms export to syria. it is unacceptable in principle that a strategic partner of the eu continues to block any serious action towards a peaceful settlement and continues exporting arms to a regime that has been systematically murdering its own citizens for more than one year. it is ironic that russia claims to accept only peaceful international intervention, whereas it uses brutal force in chechnya and against peaceful manifestations of internal opposition. may i add a piece of practical advice? the eu could strengthen its position on syria if it first made mr putin honour fully the august 2008 agreement on georgia by insisting that there will be no further progress in mutual relations until moscow admits eu observers to the occupied georgian territories. instead of timidly begging mr putin for almost four years to comply with his own commitments the eu has more than enough power to say: no further progress until you behave according to international law.
mr president, the recent rio+20 conference aimed to renew global political commitment to sustainable development, but failed. the agreement titled ‘the future we want’ is an assemblage of vague statements that commit the parties to close to nothing. the document addresses a vast range of issues from eradication of poverty to paving the way to a green economy as well as recognising, noting and acknowledging the problems that the world is facing, but it lacks a credible and concrete road map towards achieving any of those goals. the failure of world leaders to progress to sustainable development calls for civil society around the world to step in. the deadlock can be broken by raising awareness, changing individual consumption patterns, encouraging activism and putting further pressure on governments as well as multinational corporations to dedicate their efforts to creating green and equitable economies.
in writing. − i supported the proposal of the court of justice to amend its statute, given the high increase in the court's workload and the need to improve its organisation of work in order to increase the number of cases decided. despite the court's efforts, with more cases being decided each year, the number of pending cases continues to increase. the latter, however, is largely due to the enlargement of the european union and the greater integration of the member states, which give rise to various controversies. in order to be able to cope with the increase in the volume of work of the court, an increase in the number of judges is indispensable. i also acknowledge the court's past work in the area of speeding up the handling of cases, for example by amending its rules of procedure to allow cases in the field of intellectual property to be decided by oral procedure.
in writing. − i supported the decision to amend this regulation in order to accelerate the development of european infrastructure in line with the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the creation of a connecting europe facility and the use of a project debt financing instrument issued by private project companies with eu/eip support would significantly reduce investor risk and facilitate the flow of private capital into priority infrastructure investments. it is important that when different projects are initiated, not too many additional criteria and implementing measures should be set, but rather greater flexibility for the development of new markets. i am convinced that greater involvement of the private sector would significantly accelerate infrastructure development, thereby reducing unemployment and increasing economic growth.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of adopting the report on financial assistance in the field of trans-european transport and energy networks, more specifically project bonds. it is recognised that the development of modern and efficient infrastructure is essential to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to reduce unemployment, thus ensuring the completion of a single and efficient internal market. the investment needed in transport, energy and information and communication technologies over the next 10 years is approximately eur 1500 billion. the involvement of private resources is essential to achieve the above levels of investment and i am pleased to say that this report is helping to do so. in addition to making investments more attractive, this report will help to enhance private-public cooperation. it is worth noting here that in future it will be possible to combine eu support and national funds, as well as the european investment bank and private sector funds, to finance projects. the impact of this report is important for crossborder projects, which may not be of such importance for an individual member state, but which nevertheless have significant added value for europe. in view of the above, i was happy to support this report. thank you!
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the situation of the lgbt people in africa is increasingly distressing, with anti-homosexual legislation being considered or applied, as well as the ongoing violence and discrimination. in fact, the negative stance of many african governments towards the rights of sexual minorities has incited further extrajudicial violence and fostered a sense of impunity. women in particular fall victim to ‘corrective rape’ and murder. the european union should counter it by applying conditionality in its relations with such counties, in particular with regard to development aid. the european external action service should make further efforts to mainstream our fight against homophobia. decriminalisation of homosexuality, stopping violence and discrimination and protecting lgbt activists must be emphasised within dialogues with the african countries concerned.
in writing. – the case of andrzej poczobut is an example of systematic harassment of journalists and pro-democracy activists in belarus. many similar cases have been referred to in our resolution. the eu has taken decisive action against lukashenka's regime by applying targeted sanctions and he cannot expect any concessions in relations with the european union, unless the regime loosens the grip around free media, minorities and human rights defenders. we call the council to consider expanding the blacklist of belarusians, as there appear to be more people responsible for human rights violations linked to lukashenka's regime. to help along the democratisation of belarus we should now also reinforce our commitment to assist the civil society in their struggle that there would be more brave people like andrzej poczobut. lukashenka cannot possibly arrest the whole country.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the abduction of feng jianmei and her subjection to forced abortion was a gross violation of her human rights. in addition to the investigation of the case of feng jianmei, carried out by the municipal government of ankang, the chinese authorities should investigate the full scale of forced abortions and sterilisations across the country. china’s one-child policy has also led to illegal and sex-selective abortions, which discredits the measures that have been taken to implement the policy. the public outrage that followed the disclosure of the fate of feng jianmei should be directed at reviewing and modernising the one-child policy. family planning ought to be based on personal choice everywhere in the world. china should invest more in sex education and promote the use of contraceptives.
the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. - ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the sulphur content of marine fuels has a significant impact not only on europe's environment and air quality, but also on the transport sector. secondary particulate matter from sulphur and nitrogen oxides from ship-source air pollution is estimated to cause up to 50 000 premature deaths per year in europe. in the light of the above, and in the light of the agreement on the table today, it must be said that the objectives set were still largely unfulfilled. the establishment of equal limits covering all european seas is necessary to ensure clean air not only for the people of northern europe but also for other european coastal areas. it is also important to ensure fair and equal competition in the transport sector and to avoid unequal treatment of shipping companies operating in different regions. the european commission and the member states should follow the example of the usa and canada, which jointly established a 200-nautical-mile sulphur control zone along their entire coastline, and set firm deadlines for the establishment of a european-wide emission control area. while i am critical of the agreement between the council and parliament, i support the adoption of this report, as the current deadlock since 2008 must be ended and a clear signal given for the future. and finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs satu hass, and all the other colleagues. - thank you. - thank you.
in writing. - i decided to remain neutral in the vote on this report because i consider it unfair that the baltic sea has stricter limits on sulphur emissions than, for example, the mediterranean and the black sea. despite the fact that the international maritime organisation (imo) already agreed in 2008 to establish maximum sulphur levels for marine fuels, which will apply even without this directive, i nevertheless consider it necessary to clarify and harmonise the implementation of the imo maximum levels and their monitoring in eu areas. however, excessive environmental standards may reduce the competitiveness of european shipping and increase the share of road transport. the latter scenario would be known to be much more harmful to our environment, as maritime transport can carry much more goods and passengers than road or rail, maritime roads have no traffic congestion and require little money or natural resources (except for waterway signage, maritime surveillance) to maintain them. however, in order to ensure the development of european shipping, it is essential to simplify the granting of state aid for the necessary environmental investments.
in writing. − secondary particulate matter from sulphur and nitrogen oxides from air pollution from ships causes up to 50 000 premature deaths a year in europe. in view of the above, and in view of the agreement on the table today, it must be said that the objectives set were substantially missed. the establishment of equal limits covering all european seas is necessary to ensure clean air not only for the people of northern europe but also for other european coastal areas. it is also important to ensure fair and equal competition in the transport sector and to avoid unequal treatment of shipping companies operating in different regions. the european commission and the member states should follow the example of the usa and canada, which jointly established a 200-nautical-mile sulphur control zone along their entire coastline, and set firm deadlines for the establishment of a european-wide emission control zone. although i am critical of the agreement between the council and parliament, i supported the adoption of this report, as the current impasse since 2008 must be ended and a clear signal given to all parties for the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution. although it enhances all the main relevant issues that the ec needs to take into account for its work programme, i regret that some concrete measures proposed by my group, the epp, were not included in the final document. a binding calendar for implementing the remaining legislation regarding single market is essential. clear deadlines and, should they be breached, fast-track infringement procedures should motivate member states to finally comply with the eu legislation needed to fully integrate the single market. this means full enforcement and the removal of any remaining obstacles to the free circulation of goods, services, persons and capital. our rhetoric must be imperative: obligations and commitments have to be fulfilled. secondly, the future of research and innovation has been left out. the future horizon 2020 is crucial for generating a knowledge-based economy and society that can compete in the global arena. in this regard, widening the participation of industry should be a priority. also, there must be serious efforts to bridge the gap in the field of r&i between newer and older member states to avoid larger divides than those that already exist at present.
in writing. − i supported this report, considering it important to pay more attention to the phenomena of gender inequality, especially in the service sector. a total of 83.1% of women in employment are employed in the service sector, receiving significantly less pay than men or working part-time, often because of circumstances. unfortunately, the increase in women's education has not been accompanied by sufficient increases in the number of women in the workforce, nor has it improved their employment conditions, their skills and knowledge are undervalued, despite the fact that on average 60% of university graduates are women, in my country even 70%. i therefore believe that it is important to implement measures to promote the reconciliation of private, family and working life more effectively than before. it is unthinkable to achieve this goal without the active participation of men in achieving a work-life balance. the benefits of family-friendly employment policies and the sharing of unpaid work and household responsibilities are shared by both men and women.
madam president, i would like to make a couple of comments on the report, on the part concerning asia. first, the report calls for elimination of the inconsistencies between member state and european union priorities as regards the human rights in china. i trust in the staunch belief of all parties in the inviolability of human rights and expect them to vigorously address the situation in tibet and east turkestan, and that of the human rights activists in the people’s republic of china at, meetings with their beijing counterparts. second, taiwan has made serious efforts to maintain peace and stability in the asia/pacific region and i hope that the eu will support the east china sea peace initiative which encourages peaceful and cooperative solutions to the disputes between japan, taiwan and mainland china. i also regret that this report does not touch on the russian federation’s obligations to withdraw from the georgia-occupied territories of abkhazia and south ossetia and i believe that the high representative will keep that in her sights.
in writing. – the eu needs to become more vocal, more visible and act as global leader rather than silent donor. this report provides concrete aspects on how to make the cfsp more efficient, better coordinated and focused and i advise the hr/vp to make full use of these suggestions. i underline the importance of eu-us relations as cornerstone of eu foreign policy and our priority partnership on the global arena. the eu has to step up its efforts in deepening the relations both in rhetoric and also in concrete actions, especially in the light of forthcoming presidential elections. relations with russia have to be strictly conditional. the eu must demand from russia to fully respect human rights and the rule of law based on international treaties and its international commitments. the new eu-russia agreement has to be based on concrete achievements and not hurry into a solely economic agreement forgetting human rights and civil liberties. the eu has to strictly condemn the current politically motivated court cases and demand this practice to stop immediately. i welcome the rapporteur’s amendments calling for stronger eu involvement in finding solutions to ‘frozen’ conflicts, especially the russian occupied south-ossetia and abkhazia territories and calling for russia to respect the territorial and constitutional integrity of its regional neighbours.
in writing. – the common foreign and security policy has been both criticised and heralded as a meagre or great achievement of the eu. at this stage we can observe and wait for the cfsp to prove its worth in practice. at the same time we can witness the already generic rhetoric of the need for the eu to talk with a single voice. there is an imbalance between theory and practice, obviously. the most poignant example came from france in the shape of a mistral warship – which was sold to russia. ceterum censeo, france has decided to sell a mistral-class warship to russia; we believe that it will sincerely regret its action.
in writing. – i agree with the president of the alde group, guy verhofstadt that the prolonged hesitation of the international community to take action is scandalous. it has already cost the lives of far too many syrian people and unless the violence is brought to an end the death toll may exceed that in libya. it is just tragic that the blocking members of the un security council will have the blood of many syrians on their hands now as well. yet the reluctance of the member states to make further efforts to end the conflict in the immediate neighbourhood is also difficult to understand, since tensions in this region bear direct consequences for the european union. the middle east is a powder keg that will do much better without the naked flame in syria. i encourage the high representative to call the member states to support and provide means for establishing a no-fly zone over syria and taking further measures to end the massacre in the country.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, during the last exchange we had in this house in february on the conduct of the duma and presidential elections in russia, we shared our concerns about the irregularities and violations of the electoral process and about the violence against demonstrators and their detention. at the same time, we welcomed the political awakening of russian civil society. we saw russian civil society ready to engage in dialogue with the government and to play an active role in the development of political institutions in the country. we saw some signs of cautious but real dialogue between government and citizens emerging. we had been encouraging the then newly-elected president putin to pursue the political and economic reforms that were started by president medvedev. we also offered our support in working on our shared modernisation agenda. there have been some important developments in that respect. first and foremost, let me mention russia’s accession to the world trade organisation on 22 august. by joining the wto, russia took a major step forward in its ongoing integration into the international rules-based trade system. we strongly supported that process and now expect russia to fully implement all the related agreements, so as to reap the maximum benefit of membership of the world trade organisation. there had been some encouraging initial steps in the spring towards further development of russia’s democratic institutions, notably the easing of party registration rules and requirements for presidential candidates, as well as direct elections of regional governors. however, these have been the only positive political reforms this year so far. to allow for a truly pluralistic parliamentary system, without undue obstacles to the work of a viable opposition, much more needs to be done. upon president putin’s return to the kremlin, we encouraged him to engage in a constructive dialogue with citizens and civil society to find the best way forward and ensure a good future for russia. since may, however, we have been seeing less and less dialogue and openness on the side of the authorities, and rather more intolerance of any expression of dissenting views. instead of stronger safeguards for the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms, we have seen a string of measures that chip away at them. at least four major pieces of new legislation went through the duma at unusual – some would say unconstitutional – speed, before the summer recess. their common aim seems to have been to further reduce the available space for independent civil and political activity in the country. immediately after the inauguration of the new president on 7 may, a number of opposition leaders and activists who organised and participated in the 6 may demonstrations were arrested and fined. many face serious criminal charges. soon after, on 8 june, president putin signed into law restrictive amendments effectively limiting the scope for demonstrations. i reacted to these developments with a public statement. i stressed that the government should, including via legislation, guarantee freedom of assembly for citizens. i also cautioned that strong measures to curtail this right were likely to prove counterproductive. a few weeks later another law was passed forcing russian ngos receiving foreign funding to present themselves as ‘foreign agents’ in all their activities. given the history of such a term, foreign funding is thus considered by law to turn its recipients into ‘spies’. i reiterated my serious concerns over these developments as well as the overall worsening situation for civil society in russia. grassroots civil society movements, be it human rights ngos or election monitoring organisations such as golos, are important components of democratic society. they do an essential job in russia today and they are key to russia’s modernisation. in the interests of russia, they should be allowed to work freely and have the means to do it. we have supported some ngos in their activities and will continue to offer our support to their contribution to the modernisation of russia. we do so because the european union has a strong interest in a stable, prosperous and democratic russia. we have been offering our support to those in russia who share this goal. but by doing it, we neither impose our objectives on these russian organisations, nor do we aim in any way to control their activities. in no way do these russian organisations become our, or anybody else’s, agents; let me state this very clearly. all russian ngos i know would undoubtedly prefer to receive russian funding, but there is barely any public funding available for activities that could potentially be perceived as being critical of the authorities, nor do many businessmen dare to offer support. i will not go into the details now of the laws on libel and internet freedom. the key issue is how they will be interpreted and applied. we will pay attention to that. as honourable members know, most recently, on 17 august, three young women, members of the punk band ‘pussy riot’, were sentenced to two years in prison each for a peaceful, less-than-one-minute long performance. we all understand that this provocative stunt in the christ-the-saviour cathedral hurt religious feelings. but it was a non-violent expression of political opinion. under russian law, it should have been sanctioned as a minor offence, not as a serious crime. on the same day, i issued a statement to express my deep disappointment with the disproportionate sentence and recalled russia’s commitments to respect its obligations to ensure fair, transparent and independent legal process. serious irregularities in the trial have been reported, including the conditions of pre-trial detention. taken together, the package of legislation limiting the freedom of assembly, restricting ngos, curtailing the freedom of the internet, the pussy riot case, an upsurge in prosecution of activists, including alexey navalny, and the sentencing of mrs osipova, the dismissal of an opposition-minded duma deputy and a continued lack of progress on the magnitsky case, constitute a trend of great concern to us. this trend raises serious questions on the state of the rule of law and, in particular, the use of legal and law enforcement structures and other instruments for political purposes, which should be used to safeguard and protect the rights and freedoms of the citizens of russia. in conclusion, i would like to stress again the importance of having an economically successful, modern, and democratic russia at the border of the european union. russia is sometimes a challenging neighbour, but it remains an important partner of the european union on many issues and in many fields. we remain ready to work with russia in all the positive reform efforts, to work closely together on the partnership for modernisation, the integration of the international rules-based system, and the development of citizens’ rights and freedoms: that has to be the basis for stability and prosperity. we will continue to work closely with the government and ministries on these goals but we should not shy away from our responsibilities as a partner to express our concerns with recent developments. we worry that the government sets the country on the wrong path and wastes an opportunity for effective modernisation. i would like to thank the european parliament for working continuously and consistently with me and the eeas services on both these strands. let me take my opportunity to express my gratitude to parliament, in particular, for your strong support for civil society cooperation between the eu and russia, including of course in financial terms.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, russian civil society knows that it can count on our moral support. this is reflected in the series of resolutions. but are words enough to protect democratic development in russia? the fate of politkovskaya, khodorkovsky and magnitsky is a clear example of the failure of the russian authorities to deliver on their promises to build a state based on the rule of law. now we are faced with a dilemma. should the same strategy be followed by increasing the number of verbal approaches? shouldn't we be able to put our thoughts into action? we are shocked by the fate of three young political activists, the pussy riot group, which represents the desire for political freedom of the new russian generation. the state response was in continuity with all the previous draconian measures against real political activities that are not convenient for the kremlin. in front of russian civil society, in front of the new generation of russians, we must live the moments of truth. words are not enough. we need a gesture, an act of proof of our commitment to all those who aspire to freedom in russia. we need a law to encourage the building of the rule of law. the magnitsky act is designed as a well-targeted response against all those guilty of human rights abuses, against the corrupt. this is a gesture of solidarity with russian civil society. there's no time to waste. we have to act now. support the magnitsky act! support freedom for russia!
mr president, ms ashton, i have been encouraged by your clear message in this sad situation. since mr putin started his third presidential term, the human rights situation has deteriorated markedly, and russia is heading away from the rule of law. now the question remains: what must be done? unless we continue to express our disappointment, we do not really help russian civil society or our friends there, about whom we are concerned. i think that it is time to set a threshold, with a warning that if russia continues so blatantly to ignore its own commitments, there can be no further progress in our relations. the first and perfectly justified step is to establish a new eu common list of russian officials responsible for the death of sergei magnitsky, and to deny them entry visas. this could be followed by similar restrictive measures towards other civil servants and politicians responsible for concrete acts of political repression. only then, i think, will things begin to change. it is up to us to act or just to react.
in writing. i support the question put to the european commission by my colleagues on the distortions of competition resulting from the sugar reform. the sugar reform has been in force since 2006 and has received a significant amount of funding. however, the reform has not brought much benefit to producers or consumers. the reform did not have the positive impact that was expected. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the viability of the union industry. in addition, the final consumer suffers too - in a small market like estonia, sugar is bought in at world market prices, which are very high for our consumer. i would also like to know what action the european commission is taking on the distortions of competition, the deficit and the high prices linked to the sugar reform.
mr barroso, you said in your speech that europe needed a new direction, but then you started talking about the social market economy. i am sorry, but the socialist mindset in the market economy is clearly yesterday's news in my opinion, and partly because of this mindset, europe is in crisis today. europe today needs a real market economy, where public spending is very clearly balanced with government revenues. secondly, europe clearly needs reform, which means giving businesses and entrepreneurs a clear opportunity to create growth and jobs, because we are not creating jobs here in the european parliament or in your commission. jobs are created by businesses, which need to be empowered through legislation, through lower taxes and through reducing red tape. i do not see why the profits of companies which are reinvested should not be exempt from income tax throughout europe today. and finally, europe needs e-government. it will significantly reduce public sector spending, reduce officials, which means less bureaucracy and less corruption.
mr president, the prime minister of malta, mr gonzi, recently stated that economic and financial crises are the sons and daughters of our loss of values. in fact, the crisis is first and foremost within us – in our national selfishness and the lack of will to really cooperate and reform. there will be no solution without profound changes in our attitudes, which means that the pace can no longer be set by the slowest. structural reforms are the key to progress. here lie the most dramatic disparities between the member states. some have conducted structural reforms, while some are lagging behind or just starting. there is often more lip service to reform than real change. may i suggest to the commission that it starts to coordinate and monitor progress on structural reforms in the same way that it is now engaged in coordinating and monitoring national budgets?
in writing. − i supported the adoption of a directive strengthening the rights of victims of crime, considering it important to ensure the necessary protection and recognition of all victims of crime throughout the territory of the european union, regardless of their legal status. the right to free legal aid, to victim support services, to be able to explain themselves, to avoid contact between the victim and the perpetrator, to be protected during interrogation, etc. are basic minimum requirements, the provision of which is very important for victims of crime. i also consider it very important that the directive provides for a uniform definition of victims of crime, which also gives the status of victim to the immediate family members of the victim. i also welcome the rapporteurs' proposal to criminalise all forms of gender-based violence and to provide victims with special prevention and protection measures and legal remedies. in order to make victims aware of their rights in the european union, awareness raising should be carried out through information campaigns and educational programmes in cooperation with various non-profit organisations.
mr president, this morning a journalist called me from moscow and asked the question: where did i think the russian federation would be by the end of president putin’s term of office? i think it was an essential question; nevertheless, we politicians cannot really deal with predictions like that, but should take very concrete steps. the resolution which we voted on today – and i voted in favour – is exactly such a step towards supporting, and showing our solidarity with, russian citizens, civil society and the political opposition, who are fighting for their constitutional rights in their own country. i hope that our support is very meaningful in terms of their further activities. it is symbolic, also, that we are once again discussing the russian federation at our first part-session this autumn, together with vice-president/high representative catherine ashton. i hope more concrete steps will be taken soon to implement the ‘magnitsky list’ by introducing visa bans and imposing sanctions on the assets of those who are abusing rights and misusing the judicial system for political ends.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i believe setting up an information exchange system between the commission and member states regarding intergovernmental agreements with third countries in the field of energy is absolutely needed. the european parliament has called repeatedly for a common eu foreign policy on energy which would provide a basis for transparency and coordinated actions. although measures proposed in this report are not obligatory, i urge the member states to show political will and solidarity and follow this proposal. our internal market is almost fully dependent on the imports from third countries, thus we need a system to govern this. and, as the report states, such transparency would also be of benefit in achieving both closer intra-union cooperation in the field of external energy relations and the union’s long-term policy objectives relating to energy, climate and security of energy supply.
author. − mr president, opening fire on striking miners and killing 34 people, while wounding 78, as happened on 16 august 2012, was a tragic failure on the part of the south african authorities to contain a mass protest. this terrible error of judgment has led to further demonstrations and hampered the achievement of a compromise. the striking miners have rejected the peace accord that was signed last week between the labour unions and the lonmin mining company. such a course of events requires the south african government first to conduct an independent investigation into the killings, but also to reform the labour dispute mechanisms to meet the workers’ expectations of social justice. the european union, in turn, will be able to help battle economic inequality by establishing minimum social, labour, safety and environmental standards on imported products.
mr president, the recent violent clashes between rohingya muslim and ethnic rakhine communities in burma are not a result of any single act, but of persistent neglect by the central government and failure to address ethnic tensions in the northern rakhine state. various accounts of people killed, injured or displaced paint an extremely distressing picture. in order to find a viable solution to the conflict the burmese authorities must secure stability in the region, end unequal treatment of the rohingyas and make efforts for reconciliation. recognition of rohingyas as an indigenous ethnic group would contribute to starting a constructive dialogue. an open and democratic society can be recognised essentially by its treatment of minorities. the regime transition in burma can succeed if the announced democratic reforms also reflect on the ethnic minorities.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the alde group did not sign the resolution on the case of ramil safarov, and i shall vote against this text today. it did not sign because the text is something that may escalate the existing conflict between azerbaijan and armenia over nagorno-karabakh. the territory of nagorno-karabakh and seven surrounding regions is internationally recognised as belonging to the republic of azerbaijan, and that should also be the basis for the position of the european union. the absence of any results after 20 years of work indicates that the minsk group needs a reshuffle. in order to find a balance in the negotiation process, france should be reinforced by the european union, which in my view has a historic chance to try to resolve this very frozen conflict, showing its knowledge and experience in negotiations. the european parliament remains committed to the developments in the south caucasus, and its member states are aware of the huge potential of azerbaijan. the constructive partnership between brussels and baku entails reciprocity and commitment to shared values.
in writing. – the european year of citizens might be just another year europe is proposing, but this time it is essential that all the institutions and member states take this year seriously and bring europe to all levels and all levels to europe. citizens are more and more facing fatigue from europe and feeling politics at european level distancing itself from the people. in these crucial times in which we seek to deepen european integration, it is essential that our citizens understand and support the efforts of politicians and institutions. citizens are the backbone of the eu and if we want to achieve true political and economic integration, we cannot bypass the people who would actually make it happen. we have to engage in meaningful dialogue and consultation with our citizens on european issues. also, one year before the european elections, we need to step up our efforts to explain european-level politics and political parties. for the first time, european parties will be able to campaign, and this provides an excellent opportunity to have a real european debate at all levels across europe. our citizens need to feel that their opinion counts, that european elections matter and that europe is our common home.
mr president, the european union development policy is essentially one of the most intertwined policy areas, with direct links to the foreign and security policy, human rights, climate and fisheries policies, the european neighbourhood policy and so on. yet, as the rapporteur has rightly pointed out, the political dialogue between international actors, as well as the cooperation between member states, the commission and the eeas, is still in a quite disorganised state. securing consistency between the different policies, as well as the activities, of the actors of the eu and its member states should be the responsibility of the commission. i would therefore call on the commissioner to make further efforts to implement policy coherence for development. i would also like to point out that when discussing development policy we should be thinking of a much wider range of recipients than the acp countries only. the know-how of the baltic member states has been successfully used to encourage development in ukraine and the south caucasus, for example.
rapporteur. − mr president, the name of sergei magnitsky is well known to the european parliament. it was in december 2010 that we adopted the annual report on human rights, which called for justice for this courageous russian lawyer, who died fighting corruption. although former president dmitry medvedev promised to cast light on this case, we still have not seen justice served. last week the court hearing in moscow again showed too little progress – of the 60 individuals implicated in his death, just two prison doctors have been charged with negligence. nearly three years have passed since the tragic death of sergei magnitsky in custody, after torture and non-provision of medical assistance. his horrific treatment and torture resembles the case of another young lawyer, vasily alexanyan, who was legal counsellor to mikhail khodorkovsky and yukos and who died after unlawful imprisonment. instead of facing justice, these people are still in office. they are travelling in the eu, they spend their dirty money in the eu, they buy real estate in the eu and they educate their children here. this recommendation suggests that the eu member states should stop these practices. visa bans and asset freezes are concrete reactions to such behaviour and demonstrate the eu’s value-based policy. colleagues, putin’s regime has turned its back on liberal democratic values and the rule of law. corruption has become a byword for governance in russia. the transparency international index shows russia, together with nigeria, to be at the bottom of the list. it is therefore especially arrogant of putin to ask for visa liberalisation for the holders of the so-called ‘blue passports’ that are used by the representatives of the state administration. does he really believe that the eu should welcome the masters of corruption? just two weeks ago, the monitoring report on russia’s commitments was debated next door, at the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. instead of showing goodwill and cooperation and respecting the rules of the council of europe, russia’s representatives criticised the organisation for its so-called interference in russian domestic issues. we also witnessed russia’s threats to stop its financing of the council of europe. it is not only cooperation between the eu and russia that is being challenged; the russia-nato dialogue is being similarly affected. russia’s attitude to its membership of the wto demonstrates once again that the common rules of the club do not matter. russia simply takes the wto ‘à la carte’. let us be clear. the magnitsky case is more than the tragedy of an individual fighting organised crime. his personal fate reflects the complexity of the transition that russian society is going through. the degradation of political and institutional life has translated into epic corruption on the one hand and the reanimation of civil society, claiming its constitutional rights, on the other. as russia stands at the crossroads, with civil society struggling for the rule of law, we cannot let eu banks accept the fortunes of corrupt individuals, stealing from the russian people. standing, as we do, for the universality of human rights, and issuing resolutions in favour of democracy and the rule of law in russia, we are obliged to live up to our declarations. i would, of course, ask colleagues to vote in favour of this recommendation tomorrow.
in writing. today we have established passenger rights for all modes of transport. the latter, as i recall, also concerned the rights of bus passengers. unfortunately, the regulations adopted on shipping and bus transport have not yet entered into force. given the growing transport sector and the ever-increasing number of passengers, equivalent and relevant passenger rights must also be guaranteed for all modes of transport. this is increasingly important as travel is in many cases not limited to one mode of transport but involves many different modes. it is therefore important to ensure that the booking and organisation of travel is as simple as possible and that the rights of the passenger are protected throughout the journey. i would have expected the report to include a call for passenger rights for different modes of transport to be consolidated into a single regulation. the most important common feature of the rights of passengers in different modes of transport is that it is prohibited to discriminate against passengers on the basis of their place of residence or nationality and against travel agents on the basis of their place of business. however, i believe it is important, in terms of passenger rights, that the rights and opportunities of the elderly, disabled and people with reduced mobility are also fully taken into account. the single pan-european passenger rights must be available to all. in the light of the above, i consider that this own-initiative report is necessary to give the commission clear signals as to where passenger rights need to go in order to achieve genuine freedom of movement for people.
in writing. − i supported the adoption of the report on the 2013 budget of the european union, considering it important to bring the share of payments in the next year's budget back to the level proposed by the european commission. given that the european union has not yet emerged from the economic crisis, the detrimental effects of the social crisis persist. with high unemployment still present in many member states, the recovery of 1.9 billion from the eu budget to boost growth and jobs is essential. in a situation where the european union has more responsibilities, and therefore more costs, we cannot simply cut back and then create large budget gaps that have to be 're-added' later. it is also regrettable that the cuts threaten such much-needed programmes as erasmus mundus, lifelong learning and the eu's 7th framework programme for research. they are vital to emerging stronger from the economic crisis. i am in favour of reducing administrative costs and freeing up resources to implement important programmes.
in writing. - my good colleagues. seven-year planning requires the ability to be objective in assessing today's problems on the one hand and to be able to anticipate what will actually happen in 2020. i am convinced that building common european routes and helping european union citizens to move more freely is an area we will not fail to develop better opportunities for sharing between member states is a permanent need and a sustainable policy. i therefore feel it is important to stress that the common transport policy is not a place to make budgetary concessions better connections are a key policy for a more united europe.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would invite the house to support the removal of the word ‘italy’ from recital i.
madam president, first of all allow me to thank all my colleagues who worked very closely together to prepare this recommendation to the council. i believe that this is an instrument which demonstrates eu value-based politics. this recommendation is also a clear message to those russians who want russia to be a country of the rule of law, and not of corrupt governance. those guilty of causing sergei magnitsky’s death should be brought to justice, should not be allowed to travel to the european union and should have their assets frozen here on eu territory. i would also like to call on the member states and the eis to take further necessary steps to implement this recommendation.
madam president, i voted for this very important initiative because the magnistky case is a well-proved example of cynical human rights violations which culminated in the tragic death of a russian lawyer who defended the interests of a british company. this is a recommendation to the council to ensure that officials who blatantly violate human rights in their respective countries must feel that they cannot escape unpunished. in this way the recommendation could become an important instrument in making a difference in our policies, and we would be indicating that the eu is serious in insisting on compliance with the rule of law and human rights. this is vital for our own credibility in relations with third partners. so i would ask the council to take this recommendation very seriously and ensure that this is implemented.
madam president, one cannot but support this report, but the process of achieving a unified approach to passengers’ rights has yet to be completed. it is important to ensure there is no discrimination against passengers on the basis of their nationality or place of residence, but it is similarly important to avoid discriminating against travel agencies on the basis of their location. the final goal should be a single eu directive that would include all forms of transportation and should be implemented in the medium term. i especially support the establishment, in departure and arrival halls, of focal points of information and assistance to passengers and the introduction of a unified form of complaints with facilities to forward these complaints electronically, and immediately, to the relevant authorities.
in writing. − i supported this report because i consider it very important that civil society is active and that european citizens are fully involved in the exercise of their rights. i am also convinced that every eu citizen should be aware of his or her rights to free movement and residence in the eu. as the concept of citizenship of the european union and the rights it confers are not well known, i believe that further information and involvement of citizens of all member states is necessary. it is particularly important for me as a member of the european parliament, because i am here representing the people. that is why i have expressed my support for the european year of citizenship.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. i believe that the report on passenger rights in all modes of transport adopted today is of considerable importance both for the transport sector and, in particular, for passengers. given the growing transport sector and the ever-increasing number of passengers in all modes of transport, equivalent and relevant passenger rights must also be guaranteed. this is increasingly important, as travel is in many cases not limited to one mode of transport but involves several different modes. unfortunately, the idea of requiring the commission to consolidate all the rights into a single regulation, which i believe would have made them easier to access and clearer for all parties concerned, was not supported. the most important common feature of the rights of passengers in different modes of transport is that it is prohibited to discriminate against passengers on the basis of their place of residence or nationality and against travel agents on the basis of their place of business. however, i believe it is important, in terms of passenger rights, that the rights and opportunities of the elderly, disabled and people with reduced mobility are also fully taken into account. the single pan-european passenger rights must be available to all. on the basis of the above, i supported the adoption of this report.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say something. i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the minimum level of training for seafarers today for a number of reasons. first, given that maritime transport has long since ceased to have national teams, but is now composed of seafarers from very different countries, it is important to establish and also guarantee the minimum requirements to which the skills of a seafarer in one or another post must conform. at international level, common standards for training and certification were first established by a convention adopted in 1978 and entered into force in 1984. they only became eu law in 1994. two years ago, the abovementioned convention was substantially clarified and therefore it is necessary to make amendments to eu law as well. one of the more important issues is the recognition of seafarers' certificates issued in third countries, which must ensure that these seafarers are also properly trained to ensure the safety of the entire crew. one clarification is that the directive is being supplemented in the area of seafarers' working and rest periods in order to ensure safety for all parties.
in writing. − i supported this report, which aims to increase the international competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and reduce administrative burdens. despite the fact that the administrative burden on businesses has decreased year on year, member states are facing serious problems with the transposition of eu legislation, which is causing an increase in administrative burden and increasing costs. it is therefore necessary to find ways of improving the implementation of legislation in such a way as to avoid duplication and the 'running of the office' by businesses, which leads to excessive costs. the aim of bureaucracy must not be merely the creation of social jobs for officials, but the efficiency and development of society as a whole. in order to increase people's entrepreneurship i agree with the rapporteur , the eu should invest more in action plans aimed at introducing citizens to entrepreneurship and its possibilities as an alternative to employment, especially for young people and women. the european economy must be built on the foundation of people who are enterprising, not on the foundation of an increase in administrative capacity.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate you on the successful conclusion of the discussions on the envisaged fta with japan and the adoption of the recommendation for a council decision authorising the opening of negotiations. mutual commitment to democracy, the rule of law and a free market economy creates a fertile soil for upgrading trade relations. a deep and comprehensive free trade and economic partnership agreement would surely contribute to the emergence of new synergy between the partners. both sides would benefit from such a partnership, which would give an impetus to their respective economies – in particular industry and innovation – at the turbulent time in the world economy in which we find ourselves. further integration of the european and japanese economies is also needed to compete with aggressively-growing bric nations. there is no time to lose, and i would hope that the council decision will ensure that you will very soon be able to start negotiations with the japanese counterparts.
in writing. – the single market is the very essence of european integration. in 20 years intra-european trade has been expanded by four times, as has the fdi between eu countries. yet we are continuously faced with non-implementation of existing eu directives. about 150 bottlenecks still cause serious distortion and fragmentation in the functioning of the european market. the new member states find the resistance to opening the services market especially disappointing and demoralising. this reflects in the nutshell the major problems and internal contradictions of the eu – insufficient political commitment coupled with short-term national preferences over the common good. simply enhancing the role of the commission to enforce the directives will not solve the problem. the eu first needs to address two dramatic weaknesses: 1. the alarmingly insufficient and unequal level of competitiveness motivating several member states to protectionism instead of conducting genuine structural reforms; 2. failure to fully understand that in the present demographic situation, where only 2-3 taxpayers are left for one retired person, the model of the established welfare state is not and will not be sustainable. we need to complete the single market as fast as possible, to boost the economy; this also means launching the digital single market without delay!
in writing. – the main concern of european citizens about the functioning of the single market is that it still does not fully function. issues that were initially supposed to be water under the bridge long ago have not been properly addressed. for example, a digital signature was first mentioned in eu legislation as being equal to a physical signature already more than a dozen years ago. in many member states it still remains a faint dream and very few steps are actually taken to adapt to the changing society and business environment of the 21st century. the eu needs to step up and promote the implementation of modern e-services along with common standards in order to build a digital single market and facilitate the interoperability of cross-border systems. initiatives such as stork 2.0 carry huge importance in achieving the necessary results. after addressing those issues and planning future activities, the council and the commission should make efforts to implement all legislation strictly and promptly in all member states. the future of the single market should not depend on the good will of the slowest, but on the coherent hard work of all member states.
in writing. − i would like to thank my colleagues for supporting this important report, for which i drafted the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. the concept of european citizenship should be reinforced by concrete action to give it more weight. therefore, it has been proposed to give the european external action service, and the union delegations in particular, greater coordinating powers in crisis situations as well as to entrust them with consular tasks, where appropriate. these steps are necessary first of all to uphold the rights of the eu citizens, but also for the credibility and visibility of the union. as a former minister of foreign affairs of one of the smallest member states i am well aware of the limited network of their representations abroad and the importance of cooperation between eu member states. quite often this is a matter of life and death.
in writing. - i did not support the appointment of yves merschi because the ecb's executive board is currently composed of men only. the members of the executive board of the european central bank shall be appointed for a term of eight years, and the term of office of the next member of the executive board shall expire after a period of five years. i am a strong advocate of gender equality and i am convinced that improving the gender balance in the governing council of the european central bank would also contribute to better decision-making in the wake of the financial crisis.
madam president, i wholeheartedly support the commission’s endeavours to create a more predictable and transparent regulatory environment in mutual trade. the eu has consistently supported russia’s membership of the wto and its explanations that it would commit its authorities to obey the rules of international trade. however, the past ten months have not been particularly encouraging. therefore i think it is important to formulate a clear and comprehensive eu position to indicate that this time we expect moscow to live up to its commitments. we should not waste any time in doing this. let us be under no illusions. the pattern in russia has thus far been a selective one, mostly insisting on exceptions when it is in russia’s particular interests. the energy charter treaty has been a notorious example. russia’s commitments to the wto provide for the substantial lowering of tariffs in goods and services and the elimination by moscow of the dual pricing of goods, as well as clarification of the terms of establishment of services companies, investment protection and avoiding discrimination. i have two suggestions for the commission. the eu clearly has to indicate that full compliance with the wto rules will be a precondition for continuing negotiations for a new eu-russia trade treaty. secondly, the commission should use eu technologies, standards and conformity assessment procedures in forthcoming negotiations, insisting that our counterparts accommodate themselves to eu rules, which are anyway in harmony with the wto rules.
madam president, the eu has been a strong supporter of russia’s wto membership. we hoped that having the same rules would help boost economic relations with russia and automatically resolve the issue of the current trade barriers. it seemed to be a step forward in our relationship, the economic significance of which cannot be underestimated. the eu continues to be russia’s main trading partner and also the biggest foreign investor in that country. however, looked at today, russian accession has sadly not lived up to our expectations. moreover, it seems that russia has been increasing the number of protectionist measures and ignoring wto rules and regulations. on 20 march this year, russia decided to ban all imports of live animals from the eu, saying that the spread of the schmallenberg virus made these imports too risky. this reason was immediately declared to be ‘disproportionate and not based on scientific evidence’. what is more, many live animals such as pigs are not affected by the virus at all. the real reason for such behaviour from the russian side is the wish to implement protectionist measures because, starting from russia’s accession to the wto, the import duties for live pigs had to decrease from 40 % to 5 %. despite letters and consultations at the highest level, russia has not agreed to lift the ban. this is an extremely important issue for estonia, from where nearly 60 % of live pigs used to be exported to russia. therefore, before moving ahead with trade relations, the current restrictions and clear violations of wto rules need to be solved as fast as possible. there is also a need to come up with measures to influence the russian side to implement and respect the common wto rules and not to take wto as being à la carte.
russia's membership of the wto has a positive impact on the economy. free trade is important within europe but also outside. russia should of course behave as a full member by fulfilling all the obligations of membership. this also applies to france, which sells mistral vessels to them. in the baltic sea and the seca, strict unclos and ec directives on the sulphur content of marine fuels are in force. the introduction of a mistral vessel into the baltic sea will not have a positive impact on its biological or political environment. ceterum censeo: i am sure that france will regret its decision to sell mistral ships to russia.
the european parliament will soon be debating a draft directive on greenhouse gases from motor fuels and their calculation methodology. the adoption of the draft directive will establish a legislative framework which will make it more difficult to market motor fuels produced from oil shale in the member states of the european union. the issue of continued production of fossil fuels is of strategic importance for estonia, thus reducing dependence on imported fuel and diversifying the fuel market, but the bill puts sellers of unconventional motor fuels in a worse market situation and the principles set out there do not favour but tax the sale of fossil fuels on the estonian fuel market. in this way, co2 emissions are not reduced but rather increased, as the artificial need to import all the diesel needed by estonia is created, while the equivalent amount of diesel is exported from estonia. i think that unnecessary circular transport of fuel should rather be avoided. nor is it worth paying a co2 premium to brokerage firms and shipping diesel produced in estonia out of the european union, which eventually ends up back on our markets as an import, mixed with other fuels.
madam president, i have observed in this chamber that our debates and resolutions about other countries are often dominated by party political passion rather than cool assessment of facts. hence i am more than happy with today’s result, which is balanced and objective. i would like to applaud the greens, liberals and social democrats for their appreciation of statements made by, and the behaviour of, president saakashvili after the elections, despite the frequently justified criticisms that have been directed at this president of georgia. the same praise goes to our conservative colleagues for giving the winning former opposition the benefit of the doubt. we agree that the de facto occupation of georgian territories by russia should be stopped, but we should also try to behave according to the spirit of our texts, and it is not only for this parliament’s delegation to raise this issue with russia: baroness ashton, commissioner füle and every commission official at every meeting with russian colleagues should bring the issue to the table. perhaps the business leaders of europe should also talk about it until the russian government understands. in paragraph 10 of the motion for a resolution, we refer to the need for better rules on party financing in georgia. it is true that such rules are needed, and i agree with my colleague ulrike lunacek there. but we should also focus on our own rules, in the context of a new set of rules for political parties and their financing at european level as well as party financing in the various member states. i am ashamed to report to this chamber that the former communists governing estonia – important players in the old totalitarian soviet system – are mismanaging public and private funds in the most cynical ways in order to reinforce their vertical power structure. we should demand that former communists, who nowadays have the unfortunate habit of calling themselves liberals, apply the same financing rules that we expect our georgian friends to apply to their political parties.
madam president, in contrast to the elections in belarus, the electoral process in georgia has demonstrated the country’s growing democratic maturity. commissioner, i would like to thank you for your timely visit to georgia and for meeting both sides there. it is in the eu’s and georgia’s mutual interest now to make the maximum effort to keep georgia on its freely chosen course towards euro-atlantic integration. provided that the new government follows up its declarations with deeds, georgians now have a chance to deepen their democracy. however, we need to remain vigilant, particularly given the powerful role played by money in the election campaign and the fact that the bulk of that money was made in russia and is connected with the winning party. i call on the commission to speed up its efforts to achieve visa liberalisation as soon as possible, to make maximum use of the fact that both georgia and russia have now become members of the world trade organisation, and strongly to defend georgia’s territorial integrity, while ensuring that eu observers have access to the occupied territories.
mr president, although the united arab emirates remained relatively untouched by the events of the arab spring, the country is plagued by similar ills to bahrain, egypt, libya, tunisia, syria and others. the human rights and civil liberties of the people are suppressed, while the stage where this tragedy is taking place is decorated with oil money. in the resolution we express our deep concern for the security and fate of the human rights defenders, political activists and civil society actors and call on the united arab emirates to grant to all people their fundamental rights. as a member of the united nations human rights council from 2013 to 2015, the united arab emirates should set an example and halt the ongoing crack-downs, release all prisoners of conscience and investigate the assaults and threats made against activists. oil deposits cannot overshadow the universality and inviolability of human rights.
mr president, this spring i was one of the initiators of a written declaration on education and religious discrimination in pakistan. this autumn, the cold-blooded assault on malala yousafzai has proved that the intolerance and discrimination we were referring to are still more than present in pakistan and that the taliban and al-qa’ida are terrorising society in order to hinder any democratic and egalitarian reform. i would like to express my deep condolences to the family of malala yousafzai and to commend pakistani society, islamic scholars and political parties who condemned the attack. that is a clear sign of a profound comprehension of human values, and i would urge the pakistan authorities to act against the antagonists of gender mainstreaming and against the terrorists.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, cambodia has made some progress towards democracy, but we are concerned about citizens who have been standing up for human rights and are treated by the authorities as having committed anti-state crimes. just 25 days ago, four human rights defenders were sentenced to jail by a phnom penh court. the second item of concern is the government’s handling of land concession policies. this is an internal problem, of course. however, the fact that over the past decade almost half a million people have been displaced and dispossessed of their homes and land has not only led to violent clashes but also to deepening poverty. i ask the cambodian authorities to stop politically-motivated harassment of the opposition and civil rights activists, and we urge cambodia to reform its election system – to bring it into harmony with international standards and the un recommendations – and, finally, to enforce a moratorium on forced evictions of landowners.
mr president, sam rainsy is an outstanding cambodian liberal politician, and i fully condemn a politically motivated conviction of him as well as similar sentences and convictions against political critics, parliamentary opposition politicians, human rights defenders and land activists in cambodia. the cambodian nation deserves a peaceful reconciliation that is not undermined by the persecution of opposition politicians. a lesson of compromise might at first seem difficult to learn, but it is an integral part of a truly democratic society. a visit of sam rainsy to cambodia to pay his respects to the late king-father norodom sihanouk would be a litmus test of the intentions of the cambodian authorities.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution on belarus for two reasons: to condemn the recent parliamentary elections and to demonstrate my support for the belarusian citizens, who do not want to live under the authoritarian rule. the eu has long understood lukashenko’s ruling methods and therefore the results of the elections were no surprise. they did not meet any basic standards set by the osce. once again we were witness to the political farce that serves only the interests of lukashenko. having lived in an occupied country myself, i know very well how important it is to know that you have not been forgotten and left in the cruel hands of the regime. this resolution is a signal of european support to the belarusian people. there is no place for a dictatorship in europe.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution. it encourages all georgian political parties to work together constructively to ensure stability, the rule of law, respect for human rights and also good governance. therefore i believe that any threats of mass retribution against former government members or pressure on the parliamentary opposition to switch to georgian dream might lead to their further polarisation. this resolution supports the new government in continuing its cooperation with the eu and also with nato. it also calls on russia to withdraw from the occupied territories of abkhazia and south ossetia. finally, the mass media are a central element in any democracy. therefore, the change of ownership of one of the major tv channels and closure of two others very shortly after the elections raises questions.
in writing. − i am pleased that the 2011 activity report of the european ombudsman, whose adoption i supported, shows that the number of complaints falling outside the ombudsman's remit fell to 1846 in 2011, the lowest level since 2003. this means that the european union's citizens are more aware of the ombudsman's powers, thanks to the clearer information he provides and the more citizen-friendly procedures he has introduced, which has led to more inquiries. however, since the closure of the investigation has been somewhat delayed as a result, more emphasis should be placed on the shortening of the procedure. as a member of the european parliament, i also welcome the significant decrease in the number of inquiries concerning the european parliament initiated by the ombudsman by more than half in the year .
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, in order to reduce the frequency and impact of terrorist attacks, we need to take steps to prevent the threat to european citizens. although the source material of many explosives is also used for legitimate purposes, i believe it is reasonable to monitor and document their use and sale in high concentrations. one of these is to restrict open access to the substances provided, to ensure that they are used legally and only by professional users and businesses. while the prevention of terrorist threats is important, it must be borne in mind that the right of individuals to privacy must be fully respected and that such regulations must not go beyond those limits. i supported the adoption of the relevant provisions.
in writing. - i voted for the report. it is important to ensure a sufficient level of employment in the future and to improve the competitiveness of the european union, and social investment is important in this respect. the economic and financial crisis is not only affecting the economy, but also the level of employment and social investment in europe. however, the search for solutions has so far focused on short-term objectives and has ignored social and employment policies as a means of improving economic outcomes. with an unemployment rate in the european union of over 10% and with unemployment particularly hard hit by the young and with the number of citizens aged over 65 years critical to the number of european citizens in work, the problems need to be addressed through social investment. the aim must be to prepare society as a whole to adapt to changing economic conditions. invest in people member states should focus more on providing comprehensive assistance to the unemployed, creating sustainable jobs, investing in education and reforming pension systems. member states must also sign social investment agreements to ensure that the agreed europe 2020 strategy is implemented.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending rule 70 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, because the european parliament is the representative body of all citizens of the european union, which must be based on the principle of democratic accountability. the procedures for the negotiation of tripartite agreements and legislative instruments need to be made more efficient, transparent and inclusive. the question of interinstitutional negotiations and agreements is linked to representative democracy at european level through openness and democratic accountability. the voter must be able to know what their elected representatives have said and how they voted. only then will voters be able to make a decision in the next election on the basis of the work of the members of parliament so far. the treaty on european union requires the eu to operate on the basis of representative democracy and to take decisions as openly and as closely as possible to the citizen. the amendment of rule 70 is a small but necessary step towards strengthening representative democracy at european level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. digital payments are an area where european consumers and businesses face discrimination based on their country of residence and obstacles that should not exist anymore. card payment fees vary greatly depending on the financial institution and national laws. further, cards are not inter-accepted across sepa. online transactions face the most discriminatory practices, where especially businesses and residents of member states who joined in 2004 and 2007 face, in addition to the refusal of their cards, refusal as a shipping destination. this is not only a nightmare for the customers, but seriously also hinders free competition. non-bureaucratic, transparent, and uniform and customer-friendly payment systems have to be implemented without delay across the sepa area. it is unrealistic to preach about digital single market and about boosting e-commerce at a time when most users face unfair practices and transactions costs that might even exceed the purchase value. i fully support the rapporteur’s demands on the commission to take legislative action to ensure fair competition, financial inclusion, and transparency for consumers, payment security and the protection of personal data. uniform legislation would increase consumer confidence and boost e-commerce and definitely contribute to digital single market.
in writing. − i supported this report because the diversity of means of payment has increased and is increasing in europe and elsewhere in the world. however, when developing new means of payment, it should be borne in mind that the use of card payments, for example, has not yet reached its potential and efficiency. i believe that the development of different payment instruments should be steady, because consumers and traders should have access to more convenient, safer, faster and more cost-effective payment methods - which in turn will help to boost the european economy. i supported the approach that common standards should be implemented in europe to ensure the security of card payments and to strengthen competition. in the long term, you should also keep in mind that the fees and the cost of payments should be reduced. this will ensure that consumers have easier access to and more convenience in using different payment methods.
in writing. − more effective supervision of banking and shadow banking is certainly necessary to make banking more transparent and to avoid market manipulation. i also supported this report, which draws attention to the foregoing. unfortunately, depending on the country, many shadow banking activities are unregulated, making auditing extremely difficult or almost impossible in the event of cash flow disturbances and credit risk distortions. i therefore consider it necessary to disclose the transfer of assets from the balance sheet in order to address the shortcomings in international financial reporting. the responsibility of accountants and internal auditors to inform about potential risks should certainly be increased. accounting rules should reflect reality, not wishful thinking, for example, where real estate is valued well above market value. such manipulations bring instability to banking and should be avoided, as the basis of banking is above all trustworthiness.
in writing. - i was neutral in the vote on this report. i am fully convinced that the protection of children online must be ensured by law enforcement. however, the digital world is not only a great threat, but also an opportunity for broadening horizons and for informal learning. this report is one-sided and calls for self-regulation by private enterprises and underestimates the role of both parents and schools. protecting children and educating them about safe online behaviour is a primary responsibility of parents and schools. the report does not create new value beyond that already contained in previously adopted documents, such as the 2011 directive or the data protection regulation of the same year, etc.
in writing. − i supported this report, considering it of the utmost importance to reduce unemployment and to deliver on the europe 2020 strategy, which aims at sustainable and inclusive growth. social enterprises account for 10% of all european enterprises, employ more than 11 million people and supporting and promoting this form of enterprise will undoubtedly help to reduce the negative effects of the economic crisis. given the high unemployment rate among young people, it is particularly important to involve young people in the social entrepreneurship sector in order to provide them with the opportunity to start their careers and to bring new skills and enthusiasm to the field. of course, there is also a need to make better use of the experience and skills of older ones. it is through solidarity, where every member of society matters, regardless of age, religion, race or gender, that a socially cohesive europe with a sustainable economy can be ensured.
in writing. − i voted for the thyssen report which is really comprehensive and urgently needed. while formulating its policy options, the commission and the council should take more seriously into account the positions of the european parliament on the multi-annual framework. i support the understanding that the own-resource system needs an urgent reform and that in the future, the eu budget should be funded solely by own resources. however, i cannot agree with the recommendation 2.5 advocating the gradual roll-over of excessive debt into a redemption fund. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that having common rules is one of the most important preconditions for having a common currency. the economic and monetary union must become an instrument in achieving financial discipline in the member states. this is crucial in order to restore confidence and convince european citizens and enterprises to start investing again in the economy. taking all that into consideration, i support the fact that this report also calls for the implementation to be in line with the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity.
in writing. – the eu needs a solid and credible mff. that is especially true in conditions of the continuing economic and financial crisis. for several member states the eu budget will be the only reliable source for making investments. it is a limited and irresponsible vision of future to reduce the eu budget in order to achieve short-term savings. member states whose leaders are insisting on freezing or reducing the amount of mff tend to ignore the fact that during the recent past national budgets have grown several times faster than the eu budget. freezing the eu budget will demonstrate both hypocrisy and irresponsibility for 2020 priorities which cannot be realized without increasing the mff, not reducing it. the eu is based first of all on the principle of mutual solidarity. estonia still has lower pensions than greeks. even so, it is contributing to the rescue operation to help greece out of the crisis. however, solidarity can work only both ways. estonia, latvia and lithuania still have their infrastructures designed for relations with the soviet union, not with europe. only a credible mff can help them to overcome the heritage of the past and become connected to the heart of europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. this is one of first direct opportunities, after russia joined the wto, to apply rules under the wto. considering that russia almost immediately after wto accession broke the rules, it is crucial to monitor very closely the implementation of agreed tariff-rate quotas applying to exports of wood from russia to the eu. the protocol was part of wto accession negotiations and both the eu and wto need to make sure it is applied without delay.
in writing. − i believe that the european union's energy independence is very important and i support the search for alternative sources of supply. the production of shale gas and shale oil must of course follow the rules of sustainable and safe production and take into account the environmental impact assessment carried out in advance. as a native of the oil shale country of estonia, i am satisfied that our oil shale producers are correctly complying with the european union's environmental standards. there is effective monitoring, both by the state and the public, including through public consultations on environmental impact assessment. however, the production of oil and gas by hydraulic fracturing raises questions as the use of this technology has received conflicting assessments and is not sufficiently safe for the environment. i therefore could not support the amendment which supports the use of hydraulic fracturing technology. i supported the report because it highlights the need for european energy independence and supports the search for new sources of supply. our member states should not be energy dependent on undemocratic gas and oil states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of both reports on shale gas. energy independence should be one of the eu’s most important geopolitical goals and therefore it is crucial that member states can make their own decisions on energy. should energy decisions also affect other member states, the opinions and the european dimension need to be taken into account – as often emphasized by parliament. this protects the sovereignty of member states in their choices of energy and allows for the diversification of energy sources – which is crucial for the member states who are currently dependant to a large extent on one country as a major energy provider, russia. the sonik report clearly points out that fears and prejudices against shale gas and its environmental and health impact are mostly ungrounded, as long as the highest environmental and safety standards are applied. unnecessary propaganda creating fears in regard to shale gas, but also nuclear power, is irresponsible. we have to guarantee the highest safety and ensure there are no negative effects on the environment or on health, but people must also have a warm house and lighting at affordable prices. we need alternative energy and shale gas might be the solution at the moment.
in writing. - i supported both the lpg reports in today's vote for the following reasons. first, the eu has significant shale gas reserves, of which some 14 000 billion cubic metres may be technically available. this is comparable to the eu's annual consumption of around 522 billion cubic metres of domestic and imported conventional gas. therefore, there is a high demand for energy carriers and the potential use of shale gas will increase our energy independence. secondly, article 194 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union clearly states that member states have sovereign rights in the choice of energy mix and that the issue of licences and other permits for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbon resources is a matter for the member state. perhaps it is up to each member state to decide how to deal with these issues. thirdly, environmental safety must be ensured irrespective of the decisions of the member state and, if the waste gas is extracted, strict control must be ensured to ensure maximum compliance with environmental requirements.
in writing. − i supported this report because i consider the work of the committee on petitions to be very important for the european institutions to be more transparent and to provide more information to eu citizens. the 2011 report of the committee on petitions shows that the number of inadmissible petitions was quite high, which means that more work needs to be done in informing citizens and that parliament should also increase its efforts in this area. given the current european debt crisis, it is natural that the number of petitions under the heading of economic and financial affairs has increased. it is good to see that people are becoming more aware of the environment and want to get more involved in this area, as evidenced by the increase in the number of petitions on the environment, which already accounted for 16% of the total number of petitions registered. the latter, however, are largely due to problems in the application of the eia directive, where the public is not always sufficiently consulted.
rapporteur. − mr president, this is to be seen as a first comprehensive message from the european parliament to address both cyber security and cyber defence. since the first politically motivated cyber attacks against the state in 2007, cyber challenges and attacks have been growing at a dramatic pace and constitute a serious threat to security, stability and also to the competitiveness of different societies. the have the potential to do genuine damage. cyber threats and attacks have become a constant, let us say, collateral element of our everyday lives. there is still no internationally agreed model on how to respond to state-backed cyber attacks against a member state. the report therefore urges the commission, and especially the high representative, to consider implementation of article 222, the solidarity clause, or in the absence of common terminology, at least a mutual defence clause, in the case of a serious cyber attack against a member state. our main message to the commission is to come forward with a comprehensive eu cyber security strategy providing a common definition of cyber security and defence, as well as a common operating vision to enhance horizontal cooperation and coordination of cyber security and to create synergies at the eu levels. there are signals that the commission is in the course of preparations and i hope that today’s report will encourage the commission to complete its preparations. cyber security policies should not be implemented at the expense of digital freedoms which are in fact a prerequisite for fully enjoying human rights. therefore, we call for caution while applying restrictions on citizens’ free use of cyber space, which has two billion globally connected users. it is a powerful instrument for mediating freedom and also fighting dictatorships. at the same time, we realise that security and defence problems ultimately have to be addressed by the national governments. what do we see? we see dramatically different levels of preparedness among member states. only ten member states have completed their national cyber security defence strategies, while 17 are still expected follow suit. some important points were made in this report. we need a coordinated assessment of cyber attacks on the eu level. we call on all eu institutions to include in their risk analysis and crisis management plans the issue of cyber crisis management. and there is a call for a back to basics. cyber security depends not only on modern technology, but starts with elementary cyber hygiene. the great majority of cyber attacks can be prevented by providing citizens as well as civil servants with adequate education. it is high time to introduce cyber security in education, in school curricula, from the earliest possible age. private-public cooperation is a key factor. the private sector is an important actor and we call for creation of frameworks and instruments for a rapid information change system that could guarantee anonymity of private firms when reporting cyber attacks.
rapporteur. − mr president, as a rapporteur i have discovered huge resources in the results of the work of previous european generations in the same area and topic, namely csdp and climate change. one is of the utmost necessity during times of a globally changing security environment and the other is around and happening every day. hence we must live with that and cope with it. that is why i believe our debate is very timely. it comes after hurricane sandy but, more importantly, it comes simultaneously with a non-paper by the cyprus presidency on the need to develop the military capacity of the eu, which aims to have a decision made by the council during the year 2013. we began the work on this report by convening a meeting of different stakeholders – with external action service staff, with the commission dgs clima, echo and devco, eu military staff, the eda and people from various other institutions. i learned a lot from those people. may i use the opportunity to thank them for their help and guidance. besides that, i pushed two other issues. firstly, to appoint an eu climate security envoy within the external action service, following the british government’s example – admiral neil morisetti has been very successfully working for three years in this function. we also believe that this could support the german government initiative to give an impulse to a similar function with the united nations system. secondly, another idea was to use the generally acknowledged perception that climate change is a threat multiplier and to use it as a platform to introduce more cooperation between member states and the respective military in particular, up to forming a joint engineering corps for the european union. the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups worked hard and many succeeded in convincing their political groups to support these ideas, whereas others disagreed and gave substantial reasons for their objections. we ended up with 17 compromises out of 150 amendments. i would like to thank all the shadows for their contributions, which made the report clearer and better, sometimes less ambitious but at the same time more pragmatic and closer to the democratic consensus which we cherish in this house. colleagues, thank you. i have learned a lot from you. to give just one example, mr van orden asked me to be specific on the engineering corps and i was in some difficulty. only later i discovered that this might have happened because i am only a former soviet sergeant, but he has the experience of a brigadier. so we will have to cooperate on that in the future as we were able agree on his other concerns. i wish to quickly highlight the three important points in this report where we achieved consensus. the lisbon treaty creates new provisions for implementing csdp activities. that is why this report also describes tools which could be used, for example, in policy planning, with a coherent and logical approach to defence adapted to security challenges that we in europe will have to face in decades to come. also the mainstreaming of potential effects of climate on security into the most important strategies, policy documents and financial instruments, would be a success in my opinion. in the external action service it could also be done in the same way as the recently appointed special representative on human rights. that could also work with climate and security. i would like to say a couple of words about duplication. we have been accused, regarding the role of the csdp in climate-driven security threats, of duplicating the excellent work that has been done by commissioner georgieva and her people in the field of the civil protection mechanism. we had a meeting with commissioner georgieva, who, as a former professor and author of many books on environmental economics, had no difficulty at all in seeing that this report is complementary to her achievements. i would like to thank her for her participation in making this report. i am excited that today’s debate is taking place and look forward to hearing every comment.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, you have come up with a number of suggestions on how to improve our approach and our actions and i consider the report instrumental for our policy debate. this has been an interesting and i think a very important debate. not least because, in the context of looking at the economic situation that member states and institutions find themselves in, it is absolutely vital that we discuss how best to make sure that we are able to respond to some of the crises and security threats we are faced with as individual nations, as parliamentarians and as institutions. i am very pleased to note the relevance that the conclusions adopted on monday by the foreign affairs/defence council chaired by the high representative/vice-president have in this respect and that they are in line with the contents of your reports. let me just remind you of a couple of key elements which are relevant to our debate today. by this i would like to convince mr van orden to take a more positive view on csdp. monday’s conclusions stressed that capabilities underpin the eu’s ability to act as a security provider in the context of a wider comprehensive approach. also, the council underlines the necessity to maximise the effectiveness of europe’s defence expenditure in times of financial austerity, including through pooling and sharing. it also stresses the wider impact of the defence sector on innovation, technology and growth and the need for synergies with wider eu policies in these fields mr van orden says that the eu does not need military means and can leave this to nato. but is operation atalanta not an example that an eu military mission has an effect and is useful? it has an effect on piracy and it has been cooperating very well with nato. the same can be said about our training mission in somalia, which has had a positive effect on strengthening the somalian government. if i am correct, the british government is supporting these eu operations. i would also like to recall that the united states in their strategic review asked for greater responsibility and a greater role for the european union as a security provider in the world. on the issue of a special representative dealing with climate security, the european union is already focussing political attention on climate security challenges through its established structures. the european union is also sponsoring international debate including at the level of the un security council. the priority appears to be to continue building up awareness and capacities at the multilateral level and in regional fora. in this regard, we take note of the report’s recommendation to work towards the nomination of a special envoy at united nations level. the european union is already coordinating its action on climate security aspects with the un and its agencies. the nomination of a un envoy would help this ongoing coordination and help maintain political visibility at un level. let me end by saying – as the high representative/vice-president constantly does – how proud we are and should be of the servicemen and women who are operating in theatre at the present time. as we move towards christmas and for us a holiday season, i am very conscious that men and women are serving across the world and especially, as was mentioned, in very dangerous places. the high representative/vice-president and myself are extremely proud of the work that they do and i know that members of this house are too.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am satisfied that there seems to be almost a consensus about the need to create a united eu cyber defence and cyber security strategy. however, i would like to mention one fact, namely that two years ago we decided to aim for a level of at least 2 % expenditure on defence, research and development from the general defence budget. so far only one member state has done this, whereas five member states have spent nothing on r&d so far. in this field there are no smart solutions possible to save more money. defence and security are costly and we have to meet these expenses. i would also like to mention the role of the european defence agency and enisa. their role can, and should, be enhanced in assisting our member states, in helping to pool and share the existing experience and in developing a good practice guide. finally, with regard to international cooperation, i think the role of the eu, and especially the commission, is to mainstream cyber security aspects in all relations with third countries, to encourage our partners to join the budapest convention and to agree on minimum standards on responsible behaviour in cyber space. the eu should also assist third countries, if needed, to build their cyber security facilities.
rapporteur. − mr president, what mr watson said earlier proves that with goodwill and a sense of urgency we can have results, because the end of his speech was absolutely identical to the recent words of ambassador telemachou of cyprus, the country holding the presidency. i was a shadow on mr kelam’s report and i always follow with interest the activities and writings of mr danjean, as well as mr paşcu, so i would like to point out that it has been a great pleasure and privilege to be part of the team in the subcommittee on security and defence (sede). it is not yet a dream team but it has very devoted players. i hope that our four reports will be supported by majorities tomorrow. indeed we need political will and action for the implementation of the recommendations made in my report and in the other three reports. as has been said today by mr danjean, ms koppa, mr watson, mr paleckis and others, we urge the council, the commission and the external action service to act immediately. i wish everybody a peaceful night before tomorrow’s vote.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i acknowledge the political will and practical action of kazakhstan to deepen the partnership with the european union and the opening of negotiations on the eu-kazakhstan partnership and cooperation agreement. it is therefore essential to ensure that this new partnership and cooperation agreement provides a comprehensive framework for the further development of relations in all priority areas, including human rights, the rule of law, democratisation; youth and education; economic development, trade and investment; energy and transport; environmental sustainability and water; and the fight against common threats and challenges. it is certainly necessary to work closely with kazakhstan to develop peaceful and progressive relations in the central asian region, in order to ensure positive developments in this region. the areas of water and resource management, border management, the fight against extremism and the fight against terrorism should be given particular attention. the completion of the negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement will have a positive impact on the deepening of economic cooperation between eu and kazakh enterprises, including smes, and will increase the overall economic benefits for both parties. attention should also be paid to the technical assistance to kazakhstan in the field of water conservation and general water resources management under the eu's central asia water initiative, which aims primarily at improving relations between upstream and downstream countries in the region and at achieving sustainable water-sharing agreements. it is hoped that the new agreement will also bring significant progress.
in writing. − unfortunately, the trend in the baltic sea salmon stocks is still downwards, despite the objective of restoring the region's salmon stocks. i agree that more research should also be done on the impact of the activities of predators and birds of prey on salmon stocks, but we must acknowledge the fact that the main threat is still human activity, whether it is environmental damage caused by dams in hydroelectric power stations or poaching, where salmon are recorded in the catch data as sea trout. i have always appreciated the great contribution made by sweden and finland to the development of environmental protection in the baltic sea region and i hope that they will be able to engage with the same active and seriousness in the restoration and protection of the baltic sea salmon stocks. i supported this report, which considered that greater monitoring of salmon fishing was needed and that the recommendations of the baltic sea marine environmental protection committee (helcom) on this issue should be followed.
in writing. − enlargement of the european union benefits both current and future member states, which is why i supported this resolution, which stresses the importance of further eu enlargement. the alarming statements by european sceptics that europe would suffer an economic fiasco if more candidate countries joined the union are certainly not true. on the contrary, enlargement provides new markets - i.e. income - for the old member states and, in turn, new investments for the candidate countries, which in turn stimulates the european economy as a whole. this was also confirmed by the experience of the eastern european union. in addition to the economic benefits, the political benefits of a united europe cannot be underestimated. of course, the eu cannot make concessions to the candidate countries on our values and fundamental principles, such as the safeguarding of human rights and democracy. it is important to pay more attention to the social dimension in the enlargement process, so future member states will have to comply with the requirements of the eu acquis in the areas of labour law, health and safety at work and equal treatment between women and men.
in writing. - i supported the resolution. despite the fact that over a thousand rockets are fired at israel from the gaza strip every year, israel has been a patient patient in recent years. the escalation of this armed conflict has come as a surprise to the world, and we cannot ignore the fact that gaza's rockets are no longer only landing in the negev desert, but are now capable of hitting tel aviv. large civilian casualties have been avoided thanks to israel's high level of military-technical capability. egypt's role in the region, its help in pressuring the palestinians to return to the negotiating table, is very important. the continuation of hamas' activities is also devastating for the palestinians living in the area. but in supporting the resolution, i could not support the fifth item. it is highly questionable to give palestine equal status with, say, the vatican. in the long run, setting such a precedent is short-sighted.
in writing. - it is regrettable that the situation in the gaza strip has once again become tense, and fortunately, today, the situation has reached a point of no return. i strongly condemn the escalation of violence which has caused human casualties and unacceptable suffering to civilians on both sides. i supported the adoption of this joint resolution, but unfortunately i could not support the paragraph on the palestinian desire to become an observer state at the un, as it is not related to the critical events that are taking place at the moment, and i feel that these two very different things should not be discussed together. the resolution can and must have only one objective: to stop and prevent hostilities between the parties, so that innocent civilians do not suffer.
in writing. − it is said that accidents do not call when they happen, so it is essential to analyse the different risks early on and to put in place a possible action plan. the report by my estonian colleague, mr indrek taranti, which i supported, is certainly important in this respect, as it draws attention to the risks of climate-related crises and natural disasters and the need for an action plan to address them. i agree with the rapporteur that cooperation between the military and the civil sector is a sensible approach to dealing with various crises and accidents. i certainly do not agree with those members who believe that cooperation with the armies of the member states of the european union and nato would be dangerous in some way and would militarise europe excessively. it must be borne in mind that the militaries of the european member states and nato as a whole have a high capacity to respond to disasters and it would be foolish not to use such a resource, especially in peacetime. given the world situation, with small pacific island states such as kiribati and tonga soon to disappear under the sea, the eu, with the foreign service at its fore, must develop a proper risk analysis and action plan to deal with such and other threats. the eu is a global power, alongside the us and china, and we need to take account of its role and contribute to the resolution of various crises around the world.
in writing. − this report is comprehensive and gives a good overview of developments in kazakhstan and of eu-kazakhstan cooperation, which is why i supported its adoption. i am pleased to note that the so-called periphery of the former soviet union has become an economically developed country with a steadily rising standard of living. kazakhstan has also become a strategically important bridge between europe and asia. there is no doubt that kazakhstan's leaders have done a lot for the country's development, but we cannot ignore the many human rights violations and persecution of the opposition that intensified after the tragedy in zhangaozen in december 2011. however, it must be recognised that the kazakh authorities have recently made significant efforts in cooperation with ngos to improve the situation of the population living in the western part of the country. multinational kazakhstan is one of the largest countries in the world in terms of area and the economic and cultural diversity of the regions is very high, which should lead to greater efforts to integrate society.
in writing. − in today's vote, i supported the report on the negotiations for an enlarged partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and kazakhstan, recognising the political will and practical action of kazakhstan to deepen the partnership with the european union. kazakhstan is an important partner of the european union from both a trade and socioeconomic perspective and has an important role to play in ensuring political stability in central asia. in this context, it is certainly necessary to provide that the new partnership and cooperation agreement should provide a comprehensive framework for the further development of relations in all priority areas, including human rights, the rule of law, democratisation, youth and education, economic development, trade and investment, energy and transport, environmental sustainability and water, and the fight against common threats and challenges.
author. − mr president, on 22 october sattar beheshti wrote in his blog, and let me quote: ‘the sentences and (...) the executions carried out (...) were not out of a desire for justice – but were aimed at terrorising the people! so that no one will complain!’ soon after that he was arrested and tortured. he reportedly died in custody on 3 november. although the exact circumstances surrounding his death have not yet been established, several reports indicate that he died as a direct result of torture. this shows the barbaric, unlawful and violent nature of the iranian regime. this needs to change and the eu needs to step up in encouraging the iranian authorities to re-engage in a human rights dialogue. i would like to send my deepest condolences to sattar beheshti’s family, and to others who have suffered because of the cruel violence of the regime which this house has discussed so many times, unfortunately without a result as yet.
author. − mr president, i have the warmest sentiments towards the buddhist philosophy and that is precisely why i find it difficult to understand how people who believe in compassion, peace and harmony continue persecuting the rohingya muslim community in rakhine state in burma. referring to the debate and resolution of 13 september 2012, i would like to reiterate and insist that the burmese authorities secure stability in the region, end unequal treatment of the rohingyas and make efforts for reconciliation. of course it is not only up to the government, but first and foremost up to the buddhist community in rakhine state. i would like to reiterate the words of a great hindu statesman mahatma gandhi, who said: ‘an eye for an eye will only make the whole world blind’. i call on the burmese authorities to end discriminatory practices against rohingya and to carry out a full and independent investigation into the distressing events that have taken place in rakhine state. i also welcome the offer of eur 78 million by president barroso of the european commission during his visit to the burmese capital nay pyi taw. the amount is foreseen for development aid, which cannot be unconditional. straightforward reforms must be carried out and visible progress must be made in burma.
author. − mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to congratulate the democratically elected government of libya that was sworn in on 14 november this year. however, there is a long way to go until we see a fully-fledged democratic country that upholds human rights, civil liberties, the rule of law and gender equality. i wish libya success and the best of luck. one of the most imminent problems facing the new libyan government is the situation of migrants, which is the sad result of the open borders policy of the late dictator muammar gaddafi. i hope that the libyan government may rely on the assistance of the european union in alleviating the situation, as well as on cooperation with international organisations and ngos. the unhcr would also be of great help if granted a legal status in libya. but it is most important for libya to ratify the 1951 un convention relating to the status of refugees and for the government to take full control over the external borders of the country and responsibility for the situation at hand.
in writing. the year 2012 was declared the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations and this report aims to provide a general overview of the current situation in europe with regard to the prevention of age-related diseases in women. the aim was, of course, to put forward proposals to improve the situation at both national and wider european level. after all, older women are known to have a higher incidence of cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, and cancer, and they are four times more likely to suffer from bone and joint disease than men. despite the longer life span, the number of years of healthy life is minimal compared to men. it is therefore clear that there is a need to increase the gender dimension in clinical trials. it is also regrettable that only 2 to 3% of the health budget is spent on prevention, and that is also for general illness. such statistics on prevention activities are almost non-existent. the availability of specialist medical care is a matter of great concern, and late diagnosis or unavailability of regular treatment is costly to health budgets and dangerous to health and life. the year of active ageing is drawing to a close, but that should not mean that our attention to the problem is going to end as well. the eu institutions will continue to work with national and local partners beyond the end of this year to disseminate prevention strategies to promote healthy lifestyles to the wider public.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which addresses crucial problems that seriously hinder the completion of the digital single market. 1. the commission has to map the obstacles that currently hinder cross-border service delivery and provide answers as to how to fix these problems. vat standardisation would help to overcome differences between tax systems. the building of trust between customers and businesses is urgently needed. origin and delivery addresses are still facing discriminatory practices which involve breaking single market rules in the digital sphere. 2. strong financial incentives need to be made available for innovative smes that develop new generation businesses, e-skills and the like. when deciding upon mff, the digital market sphere has to be seen as an integral part of europe’s future. 3. ultra-fast broadband connections should become available and accessible across europe in the shortest possible time, especially to enable smes to develop their businesses, but also to boost the eu’s global competitiveness.
in writing. - i voted for the report. we live in a time of great social, economic and technological events. digital developments have changed the business and economic environment considerably in recent years. the internet market has created a variety of opportunities for economic growth, job creation and price affordability. statistics show that the internet creates 2.6 jobs for every lost offline job, and in some countries, the internet accounts for up to 8 percent of gdp. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the digital single market and its implementation in the member states. one important reason is legal fragmentation, as cross-border internet is often regulated separately in each member state. the digital single market is creating opportunities for smes, which represent 99% of all businesses in the eu. opening the single market to e-commerce could benefit almost 1.7% of eu gdp. the current situation needs to be reformed and more specific policy proposals are needed as europe moves from the industrial age to a networked knowledge and services economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. while the eu is the biggest single market in the world, it is not big enough to retreat within its borders. boosting the internationalisation of smes is the key to increasing europe’s competitiveness in the global arena. smes face major obstacles in trying to expand their business activities beyond europe. firstly, they usually lack sufficient information, as well as adequate administrative and legal advice on clauses, trade agreements and negotiations. member states are urged to create single enterprise helpdesks at local level to assist entrepreneurs, in their native language, to obtain information and counselling services. secondly, many smes, especially msmes, face difficulties trying to borrow money from banks in order to start export business. officially supported export credits could provide guarantees and ease the procedure. financial incentives, loans, and access to capital should be tailor-made and avoid the one-size-fits-all approach. more and more diverse smes and msmes should have access to capital. thirdly, bureaucracy poses still the biggest problem for smes doing business at whatever level. registration and legal procedures burden the smes. the eu, together with member states, should map and assess existing rules and legislation, building on complementarity and concentrating on avoiding duplications.
in writing. − given that smes in the eu account for 75% of private sector jobs and have helped to create around 80% of all new jobs over the last five years, the role and support of smes is key to overcoming the economic crisis. despite the importance of smes as an economic engine for the eu, only 25% of smes operate outside the borders of their home member state and 13% export to markets outside the eu. the creation of an eu export-import fund (eu exim) is certainly essential to boost the competitiveness of smes by helping them to find new markets, especially as trade and foreign direct investment are now the sole competence of the eu. i supported this report, whose recommendations would help to revive the european economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the world goes digital and the eu also needs to face challenges related to this. new ideas reach millions in seconds and revolutions are generated online. the digital world provides a unique possibility to connect and have exchanges with anyone around the globe and fosters an incredible information flow. at the same time, authoritarian regimes attempt to control and restrict digital space in order to prevent their citizens from being informed and having contacts with the outer world. the eu has to step up its efforts in opposing in principle the introduction of politically motivated restrictions in digital space. it is our duty to actively support human rights activists and defenders of digital freedoms, insisting that authoritarian states stop such practices. russia, for example, has recently adopted legislation which authorises the state to ban certain websites. ironically, google and youtube, two most popular websites in the world, have been put on the banned list. what has the eu done in this regard? how can we proceed with trade negotiations if, in reality, russia defiantly legalises its violations of human rights? this applies also to russia’s wto commitments, as banning certain websites would negatively affect online business-making.
in writing. − i supported the adoption of this report, considering it important to ensure the sustainability of the georgian economy and to provide financial assistance for this purpose. unfortunately, georgia is left with its own problems in the south caucasus, and the european union is one of its few partners, especially since the country's priority is to join the european union. of course, in order for eu aid to achieve its objective, the financial assistance should be used for its intended purpose and the necessary monitoring should be ensured. it is good to see that georgia has managed to significantly strengthen the fight against corruption and the parliamentary elections showed that georgia is a democratic country that shares european values.
in writing. − the single european patent has been a long-awaited and urgently needed system for the european economy. the current european patent system is highly fragmented and expensive, and judgments are often contradictory. i supported this report because the proposed creation of a unitary patent protection system is inextricably linked to the creation of a unitary patent court. the single patent court will significantly reduce the cost of litigation by eliminating the need for parties to engage in parallel litigation in different countries. this will result in significant savings for european businesses. it is certainly essential that the parties are represented by lawyers with the necessary experience in both patent and procedural law.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the reports on european patent. the discussion over european patent is long overdue; the decisions should have been made years ago. this has been one of the lost opportunities to boost innovation and competitiveness. a unitary patent is needed to eliminate the counterproductive procedure which made the granting of the european patent conditional on parallel procedures in member states, and had to be formalised in the respective national languages. it resulted in extremely high costs and considerable delays, which deepened inequalities for smes. an agreed unitary patent will significantly reduce costs and ease filing the patents, becoming therefore more accessible for smes and individuals. an increase in registering european patents will hopefully invigorate eu competitiveness and contribute to european innovation as well. however, we still miss an all-european solution, as two member states have contested the creation of unitary patent.
in writing. − the eu-peru-colombia trade agreement procedure was launched a year ago and the anti-agreement arguments in favour of rejection have not changed during the year. it is time to move on and respect the will of the popularly elected parliaments to support the liberalisation of trade between the eu and peru and colombia. unreasonably high customs tariffs impede the development of a global free market economy and are unfair to developing countries in a situation where the eu provides the latter with a fair amount of external aid. as a liberal, i am all for giving people, figuratively speaking, a fishing rod to fish with, rather than confiscating their fishing gear and making them dependent on food shortages. however, recent political developments in peru and colombia show that these countries are moving towards democratic development, as evidenced by the removal of these countries from the so-called blacklist. the liberalisation of trade provided for in the fta is not a major threat to european industries and employment, as critics fear, as the agreement also provides for a bilateral safeguard clause, or backstop, in case the sustainability of some european industries is threatened. i supported this report.
in writing. - i was responsible for the alde group's handling of this report. everything that came out of the final vote today was acceptable to us and to me. the fact that no specific article or amendment was put to the vote in the chamber also speaks of the good cooperation in putting the report to the vote. i supported the adoption of the report as presented.
i naturally attach the utmost importance to ensuring that european union air transport is as efficient as possible in terms of passenger and freight transport, which will increase our economic capacity. at the same time, we must not make some companies, especially smaller airlines, worse off by new regulations. i would like to deal here with amendments 26 and 83 in the report on the airport hours directive. if the former has the support of the majority in the committee on transport and replaces the word 'successive' with 'regular', then amendment 83 would replace it. i agree with those who have spoken before that there are problems with the use of airport opening hours and that they are not being used as efficiently as they could be, so passengers are the ones who suffer the most, but we have to take account of all the parties involved. let me give you an example. there are 21 weeks in the winter, and the airline would like to use them. however, he must maintain the aircraft three times during that period. consequently, it can actually fly for 18 weeks and may therefore lose a large part of its service life, as they are not consecutive. this is particularly the case for smaller airlines, which already operate their aircraft at peak efficiency and do not have aircraft in reserve to replace those in service. i therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the concept of regularity in the airport hours directive.
in writing. − i support the granting of aid from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the retraining of workers in the italian two-wheeled motor vehicle industry, as the application meets the conditions for the use of the fund. the global financial and economic crisis and increased competition with asian producers have clearly had a negative impact, as shown by the significant decrease in the number of registrations of two-wheelers. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to obtain sufficient sales volumes to cover their costs of production. however, given the high level of consumer disappointment and the number of complaints about the poor quality of the indian and chinese production, it can be expected that in the future the consumer will still prefer the higher quality european production, as it is cheaper and less stressful for the consumer in the long run. this is also confirmed by the increase in sales of two-wheel motor vehicles in germany.
in writing. − i voted in favour of granting egf aid for the retraining of redundant workers at the swedish car manufacturer saab, which is predominantly export-dependent due to its small internal market. statistics show that the car production of the eu member states has decreased by almost 10% in recent years, as the bric (emerging markets china, india, etc.) car manufacturers are steadily increasing their market share. the swedish request is fully justified and the thousands of redundant workers in saab and its subsidiaries need european solidarity support. sadly, the global financial and economic crisis has brought bankruptcy to one of the best-known and most globally valued companies in the nordic region.
in writing. − i supported the granting of egf assistance to romania for the retraining of the 1904 nokia factory worker laid off, sympathizing with the families who lost their jobs and hoping for their early return to the labour market. this application fully complies with the conditions of the egf, as the production of mobile phones is directly linked to the global economy. statistics show that nokia's sales of mobile phones have decreased significantly in europe, but increased in asia, and therefore the logistical transfer of production is justified from the company's point of view. while nokia's decision to move its european production units to asia will certainly cause major social problems, in the longer term it will no longer be possible for this sector to compete with very cheap asian labour, especially as consumption has also increased dramatically there. europe must exploit its advantages, as germany does, which is focusing on quality rather than quantity, making it one of the world's largest exporters.
in writing. − for a small town of 25,000 inhabitants in finland, salo, the layoff of 1,000 people at the nokia plant was a major blow, as it was the main employer. having examined the request, i consider that the explanations of the finnish authorities are fully justified, since the production of mobile phones is directly linked to the global economy. unfortunately, given nokia's difficult economic situation and the loss of markets to competitors, the company cannot compete with the cheap labour in asia and operate logistically irrationally. i supported the request from finland to provide support from the egf for the redundancies of nokia salo, more than half of whom are women.
in writing. − common statistics across the eu are an essential basis for eu policy making in every field. in order to ensure comparability and quality of statistics between member states, a common methodology is needed to ensure the best possible results. unfortunately, the methodology for conducting such a survey set out in the draft regulation has raised a number of questions and i cannot understand the added value of the survey in terms of legal value, which is to pay eur 12 million for it. in view of the difficult economic situation in europe, our taxpayers' money must be handled with particular care, and i do not think we should spend so much on a survey if we are not sure of the quality and necessity of the result. for these reasons, i have decided to remain neutral.
in writing. − i supported this report, agreeing with the commission that existing airport capacity should be used as efficiently as possible, as the current timetable system is not optimal for airports with capacity constraints. however, i could not support amendment no 83, which sought to amend amendment no 26, which had already received majority support in the committee responsible. the commission notes that the estonian air has not provided any evidence that the state aid granted to estonian air would have been compatible with the internal market.
in writing. - i welcome the report as it stands. the recent history of the european union itself has shown the importance of coordinated statistics, the importance of transparency between countries, the importance of creating mutual trust among citizens and in the markets. i would even go so far as to say that reliable and coordinated statistics are one of the cornerstones of the european union's further cooperation and federalisation. we need to increase our efforts in this area.
in writing. − in view of the global economic crisis, the effects of which are still being felt, and the need to find additional funding for investments that would help to revive the european economy, i consider the introduction of a financial transaction tax to be of the utmost importance. the criticism of many banks in relation to this tax is, in my view, misplaced, since they were the ones who helped create the economic crisis and should share the responsibility with european taxpayers, who have already done enough. the purpose of the financial transaction tax is not to punish banks for helping to bring about the economic crisis, but i think it is fundamental that different services should be paid for. european taxpayers have given banks large subsidies to cope with the economic crisis and i think it is unfair that banks do not have to pay tax on financial transactions. for the reasons mentioned above, i also supported the relevant council decision providing for enhanced cooperation in the field of financial transaction taxation in order to ensure that the implementation of the tax fulfils its objectives. the commission's monitoring and assessment of the impact of the levy on the internal market is certainly important for achieving the objectives. of course, the most effective way to introduce a financial transaction tax would be to introduce it at a global level. the eu should therefore lead the efforts to reach an agreement on a global financial transaction tax and set an example by introducing a financial transaction tax.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. animals are and should be regarded as our fellow living beings. they should be viewed with compassion and with a sense of solidarity wherever it is possible with the goal of causing least suffering. as for me, i oppose slaughtering practices as well as keeping most animals in concentration camp conditions. the least one can do at this moment is to reduce their stress and panic during transportation to slaughterhouses. the current proposal does not offer concrete limitations on transportation schedules, and therefore it is highly desirable that more concrete proposals be advanced in future. however, this is not the solution for the universal problem of human treatment of animals.
in writing. − the report aims to improve the protection of animals at the time of their arrival at the slaughterhouse, and i support this objective. a key point of discussion in the report is paragraph 14, which calls for consideration of a limitation of animal transport to a maximum of eight hours. as regards point 14, i consider that the text of the current report should not be changed. this means that the maximum time for transporting the animals to slaughter should be limited to eight hours, taking into account the geographical conditions of the regions and unforeseen traffic delays. however, i think that the discussions are focusing too much on the transport season and not on the quality of the transport. there is a need to strengthen controls, in particular on the quality of animal welfare. the eight-hour limit has no scientific basis, but there should be a justification for such a limit. the readiness of member states to provide resting places for animals every eight hours should also be discussed.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the european union and its member states are committed to respect for human dignity, democracy, gender equality, human rights and the rule of law. while the current economic and financial crisis is taking up a lot of the attention of the member states and the eu institutions, we must not forget the commitments we have made and we must continue on the path of democracy and the rule of law. the economic crisis, which led to a shift away from democracy, led to a european catastrophe 80 years ago. we have created and developed the european union precisely to prevent similar horrors from happening again and to guarantee the fundamental rights of every european. the european commission must therefore pay more attention to a more balanced and self-critical monitoring of the charter of fundamental rights and we must ensure that programmes for fundamental rights and non-discrimination are not affected by cuts and the economic crisis. the european union must not be a law in these matters, but must ensure that all member states guarantee people's rights and avoid any discrimination.
in writing. – parliamentary scrutiny over the eu’s performance in protecting human rights in the world is essential to ensure that different aspects and nuances are taken into account by the vp/hr, the commission and the eeas. the call to mainstream human rights into all external actions of the union is not simply a ‘nice’ thing to say, but an effective tool to ensure that human rights will form the basis in external relations. religiously motivated violence is a growing menace in the world, especially in acute conflict regions in middle-east and africa. in particular christians find themselves in life-threatening situations. the vp/hr must become more vocal in and demand in all forms of human rights dialogues that religious minorities are protected and their right to practice their religion upheld. regrettably, the 2011 annual report mentions the sakharov prize only in a declaratory manner, not specifying if anything has been done, and if so what. the eeas and the commission need to stay in regular touch with both the candidates and laureates of the sakharov prize to ensure continuous dialogue and to monitor the human rights situation in the respective countries, offering moral and real protection to those acutely persecuted.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, honourable members, i want to congratulate the rapporteur, mr swoboda for this excellent report. it is very substantive and it is really timely and it gives me particular pleasure, as a former rapporteur on russia in this house, to replace the high representative tonight. while focusing on the negotiations on a new agreement the report, as the rapporteur says, also looks into the wider context and the best ways to promote eu interests and eu values in particular when it comes to rule of law and human rights. russia, as a member of the council of europe, as a member of oecd, has subscribed to those principles and, as discussed in the former debate, human rights and the rule of law are also extremely important in the eu policies and agreement. i am happy to note that the parliament supports the negotiations of a comprehensive forward-looking and legally binding new agreement which would allow furthering the development of relations with russia in the upcoming years. the recommendations in the report are well in line with our negotiating position and it is very good to be able to see this strong endorsement by parliament. as you all already know, we agreed in 2008 to put our relations on a solid basis of an updated and upgraded new agreement. the partnership and cooperation agreement for 1997 has served this purpose well as a bilateral framework for developing eu-russia relations over a number of years. however the european political and economic landscape has evolved and our relations with russia developed, our trade expanded and both we and russia felt that it was time to review and modernise the basis of our cooperation. at the summit in khanti mansiisk, in june 2008, we agreed that it was time to lay down legally binding foundations for this relationship and we then launched negotiations. the agreement should cover all areas of our engagement: security, research, enterprises, customs, judiciary and human rights and given the central place of trade in cooperation with russia, the agreement has naturally to include substantial legally binding commitments on trade and investment. between july 2008 and december 2010 there have been twelve rounds of negotiations: good progress has been achieved in all areas with the exception of trade and investment. here the progress has been marred by the reluctance on the russian side. now after four and a half years the diverging views regarding the trade and investment chapter has led to a difficult stalemate, and for the eu an agreement without solid trade investment and energy provisions is simply not an interesting option. so we need to get this right. we are not aiming for a preferential agreement with market access commitment going beyond what russia has agreed in the wto. what we do need however is an agreement which would facilitate trade and investment, which would support the modernisation of the russian economy; this would help our businesses to do more in russia and to do it without unnecessary bureaucratic efforts. to achieve this in the interests of both sides we need to have enough critical mass on trade, investment and energy. here regulatory convergence is crucial; for example, alignment with technical regulation, fairness, transparency in agricultural trade, clear entry conditions in government procurement markets, transparent rules of competition, intellectual property rights and customs procedures are all in our mutual interests. in the energy sector it is in our mutual interests to lay down the basis of closer contact between our regulators and network operators and to establish common basic market principles which can help us to make serious progress on developing a strategic energy partnership. let me stress in this regard that we are negotiating an agreement with the russian federation. recently, we have heard suggestions from a russian colleague saying that, given the fast advancement of the customs union between russia, kazakhstan and belarus, we should change our negotiation track and start to negotiate parts of the agreement with the customs union and not russia. let me be very clear on this; the eu is not prepared at this time to step into any legal contractual relationship with a customs union, particularly as two of its members are not even members of the wto. we are prepared at this point to conclude negotiations and to sign an agreement with russia alone, and this is not an easy process, but we need to conclude an agreement worthy of our strategic partnership. our people, our business and our investors expect this from us. now let me say a few important words on the political context, in which negotiations are taking place. as very rightly emphasised both in the report and the speech by mr swoboda, a strategic partnership must be based on shared values, including democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. we are well aware that we have been observing political developments in russia over the last month with increasing concern, and mr swoboda’s speech and report is a reminder of a continuously worrying trend in russia which seems to be aimed at limiting the scope of action of civil society organisations. the high representative/vice-president ashton has been vocal and unambiguous in several statements over the last month regarding the general domestic situation in russia, on the recently introduced restrictive legislation and on individual cases like the magnitsky investigation and the pussy riot trial. on 11 september 2012, the high representative commented extensively here in parliament on the political use of justice in russia, echoing many of the concerns that have been raised in this house. we have on many occasions reiterated our serious concerns over the worsening situation for civil society in russia, for grassroots civil society movements, for human rights ngos and for election monitoring organisations. it is in our economic interests to have an economically successful, modern and democratic russia at our borders. we therefore welcome russia’s wto accession and expect its full compliance with the new obligations. we stand ready to support russia in its reform efforts, working closely together in the partnership for modernisation, the full integration into the international rules-based system, and the development of citizens’ rights and freedoms, which must be the basis for shared stability and prosperity. the external action service and the commission pursue a consistent approach in promoting the rule of law, respect for human rights and participation of civil society as integral parts of the eu-russia relationship. these themes are embedded in all the activities and many commissioners are involved here in the partnership for modernisation, human rights consultations, visa and migration issues as well as in our financial cooperation, and this will be strongly embedded in our new agreement as well. let me just conclude with the upcoming eu-russia summit next week. together with different mobility and energy issues, the new agreement will be one of the main subjects on the agenda. the sources of concern prominently described in the report and discussed here today will also be raised. russia is our third most important trading partner and is also an indispensable partner when it comes to ensuring security on our continent and to tackling a number of global challenges. at the summit we therefore need to strike the right balance between an open and honest exchange of views on unresolved issues and unsatisfactory developments on the one hand, and offering constructive engagement on common interests and pressing challenges on the other.
the draftsman of the opinion of the international trade committee. − in my view, a strategic partnership is one in which the partners share a common understanding of values. unfortunately, what we have seen recently in russia does not suggest that there could be a convergence of our values - neither in the field of human rights nor in the field of democratisation. on trade, i would point out that almost half a year after joining the world trade organisation, russia still does not fully implement international trade rules and continues to apply economic sanctions. i would like to see a section on trade in services and investment in the new agreement, which would include a dispute settlement mechanism, because we need to maximise the protection of our entrepreneurs. there must be a clear energy division to ensure against unfair tariffs. i would also like to emphasise that in my view, visa liberalisation is absolutely premature, as the functioning of previous visa facilitation arrangements has not yet been assessed. as far as i know, the number of immigrants coming to us from russia is absolutely disproportionate to how we can go to russia. the registration is also still valid. i would also like to say that under no circumstances should visa liberalisation be allowed to apply to those who are in any way involved in human rights violations, as was the case with magnitsky. this is what we have to continue to work towards, and only then can we talk about strategic partnership.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, on behalf of the alde group, i would also like to thank mr swoboda for his very good work on this report on russia. five years ago expectations were high when eu-russia agreement negotiations were launched. today not much is left of that enthusiasm for a strategic partnership that obliges us to share the responsibility for the destiny of the continent. next week yet another eu-russia summit is taking place in brussels but no breakthrough is expected. it looks as though time has stood still and we are doomed to walking in circles discussing the same issues over and over again. at the same time the number of issues that divide us grows. for example, dialogues on trade that just a few months ago were looked upon with optimism are now looking darker. after 18 years of negotiations we are puzzled by the kremlin’s reluctance to live up to their wto standards. the magnitsky case is an example of the refusal of the kremlin to respect its own engagement towards the russian people and the international community. the human rights situation continues to deteriorate and cases of political persecution are not uncommon anymore. the bolotnaya process is unfolding before our eyes. the disappearances of people go on in north caucasus, forcing their families to turn to the strasbourg court. we try to help fight corruption and enhance the rule of law but our gestures of goodwill are continuously misinterpreted. this very house has issued a number of appeals to the russian authorities, putting forward our sincere hopes and demands to get russia back to the way that was chosen by the russian people in 1992, namely the democracy and modernisation of the country. today we have to be consistent in standing for our european values. we have to continue to support the russian people who are hoping for a better future. at the same time, in the name of our democratic engagements, i call on you to support mr swoboda’s report and also alde’s amendment 6 on conditionality on visa facilitation and liberalisation.
mr president, the commissioner’s earlier report on russia still sets the standard and looks fresh, but i would like to comment on my colleague mr swoboda’s report as well. i think there are at least three important messages to deliver. one is that we need to be realistic and not count only on finding similarities. we need to promote the eu’s interests and values in areas where interests also diverge. how to do this is a practical question. secondly, regarding reciprocity: a partnership can only function if both sides agree to follow universal democratic principles. and we should send the concrete message that full compliance with the wto rules is a precondition and minimum standard for any agreement with the eu. as usual the devil is in the detail. the eu itself should first agree about the definition of these preconditions and minimum standards. this is the eu’s first task and has been its major weakness so far. thirdly, we should become more realistic about russia’s historic conceptual and moral tradition – let us say, continuity. 85 years ago lenin said that international treaties are like piecrust: made to be broken. so we need to face this real existing conceptual and immoral continuity – trying to help change it. this is our first task.
in writing. today we celebrated the nobel peace prize and on this remarkable day we are also discussing the russian report. the european union has won the peace prize for this. the fact that we have been able to produce a stable europe since the second world war is a remarkable achievement. our goal must be to expand the stability area as much as possible. the views of our largest neighbor, russia, are of utmost importance. insofar as it is essentially interested in good neighbourly relations with the european union and insofar as it has in fact adopted a position of a great power dictating conditions to other neighbours. our goal must be to get along well with all our neighbors. i call on russia to be more open here.
we've talked a lot today about elections in ukraine, about selective prosecution. we are seriously interested in further developing relations with ukraine. the interest is mutual. unfortunately, the signing of the treaty between us has been postponed. the european union is conditioned on taking the necessary steps in the field of the rule of law. rule of law is measured by more parameters than the electoral system. it also involves economic reforms and economic integration. and that's not what we've been talking about today. this is another area where we need to pay attention, where we need to make a contribution. ukraine is interested in foreign investments in its country, but has so far done little to protect them from criminal takeovers. things are very seriously wrong if investors in the european union consider even russia to be a less risky country to invest in than ukraine. we in the european parliament and commissioner füle must also give this area serious attention and support. while supporting association, we must also support and encourage steps along this path.
in writing. − i supported this report, considering it important that the eu member states should reach a consensus on the negotiations for a new agreement with russia, so that the eu could speak with one voice and with certainty. unfortunately, however, the practice to date has shown russia's desire to deal directly with the major european countries, leaving aside the interests of smaller member states such as the baltic states. it is a sad fact that the russian federation is selectively implementing the agreements - this is also evidenced by its accession to the wto, whose rules are not being respected. despite the fact that the baltic states supported russia's accession to the wto, various trade restrictions are still applied to the baltic states, such as the ban on imports of live animals, which formally applies to the whole of the eu but essentially concerns mainly estonia, latvia and lithuania. the promotion of economic cooperation between the eu and the russian federation is beneficial and important for both sides, but we must not forget european values such as the safeguarding of human rights and the functioning of democracy, which is why we must closely monitor the behaviour of the russian authorities towards the opposition and minorities. the recent changes, with the persecution of opposition representatives and attempts to assimilate the indigenous finno-ugric minority into the russian population, are certainly worrisome.
in writing. - i supported the adoption of a resolution on israel in general. i support the creation and existence of two states, israel and palestine. but i cannot agree with the claims that israel is building new settlements in the west bank. this is the area that was already in israeli hands as a result of bilateral negotiations under the auspices of us president bill clinton. israel has not only the right, but also the obligation to protect its citizens from hamas rocket attacks. i support the motion for a resolution on the negotiating position of the two countries concerned.
in writing. - i supported the adoption of the resolution on the situation in ukraine. the european parliament's comments on the shortcomings in the rule of law in ukraine and its proposals are based on the desire to bring ukraine into the family of democratic european rule of law. ukraine is a strategic partner for us, and today our interests in association are aligned.
in writing. − ukraine is certainly a subject close to my heart as an estonian elected representative. we're connected by our history as members of the soviet union. i think that ukraine must continue its efforts towards european integration. ukraine is a country of great potential belonging to the family of european nations. it is deeply regrettable that the elections held have raised a number of unanswered questions about the violations that have occurred. and i hope that in the course of the further proceedings, the questions which have so far been left unanswered, such as the investigation of the violations in the single-mandate constituencies, will be resolved.
author. − mr president, commissioner, the conflicts which have taken the lives of hundreds of thousands of innocent people have turned the democratic republic of congo into a war zone where warlords and corrupt officials are the only ones benefiting from the situation. unfortunately, international support has not delivered the expected results. the un peacekeeping mission has been going on for thirteen years. each year usd 1.5 billion have been allocated to this project, but we have not seen any improvement yet. the m23 movement is definitely not the first of its kind, and is unlikely to be the last. i believe that building a democratic society requires strong political will and ambitious vision on the part of political leaders, governments and opposition politicians with a view to building political institutions to guarantee fundamental rights. unfortunately this is not the case yet in congo.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this resolution attacks the caste discrimination that is unfortunately widespread and persistent and affects millions of people in india. the indian government needs to step up its efforts in order to ensure that this discrimination comes to an immediate end. the country’s 200 million or so dalits continue to suffer appalling forms of violence. murder, rape and other crimes are committed against them with impunity. according to a 2011 thomson reuter trustlaw survey, india was one of the five most dangerous places in the world for a woman to live. these facts are horrific, and therefore i support the call for the commission to prioritise programmes addressing caste discrimination.
