mr prime minister, ... (the speaker began his speech without a microphone and had to start again from the beginning.) i would like to say that, according to the surveys, denmark is indeed home to the happiest people in the world, and it would be great if you could, during this presidency, transfer even a little of that happiness to the mistrust in europe. the presidency usually sets so many priorities that nothing is a priority in the end. the same applies to these european union anniversaries, which often disappear without a trace. the union is currently celebrating the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations. this is also a very important economic issue. extending working hours and ensuring the sustainability of pension systems are also economic issues - they are human dignity issues, but they are also economic issues of great importance. because it is true that ageism has now reached a new level in the european union and in all the member states, precisely because of this economic recession. we have, however, some excellent examples of active ageing: jacques delors, helmut schmidt and so on. make this a priority.
in writing. the danish presidency is expected to be difficult. it is facing challenges, not least because of the recession and economic crisis that are sweeping europe. the danish presidency would like to be seen as a pioneer in a greener european energy future. this is a big deal. unfortunately, it's bound to meet its demise at the very beginning. the eyes of politicians and citizens will undoubtedly be on the economic recovery. denmark is an opt-out country outside the euro, in an awkward position when it comes to debates on citizenship, defence policy or justice and home affairs. denmark is not itself a party to these. in 2011, the european economic crisis remained unsolved. a more serious political crisis also began. the economic and stability union must now be created outside the eu, without the commission's right of initiative and the democratic control of the european parliament. there is nothing wrong with the danish presidency programme. the four-priority sustainable growth programme aims at a more responsible, dynamic, green and secure europe. i am sincerely hopeful for 2012 and wish denmark every success in its presidency.
in writing. - i have been amazed at the enthusiasm with which the economic agreement, which was launched with great fanfare at the eu summit in december, is being worked on in the halls and corridors of brussels. but the agreement is becoming irrelevant in the current crisis. the name of the treaty is also recorded as having changed several times along the way. i must correct my colleague: finland has not yet formally adopted a position on the economic agreement. our foreign minister erkki tuomioja - not prime minister jyrki katainen - made his own position known at the beginning of the week and proposed that finland should remain outside the agreement. in finland, the biggest problem was the possible unconstitutionality of the agreement. however, the contract negotiations are still ongoing. in the end, i do not think that the uk will be the only member state to be excluded. the most problematic is not the content of the agreement, which is a welcome addition to the economic and budgetary rules of the game agreed in the 1990s, which most eu countries have not been able, willing or willing to adhere to. the problem is bypassing the parliamentary system. the only directly elected institution in europe, the european parliament, has been left out of the attempts to solve the economic crisis. i do not think that the european parliament should be ignored. perhaps after that we can concentrate on the real issue, namely correcting the current economic situation and restoring the confidence of the citizens and the markets.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i join in congratulating the commissioner on his performance in durban. from a diplomatic point of view, durban was a breakthrough, the continental plates were shifting. as has already been said in this debate, the scientifically agreed timetable is far too slow to prevent the catastrophic acceleration of climate change. in durban, the eu got almost everyone else to agree to take further steps. now is the time to step up the level of our own climate action. the ipcc calls on industrialized countries to reduce emissions by at least 25% by 2020. our law says only 20 percent. we need to tighten our emissions targets. we need to eliminate the hot air in kyoto. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's forestry sector is not left behind. quartz and other dirty new fossil sources must be treated as dirty as they are. the emissions from shipping are going to be a smoking gun. in short, we must step up our own response to the fact that the world is not allowed to warm by more than two degrees.
mr president, commissioner, i too would like to congratulate you on your excellent contribution to the durban meeting. of course, as has been said here, we can only be satisfied once we have a global agreement. this is certainly something we as the european union should strive for and encourage others to do. i want to raise one particular point, one particular concern. now, in this new climate agreement, the possibility of compensating for emissions from deforestation is being eliminated, and this is a very worrying development, especially for the forest-rich european countries. in the past, for example, emissions have been offset by the carbon footprint of forests, which is indeed huge in these forested countries. for example, in my own country, finland, 85 percent of the land is forested and the forest is well managed. the annual growth of the forest is 10 million cubic metres greater than the annual decay. this is going to hit these countries really hard. i hope that somehow we can still make changes to this.
mr president, i fully share the concern expressed by mr manner about the way in which carbon stocks are calculated. i'm not talking about it anymore. i am surprised that we in europe think that a kyoto strategy with emission ceilings is the only way to save the climate. well, it certainly isn't, in light of the results, so i'm wondering why we're still holding onto it. looking at the statistics, it is clear that the us, for example, has reduced its emissions more effectively than the eu, which has committed to kyoto, over the last decade. the us and the big emitters have abandoned this model, as have japan, russia, australia and, most recently, canada, which has justified its withdrawal by citing the inefficiency of kyoto. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels and bioliquids. we didn't save anything of any consequence in durban. we saved a model we desperately cling to. but that model doesn't have global support. only nine countries are on the same page as the eu in reducing emissions. kyoto covers 15% of global emissions. shouldn't this be a wake-up call for this house to demand real results? now that we are looking for a new common agreement for all, the eu must give up its own obsessions. so we need something more comprehensive, something better. that is what can be called an effective policy.
mr president, commissioner, this has indeed been discussed many times during this parliamentary term. now, if we look at the results, what's happened? it is certainly good that this is being discussed, but i really hope that now, in the context of this cap reform, we will be able to tackle this problem. it is clear that in many countries of the european union trade is highly concentrated and has contributed to the disadvantages of farmers' incomes and, on the other hand, has also put them in a bad light in these price negotiations. we must strengthen the position of farmers in the negotiating situation and, on the other hand, ensure a more stable income generation. the bové report was also excellent. it is clear that the production inputs have also increased significantly and this should also be able to be taken into account in the prices. i hope that this too can be addressed in the context of the cap reform.
in writing. mr president, the european space strategy must serve both the economy and basic research. it is therefore essential that, in addition to the glorious implementation of flagship projects such as galileo, there should be a sufficient investment in basic research, which is an unquestionable investment in the future. it is not in the interests of european values and dignity to remain a free-lancer in science. space exploration is a privilege, perhaps even a duty, for mankind to discover the universe in which it lives, and europe must set an example. however, it is clear that the money invested in research must be correlated with the added value of the research to science. the cost-effectiveness of projects must therefore be taken into account, and international cooperation and division of labour must be agreed with other relevant actors. the security policy importance of an autonomous satellite positioning system cannot be overstated. it is essential for border guard, crisis management, military and disaster relief forces to have access to location information regardless of the global political situation. however, cooperation with nato, and in particular with the united states, on gps should be continued, while keeping open the possibility of partial coordination of systems. europe has excellent starting points for space exploration: an educated population, a launch site close to the equator and a strong base of values. it just lacks, as in so many other respects, the sufficient open-mindedness and initiative to be in its rightful place on the world scale.
in writing. mr president, it seems incredible that up to 50% of food in europe is wasted. meanwhile, more than a billion people worldwide suffer from hunger. consumers must be able to buy food in small packages. also, it is advisable to eat close to home, so that food does not spoil on the way to the store. local food benefits both the consumer and the producer. local food is fresh, safe and domestic. it also supports the vitality of the local area. we prefer local food.
in writing. i am pleased that we in the eu are finally paying more attention to a key food policy issue: food waste. the present report sums up very well the main problems associated with food waste. it is not just an ethical challenge, but food waste has clear links to agricultural reform, social justice and hunger. it is obvious to all of us that it is a completely absurd situation that 30 to 50 percent of food, depending on the estimate, ends up in waste. and most of all, as waste that is not recovered in any way. the report now before us, which calls for the halving of food waste by 2025, is extremely important and i fully support it. but as we consider ways to reduce waste, both at the production stage and at the consumer, we must keep the bigger picture in mind. agricultural policy is food policy. i hope that the adoption of this report will enable us to think together about the ways and means of monitoring the overall assessment of the kind of food policy we are promoting. reducing food waste is a key part of this mission. the report's 'european year against food waste 2013' would be a good opportunity for us to embark on a more sustainable food policy.
i am afraid, mr president, that the eu is again creating rules that nobody is even supposed to follow. this is the same rule as when it was decided that europe was the most competitive region in the world in 2010. i do not think that the member states will achieve the 0.5% deficit target. at this stage, i think the most important thing would have been to have a programme, how to achieve this, and to have a focus on maintaining growth and employment. the eu has not paid attention to how to abolish tax havens. how would taxes be collected in the member states? we need real action like this now.
i consider this parliament's position to be extremely important. because it is one of the fundamental principles of the european union that legislation is drawn up, prepared and implemented in accordance with the normal community procedure, which guarantees transparency and a democratic process. if for political reasons it has been necessary to go so far as to make member states, in principle, move in an uneven way, it is extremely important that we get the implementation into normal community legislation. we have both the six-pack and the deficit legislation under consideration in parliament. this is the way to achieve what the member states want in the normal legislative procedure.
i warmly support this legislation, which is a practical means of achieving the objectives pursued by the commission and the european union as a whole in the resource efficiency map and the raw materials strategy. at the same time, we are facing a glaring shortage of key raw materials, especially precious metals, and of global resources in general. we need the practical tools, like electronic waste recycling, to make these strategies work in practice.
mr president, just as resource efficiency and the recycling of electronic waste are related, so too is the question of how more than half of the food produced is wasted, both globally and within the european union. i warmly support this very good report, which is based on the fact that we need measures at every step of the production chain, starting with what is produced and how. where do they make it? how do we get it? what type of agricultural system is supported? and how food chains, restaurants and public procurement support the fairest possible use of high-calorie capital and healthy food across europe, while supporting biodiversity goals and also reducing the climate impact of food production.
mr. speaker, (speaker begins without a microphone) ...of your selection as vice president number one. i too voted in favour of the report on the prevention of food waste. at the same time, with almost 80 million eu citizens living below the poverty line, struggling to make a living, and more than 900 million people worldwide suffering from malnutrition, here in europe, nearly 180 kilograms of food waste accumulate per person per year. i weigh 120 pounds. as regards food waste, the waste of edible food in particular is completely unsustainable from an ecological, economic and also ethical point of view. if edible food is thrown away, the environmental impact of raw materials and food processing is also completely unnecessary. it is also economically irrational to forgo edible food. so it's like throwing money straight into the trash.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of updating the weee legislation, as i remember very well when we worked on this legislation in the second term. my colleague florenz was also a rapporteur at that time and i would like to congratulate him on this successful follow-up to this important subject. the report was one of the most important achievements of this parliament's term of office and it is good that it is now being updated. the reform of the law has led to an increase in the repair and recycling of electronic equipment, whereas in the past this was practically possible. as i said in the previous weee debate, this is precisely how the implementation of environmentally friendly product design and thus the operation of the whole directive is ensured. the costs of the final stages of the equipment are minimised in advance, ensuring that the minimum amount of waste is generated and the minimum amount of waste to be recycled. the whole chain - producers, importers, traders, consumers, waste management and recycling organisations and public authorities - thus plays a part in this responsibility. just as it should be.
two years ago, in the context of the nato strategic concept, there was a lot of discussion about the removal of tactical nuclear weapons from european soil. there were also discussions about removing russian tactical nuclear weapons on the other side of the border. are the european union and your office taking any initiatives or are you involved in any initiatives about the reduction of tactical nuclear weapons either in europe or in russia?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the green group expresses its great concerns at the tense situation in the gulf region and supports the new eu sanctions against iran. many of us, however, are also very concerned at the possible negative effects on the iranian population. parliament’s opinion has always been that there cannot be a military solution to a nuclear conflict with iran. we should not leave any ambiguity about this question and the greens have proposed an amendment to this effect. the eu has a dual-track approach to sanctions and negotiations. sanctions have been enforced. now it is time for negotiations. the question is: how can we open up for negotiations? the iranians have said they are willing, and i think one of the things the eu has to accept is that the iranians will not suspend all uranium enrichment as a precondition for sanctions. we strongly urge all parties to negotiate seriously and without preconditions. iran and the west have taken turns in rejecting each other’s offers for compromise, and several opportunities have been missed because the phases of goodwill between e3+3 and iran were not synchronised. i hope this will not be the case in the future. we would also like to see turkey and brazil involved in the negotiations. they were proposing compromises in this respect and would be good partners to have included. if we manage to continue negotiations, this could then open a new historical window to the nuclear-weapon-free middle east. the eu should support actively this un conference and be helpful in setting a road map for this process. the greens think that the eu should also set a good example and give up nuclear energy, as germany has decided. the example of iran clearly shows there is no way to clearly separate nuclear activities for civilian uses and the use of the same technologies for military aims. as a goodwill gesture showing the eu’s readiness for dialogue, we should finally open an eu representation in tehran and iran should receive security guarantees, as it is very difficult to bring a country to the negotiating table under a permanent threat of war.
for the alde group mr president, first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs saryusz-wolsk, on having, if not now, moved the stones, then at least moved the stones in the foreign office, as lady ahston said, and that is a lot. the brics countries brazil, russia, india, china and south africa do not operate as a tightly knit bloc in international arenas, but their mutual cooperation has an impact on international negotiations, agendas and outcomes, including at g20 meetings. in the un and the security council, they may operate a little bit more separately. the brics countries are therefore able to influence the agenda and priorities of the negotiations very often, and this has sometimes weakened the position of the eu and the pursuit of our own objectives. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the eu is now able to develop strategic partnership programmes, and it is good that lady ashton is visiting brazil and other countries next week. it is urgent to develop these relations, and it is right to do so if these countries are considered as separate and are dealt with in accordance with their own history and present situation. they don't form a block, although they do sometimes work together. the eu must urgently cooperate with these countries too and must give very careful thought to its priorities.
mr president, i consider this report to be extremely timely, particularly given the restrictive measures recently adopted against iran. the european parliament should continuously maintain a high-level debate on the very idea of restrictive measures and their effectiveness or ineffectiveness in achieving the eu’s fundamental objectives of international stability, peace and democracy. firstly, the report recommends that the council develop clear criteria for when restrictive measures are to be applied, and objectives for such measures. in the case of the embargo on iran, this is exactly what we need. secondly, the report is very explicit about the prerequisite that sanctions should not harm the population. this also is important in the case of iran. the last thing we need is for the iranian people to consider the eu its enemy. finally, i would like to point out that a coherent policy within the eu’s borders is a necessity. i have heard today from a lecturer who contacted the delegation for relations with iran to say that he has had eur 900 frozen by the bank of austria, while the maltese times has got in touch with me to say that iran has eur 2 billion invested in malta which is not going to be frozen.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate you on your election as president, and i am glad that we have such a sporting president in this parliament too. i would also like to thank mr santiago fissa for the good report and the commissioner who has done a very good job in this area of sport in the commission. it is true that sport is the largest popular movement in europe. it must be talked about and it is important that it also be given a clear role in the european union. now that the legal basis has been established, it is important to move on to concrete action models. this report gives a good indication of the direction to be taken through sport, because we know the health effects of sport, we know the other social effects of sport, both in terms of well-being and in terms of integrating people into society. we also know how important sport is in our fight against racism and many other negative aspects at european level. it is also important to take care of finances. i would like to stress in this connection that i hope, of course, that the budgetary framework will provide sufficient funds for the financing of sport to enable us to go there at grassroots level, but it is also important to take care of national monopolies. in finland, the betting industry is a good example of how it finances activities at grassroots level. it will be needed in the future. finally, on the question of flags, which has been raised very strongly by the british people: it does not matter to anyone if the flags in the european union are blown up. and you don't have to put it on your uniform. but perhaps the biggest news for me today was when nuttall spoke about football and he said that countries should be fanatical, that britain would also be playing as its own team in the future, under one british flag. i have to say, this is a surprising new insight, and i feel very welcome.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr iturgaiz anguloa, on his excellent report. indeed, between 2004 and 2010, the committee on petitions received a total of 114 petitions dealing exclusively with procedures that infringe eu waste legislation. this is a sign that the issue is topical and that it is of real concern to the public. the european union's member states have very different waste management policies, and we should be able to intervene more closely in this area. the deadline for the implementation of the waste framework directive expired in 2010 and only six member states have been able to implement it, so citizens' concerns need to be taken very seriously. you also have to remember that waste is opportunity. as has been said, waste is a resource and the development of waste management will certainly create many new jobs and improve the resource efficiency of the european union.
in writing. i warmly support the idea of establishing a special representative for women, peace and security in the eu's external relations administration, as recommended in the report on the situation of women in war voted today. this would help the external relations department to mainstream the gender perspective into foreign policy, especially when it comes to wars and conflicts. at present, less than 10% of peace negotiators are women, even though peace is a matter for all men and women. war and conflict affect women in many ways. one of the most brutal ways is sexual violence as a form of warfare. it affects everything: the victim's physical and mental health and family relationships, the victim's entire future. in most cases, the perpetrators go unpunished. instead, the victim lives with it for the rest of his life. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs norica nicolaita, for a good and necessary report. i hope that the foreign affairs committee will also give this report careful consideration.
mr president, it is very important that we have a debate on this humanitarian aid issue. it is clear that we europeans, as prosperous societies, want to be in a position to support the underdeveloped countries and thereby bring them a good and decent life. but it is very important to ensure that when we act as europeans we implement projects which are in line with the values of the european union and are thus ethically sustainable. first of all, we must take democracy, human rights and freedom of expression and ensure that all these projects have a strong european spirit and values. that's why it's good that we're having this conversation. i voted in favour of this report, but we still have more to do in this sector, because there are some examples of the fact that these ethical principles have not been fully implemented in all our eu projects.
mr president, parliament has stated that the economic agreement agreed at the summit was almost unnecessary and would not help us to overcome the crisis. i think that parliament could have also said that the summit was unnecessary, as have many other recent summits. these meetings should be prepared well, not as a show by a few large member states and their leaders, but in such a way that they produce results which are committed to and implemented. now france has immediately announced that this will be done only after the elections. this is not acceptable. i would also have liked to see more emphasis on growth and employment in that parliament's opinion and in the summit in particular. it should absolutely include the banning of tax havens. i would like the eu to be more active in this area and to leave the eurobonds aside.
mr president, in its resolution parliament has expressed its concern about iran's nuclear programme and we have supported the sanctions. my group, like myself, is very wary of these sanctions because i fear that they will strengthen the iranian regime and thus defeat its purpose. after all, the iranian leadership needs some kind of enemy to be strong and to appear strong, and i fear that now we have fallen into this trap. but there is still room for negotiation and discussion, even though we know that iran is not an easy negotiating partner and has not been reliable. sometimes it's good to put yourself in the other person's shoes. iran is the former persia, and it's proud of its history and considers itself a civilized nation, which is what it is in the light of history. i am afraid that sanctions will hurt the iranian people's pride and will soon do the opposite of what we all hope for: negotiations, peace and the abandonment of nuclear weapons.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution. it is clear that the european union and the international community must send an ever clearer message to iran that we will not accept their nuclear weapons programme. it is true that the speeches made by mr ahmadinejad at the un and elsewhere in the world are so provocative that they must be answered. we must stand up straight and clear in this as europe. we must also be in the middle east to support the only democracy in the middle east, israel, which is particularly threatened by this iran, as we know from the speeches of ahmadinejad, in which he has threatened to wipe israel off the map of the world. but not only israel as a bastion of democracy in the middle east, but also the whole of europe and the western world, the free world, the democratic world, is threatened, and that is why we must act very strongly and decisively to ensure that iran is prepared to abandon this programme. unfortunately, i think that sanctions are the way to go, but of course we must also continue the discussions.
i would like to say, mr president, that i voted in favour of this report by mr fisas ayxela. we must remember that this is the first major report on sport, and sport is the largest popular movement in the whole of the european union. this is the first step, and that is why i am a little disappointed that the friends of the ecr on the right are looking only at threats and not at opportunities. let us now read this a little more carefully: this offers great opportunities for the advancement of sport, for the improvement of public health, for the promotion of welfare at the level of the european union, and so on. small things like the flag - whether it is on the inside or outside of the shirt, which is entirely voluntary - or whether there is a european union flag in the stands at a sporting event are not big issues here. i am not going to go into the details of the vote, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commissioner has taken this decision. on the contrary, this is just an attempt to involve european citizens, people at the grassroots level who are interested in sport, in active citizenship, to build their own member state first, but it also shows up as a common benefit in the european internal market if we have healthy, well-off workers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which is important in principle, because i cannot accept the nutrition claim 'now contains x % less [nutrient]'. the labelling shall not be misleading or ambiguous. this is particularly true of food. the nutrition claim 'now contains x % less [nutrient]' is questionable, as it allows the nutritional value of the product to be compared only with the previous version of the product. the starting level of the nutrient is not taken into account. the risk is that a product that is actually very unhealthy is made to sound healthy. the claim 'now contains x % less [nutrient]' is rather a marketing promotion and does not add value to consumer information. nutrition claims such as 'light' and 'reduced [name of nutrient]' are already available on the market. the proposed nutrition claim would only cause further confusion among consumers. it is of paramount importance for consumers that product labelling is truthful and clearly understandable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which is of fundamental importance. the intergovernmental agreement that has just been signed is not the answer to the current crisis in europe. a premature contract can be described in three words: unnecessary, ineffective and false. fortunately, the agreement is ineffective, as it could have done more harm than good. despite the declaration on growth adopted at the eu summit, europe lacks concrete solutions to overcome the current recession and economic crisis. the european parliament, representing 500 million citizens of europe, is not a party to this agreement. such action does not unite europe, but rather further divides it. even so, parliament was active and was able to influence almost every aspect of the agreement. i am not opposed to fiscal discipline in europe, but i would like to see a debate on responsibility, growth and jobs. the agreement on stability, coordination and governance which has been reached is not a representative of european parliamentarism. it would perhaps be more appropriate to speak of an 'eu2' agreement. the threat is to displace the european parliament instead of the national parliaments. it is time to look ahead and to consider ways of dealing with the present crisis: europe needs growth, jobs and socially sustainable development!
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, the single euro payments area is basically a good project, which i am sure we can support in this parliament on an exceptional scale. it is much more convenient for citizens and especially for businesses to have access to a single payment information point throughout europe, and direct debits and electronic invoicing will be easier than they are now. this is one of the most fundamental aspects of building a functioning internal market. however, the practical problem has been that, once again, some countries have been more effective than others in implementing joint decisions. as long as only a part of the system is implemented, it will not be of much use, its basic idea will not be realized and the desired savings will not be generated. in fact, the system is even a minor inconvenience for citizens of countries which have already implemented the reform, because in my own country, finland, for example, citizens are now forced to use longer account numbers than before, which means that it is harder to remember their account numbers by heart. there has been a small sacrifice from citizens to introduce the system and when foreign payments were supposed to be made as easy as domestic payments, in reality domestic payments have become as difficult as foreign payments. the reform must not be left half-way, and its completion must not be rushed, lest the trouble it has caused be wasted. for these reasons, i support the line that the transitional periods for the introduction of the system must be uniform and as short as possible.
mr president, commissioner, you have raised an important issue, namely counterfeiting. if you'll allow me, i'd like to extend this service directive issue to the current acta issue. the eu has just concluded an international agreement that has been heavily criticised. it's a very secret negotiation. does commissioner barnier see acta as striking a balance between the protection of trademarks and the individual rights of internet users? i think this is related to the subject under discussion. i'm gonna repeat the question because there was a little disturbance. is this acta agreement, which is now being negotiated, a good balance between the protection of trademarks and the individual rights of internet users?
commissioner, i have a further question. you said this was a discussion, and you sort of denounced this discussion. the president of the european parliament, martin schulz, has just criticised this acta agreement for being unbalanced. how would you answer him?
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of the report by my esteemed colleague, mr sari essayahi, on the technical requirements for credit transfers and direct debits in euro, as it is high time that the rules for crossborder payments within the eu were also harmonised. we have made considerable progress in the area of eu integration, in the free movement of goods and people, but perhaps one of the simplest of these, crossborder payments, has also had its share of craziness. payment practices have varied widely between member states, and when paying bills from one country to another, it has not always been possible to be sure that they were sent to the correct address, or even that the recipient of the payment did not know how to automatically locate the payments in his account. in future, it will no longer matter where in the eu a citizen has a bank account, but things will be done just as they are in the country. i look forward to seeing how making bank transfers will become cheaper, faster and safer for all of us.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think this debate shows that the agreement we are voting on tomorrow is far from good. at the same time, trade agreements of this kind are in principle beneficial to the development of the country in question. i am one of those who believe that open trade, for example in this case with morocco, is in principle a good thing that is moving in the right direction. it is regrettable that in the course of the negotiations in parliament the previous reference to the fact that parliament voted against the fisheries partnership agreement with morocco in december has been removed. it was a difficult debate which ended with a critical majority in parliament. we all know why. this shows once again that we can't seem to discuss difficult matters with our friends. it has been said here on several occasions that morocco is a friend of the eu and they are right: we are friends of the moroccans. but you should be able to discuss difficult things with your friends, and some people seem to think you can't. that's too bad.
mr president, first of all i want to thank ms goulard for making a good job of trying to consolidate the variety of views in this house on this complicated issue. i think ms goulard has done a good job in trying to address all of the criticisms put forward by those who are not very positive towards the eurobond. at the same time, however, the fundamental challenge that some of us have with eurobonds is whether we regard common issuance – in other words, joint liabilities – as something that is politically acceptable. this cannot be solved by technical solutions involving ‘red’ and ‘blue’ bond models and such like. i personally am in favour of the redemption fund, and i want to remind this house that we have agreed together on the ‘six-pack’, the coming ‘two-pack’, the international agreement, etc. hopefully, all of these will bring the european economies into balance, so why do we need eurobonds at this stage, since at that point all countries should be able to get loans on the markets for a reasonable price? we have not answered that question, and the question whether our endeavours are economically or politically motivated has perhaps not been sufficiently answered at this point in time.
mr president, parliament is now taking a preliminary view on eurobonds on the basis of the commission's proposal, which therefore contains a number of options. the issue of eurobonds is ideological. eurobonds are a big leap forward for the federal government. here's the thing. i'm not a federalist. the second reason why i am not in favour of eurobonds is that they allow member states to continue their reckless borrowing and that is precisely what should be done. member states must continue to be responsible only for their own debts. finally, i would like to say that now, with the heat in athens, the european parliament is discussing and debating eurobonds. i think the main emphasis should be on employment, growth and job creation.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commission for putting the debate on eurobonds into practice: the green paper on stability pact loans is a good way to start the debate. the euro area common debt securities must be seen seriously as part of the future economic architecture of the union, in particular as a means of increasing the stability of the financing of european public debt and reducing interest costs, and as an incentive for economic discipline. the approach should be primarily pragmatic: with adequate guarantees and sound financial discipline, a single bond will reduce borrowing costs for all. without them, the risks are also distributed in an unfair way. common european bonds are seen to bring other benefits as well. the lower and more even interest rates on the debts of the participating countries and the difficulty of speculating with the bonds of individual countries are the most frequent topics of discussion. in particular, the argument of the higher liquidity of the joint bonds has been used to argue that the scheme would also benefit the 'good performers' of the scheme, which are still classified as countries with the lowest possible debt risk: in particular the smaller aaa countries, but also germany, have been calculated to benefit from a broad, more liquid bond market. the common bonds would force the member states to coordinate their economic policies more closely. both opponents and supporters of the system have valid reasons for their position. i personally see that the benefits of eurobonds are ultimately greater, provided that the rules and structure of the system are set correctly.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague gunnar hökmark for his excellent work on the radio spectrum policy programme. frequencies are a limited and highly sought-after resource, needed in a number of sectors and increasingly specifically for digital technology and high-speed broadband connections. i was responsible for the framework of this programme myself on behalf of the committee on the internal market and i am very pleased that we were able to see that the text was ambitious and forward-looking. the challenges of the digital agenda of high-speed connectivity to remote areas, and the decline of smartphones and their growing use, require more frequencies to be realised and operational. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the european union's neighbours, and to extend it to cover the whole of the eu. this deadline was a major achievement, as some countries wanted to delay the process for several years. this is therefore an ambitious achievement, which will allow the rapid development and growth of new services offered by the telecommunications market.
the question of the blue card. i miss prime minister george papandreou, who i think had the brilliant idea of asking the greek people, through a referendum, to support these savings. you said that there is no solidarity in europe. i would say that europe is known for its solidarity, and the german, finnish, dutch and austrian taxpayers have felt a great solidarity. i would also expect, mr president, that the greeks would make a self-criticism which you did not make in your speech. as if the culprits were somewhere else, but not in greece, so can i ask you a self-critical question?
mr president, it is easy to agree with the aims of the commission and the reports, and to agree with the means. however, the growth survey pays far too little attention to small business growth and employment. we need funding, but how? financing is not always the answer, and reducing the administrative burden is also necessary. the proposal lacks concrete initiatives, how do we reach smes in practice? it's not the time to be afraid of taking risks. the reform of the labour market and the increase in labour mobility cannot rely solely on labour market flexibility, as the neoliberals believe. in a dynamic labour market, workers must also be protected. my other home country, denmark, is a good example of resilience. the presidency should perhaps now be calling for greater flexibility in the labour market while at the same time increasing the safety of workers. in an ageing europe, pension systems need to be built to be sustainable. in many countries, painful decisions have to be made, such as raising the retirement age and raising pensions to a sustainable level. the sooner the system is recycled, the easier it is to make it sustainable. finally, i would like to say that we must also pay attention to well-being at work and to fatigue.
mr president, since this resolution was adopted without a vote, i would point out that the decision of the court of justice of the european union a year ago put the continuation of the food aid in question. fortunately, on the basis of the european parliament's resolution of last june, a solution has now been reached with the council to avoid this drastic cut in food aid, and now the continuation of aid is ensured with an annual budget of eur 500 million until the end of 2013. during these years, a sensible continuation of the aid must be found, since the share of eu citizens in need will rather increase in the coming years. the voluntary work carried out in many countries by the parishes and relief organisations distributing eu food aid must also be valued. the action of parliament and the result achieved were the right response to the plight of europe's poorest.
in writing. − i, carl haglund, decided to abstain from supporting the resolution on the feasibility of introducing stability bonds following my firm conviction that a system of permanent joint liabilities for sovereign debt is no solution for the eurozone. in addition to this there are a number of issues concerning moral hazard, wrong incentives, impacts on the interest rates and legal constraints that as yet have not been appropriately tackled in my view. the rapporteur has made a great effort in tackling these and other inherent issues, which is the reason for my not voting against the resolution even though the fundamental question on joint liabilities led me to abstain from supporting the resolution.
in writing. - i take as a starting point in the eurobond debate the fact that each country must be responsible for its own debts. the current crisis in the european economy requires concrete instruments. in addition, sustainable solutions are needed to prevent similar crises in the future. eurobonds are a source of fear in countries that have a good budget. the fear is underpinned by the threat that eurobonds will raise borrowing costs in the countries with the highest credit ratings. for example, finland has not accepted the proposal for eurobonds. the commission's assessment of the potential benefits of jointly issued eurobonds is wide-ranging. the euro area countries experiencing financial difficulties could borrow more easily and cheaper. a more sustainable and stable euro area is in the interest of europe as a whole. the european union should be the one to solve the european economic crisis. the debate on the european crisis and its management should therefore be conducted between the council of ministers, the commission and parliament. i call for economic discipline and supervision as a condition for common eurobonds. the member states which have managed their budgets and their public finances well must not become payers.
mr president, allow me first of all in my capacity as coordinator for our group in the committee on budgets to thank our excellent rapporteur for his good work. i am also convinced that we can find very broad common ground in this house. that is important in this difficult economic time. my colleague mr gerbrandy explained very well where our group stands. we are very positive with regard to the development in the house right now, where we seriously examine all our costs in order to find savings instead of increasing our own budget. this is a path we need to continue on. a part of this could actually be the external audit that my colleague, mr maňka, just asked for. we have been calling for a similar type of solution for a longer time. it probably would not hurt. at the same time, the secretary-general mr welle, whom mr ashworth referred to earlier, has been doing a good job with finding savings once we started to demand them. so we obviously have to look at ourselves and remember that the savings will only be created once we ask for them. now we have started to do so and that is a good thing. we will also vote on the single seat amendment, which some colleagues referred to. as stated before, this is a symbolic issue for many, but it is also an economic issue. in these times of austerity it is important that colleagues have the opportunity to take a stance on this issue once again. that is why many members from our group signed this amendment. so we are on the right path. let us continue in this direction and we will look far better in the eyes of the public in the future.
mr president, i am in favour of one seat for the european parliament. i am very pleased that parliament has now voted by a large majority in favour of one seat. we must now begin to convince our own governments that european ministers, foreign ministers and prime ministers will raise this issue in joint meetings of european ministers. we have heard that no member state has raised this issue for years. but having two offices costs taxpayers €180 million, which is a lot of money in this day and age, which should be saved. five thousand officers are coming here for a few days. this movement of people and papers also wastes the environment. the eu must also save on all administrative costs.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution. the recent political developments in hungary are particularly worrying. on the other hand, we should have intervened last summer. the european union is founded on common european values. at the heart of these values are democracy, human rights and the rule of law. each eu member state must respect these values and principles. the concerns are not limited to the issues that are the subject of the infringement procedure initiated by the commission. the hungarian authorities have also introduced a number of other questionable legislative changes. for example, a law on the registration of churches requires a two-thirds majority in parliament. such a restrictive provision is likely to infringe the principle of freedom of religion and conscience. it is important that the concerns of the european parliament are understood in hungary too. we must not give the hungarian people the impression that we are against them, but on the contrary, we want to support them.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution. europe needs russia and russia needs europe. russia, like the eu member states, is a member of the council of europe, the osce and numerous human rights treaties. nevertheless, the state of democracy in russia remains a matter of concern. the russian electoral practice does not comply with the electoral standards of the council of europe and the osce. the elections to the state duma last december showed many irregularities, manipulation and signs of backfilling. the elections were neither fair nor free. as many as 600 international observers are expected to attend the russian presidential elections in march. the smooth and impartial conduct of election observation would also be important for the development of russian society. the russian authorities should not interfere in the elections, but on the other hand the outcome of the elections is already clear. the european union is a community of values, based on respect for democracy and human rights. russia cannot be an exception.
mr president, it is important that an agreement on agricultural and fisheries products be concluded between the eu and morocco. in addition to the agreement, we have also voted today on the resolution on morocco. is it true that the european union is not willing to improve the situation of human rights and democracy in the target countries in its trade policy? i think that this approach is wrong and unsustainable. the european union, as a community of values based on human rights and democracy, cannot operate on separate principles. the european external action service, and in particular the commission, should develop clear and sustainable guidelines for all its commercial activities in non-eu countries. such a code of conduct should contain clear and durable guidelines for the implementation and enforcement of the principles of human rights, the rule of law and democracy as a condition for the establishment of any trade relationship.
mr president, the eu must respect the principles of international law and not accept the agricultural agreement with morocco unless production from the occupied western sahara is excluded from the agreement. the new agreement will be reached, as long as western sahara is left out. the eu and morocco need to establish close cooperation and an agreement on fisheries and agriculture, but human rights issues must not be ignored. human rights are universal, indivisible and interdependent. morocco cannot decide on trade relations for the sake of the occupied western sahara. from a commercial point of view, the agreement may also affect the competitive position of european producers. the agreement favours capital intensive industrial agriculture. i was in favour of supporting sustainable agriculture and family farms. the european union must act in accordance with its values in all its activities.
mr president, the violent and uncontrolled situation in syria is the result of president bashar al-assad's refusal to relinquish power. the european parliament has already said that al-assad must go, because he has lost all confidence in him. syria has done everything possible to prevent the international media from operating in the country. but we do know that as many as 7,000 people have already died in the last 11 months. the causes of the conflict are purely power-related, because syria doesn't have oil, like libya. the west and the un are not willing to engage in a peace-making effort in syria. the role of turkey and the arab league is of paramount importance in the settlement of the conflict. the european union has rightly tightened its targeted economic sanctions against the assad regime and its allies. we must use all the political and diplomatic means at our disposal. one possibility is to consider the humanitarian corridor proposed by france to protect civilians. we must actively work to ensure that a lasting solution to the syrian situation is put into effect at the un.
i voted in favour of this resolution, which is important in principle. the resolution rightly stresses the importance of finding a common position at the forthcoming un human rights council. speaking with one voice has been a stumbling block to european union political cooperation, especially in foreign policy. speaking with one voice would enhance the visibility and influence of the eu as a global actor. i am raising issues which i believe are important in the current international situation. the mainstreaming of human rights must be part of the building of state institutions. the new democracies, particularly those emerging from the arab spring, must be supported in their efforts to build a genuine democracy. the situation in syria is a matter of concern and concern to europeans. it is extremely regrettable that the crisis, which has already claimed the lives of some 7 000 people, cannot be brought to an end. the un must agree on joint action. finally, i would stress that the eu must ensure that the universality, indivisibility and interdependence of human rights are not called into question.
in writing. - mr president, i voted against the resolution on hungary because i think that this house has not acted with dignity in condemning the investigation between the hungarian government and the commission and in not allowing the government to respond to the accusations. the government has expressed its willingness to address all the concerns raised by the commission. this gesture therefore seems more like a partisan humiliation than a genuine concern for european values.
mr president, belarus is the only country in europe that still carries out death sentences. the supreme court of belarus has decided to sentence to death the perpetrators of the terrorist attacks on the minsk metro in 2011. terrorism is the most reprehensible form of savage and cruel intimidation of civilians and the undermining of the structures of society. there have also been serious allegations of dishonesty and shortcomings in the trials of those sentenced to death. at the same time, belarus' prisons are full of political prisoners, with harsh prison conditions and trumped-up charges. the death penalty, no matter how it is carried out, is always inhuman. in belarus, the death penalty is carried out by a pistol shot to the neck. the commission should consider tightening targeted sanctions against those who support the belarusian regime. at the same time, we must ensure that ordinary belarusians do not suffer. access for ordinary citizens to eu territory should be generally facilitated and civil society supported.
your honor, konovalov and kovaljov were sentenced to death for terrorist attacks. however, the trial did not meet international standards of due process. many human rights organizations have reported that the case and the charges against them may be completely fabricated and in any case, torture was used during the interrogations. amnesty international says the only way to appeal is for the families of the convicted to petition the president for a pardon. if the pardon is not granted, the men's death sentences can be carried out within minutes of the rejection decision. the president of parliament, mr schultz, has already appealed to president lukashenko to release these men and to overturn the death sentences. we are doing the same as the european parliament.
mr president, belarus is the only country in europe where the death penalty is still in use. the execution of sentences is a state secret, with no prior knowledge of the relatives or even the sentenced person. executions are also often buried without the knowledge of the family. konovalov and kovaljov, who were sentenced in november, were suspected of very serious crimes. yet, the destruction of evidence immediately after a verdict, the gross injustice of the trial, and numerous other factors are a disturbing indication of the perversion of the judicial system. the eu-belarus dialogue cannot progress without belarus taking steps towards democracy, human rights and the rule of law. as regards the death penalty, it is time for the country to align its national legislation with the international treaties it has signed and to guarantee a fair trial.
mr president, the events in egypt have made me reflect on the nature of democracy. i myself visited cairo in november and witnessed the demonstrations in tahrir square and met many egyptians who longed for a new form of government for their country. the arab spring-inspired resistance movement has spread and egypt is experiencing a critical transition period. democracy is not enough if it is not built on the values of respect for the inviolability and freedom of the individual. without values, democracy is a mere calculation, the outcome of which can only be further suffering through greater formal acceptance. egypt has recently released jailed bloggers and partially lifted the state of emergency. however, as a step towards civilian rule, the state of emergency should be abolished completely and freedom of speech and religion fully respected. we want to express our solidarity with the egyptians and our deepest sympathy with the families of those who died in the football match in early february.
mr president, commissioner, the european parliament wishes to support the egyptian people's steps towards democracy and human rights. it is therefore particularly important that we monitor the implementation of human and fundamental rights during the so-called transitional period. the violence in cairo has continued, following the unfortunate events at a football match in which 74 people were killed. since then, thousands of people have joined protests accusing police of being passive during the football riots. the rise to power of islamist parties raises concerns, particularly for the rights of children and women, as well as for the status of religious minorities, such as christians. genuine democracy requires support for the work of ngos and the building of civil society, not condemnation of their work. we hope that the egyptian military leadership will swiftly move towards civilian rule, as the protesters have demanded.
mr president, commissioner, there are an estimated 130 death row prisoners in japan and their risk of being executed is now higher, as the new minister of justice, mr toshio ogawan, publicly stated on 15 january 2012 that he sees the introduction of the death penalty as a duty of office. as the european parliament, we condemn various acts of terrorism, such as the tokyo subway attack in 1995, and there is no need to show any sympathy for such acts. however, the death penalty is the wrong answer and a flagrant violation of the fundamental human right of every human being, namely the right to life. we therefore call on the japanese government to abolish the death penalty altogether.
mr president, japan is about to resume the execution of death sentences. japan has previously refrained from executing its citizens. japan is one of the few industrialized countries that still imposes the death penalty. the death sentences were resumed only after the japanese minister of justice announced it, and there is no prospect of a wider public debate on the matter. the death penalty, however it is carried out, is always inhuman. the european external action service and the commission should use all possible means of political dialogue and diplomacy to stop the execution of death sentences in japan. the european union, as a community of values, is committed to the total abolition of the death penalty throughout the world and this must be upheld.
mr president, we have regularly dealt with the death penalty in our urgent resolutions, and twice during this sitting. opposition to the death penalty and due process are part of european values and the wider international treaty policy. the death penalty is still in use in japan. however, no executions have been carried out in the last year and a half, as the outgoing minister of justice has now taken a more cautious line. i hope that his successor, toshio ogawa, will reverse his earlier speech and continue the moderate policy initiated by hideo, eventually leading to the lifting of the entire sentence. in recent years, significant steps have been taken worldwide to abolish the death penalty, and more and more countries have decided to abolish this form of punishment. the fact that japan would join the group would not only be a positive consequence of the international trend but would also signal to the world that asia is a leading democracy.
rapporteur. − madam president, women are under-represented at all levels of political decision-making: at local level, in elected positions, at national level, and at european level. they are under-represented in nominated positions; in the member states as ministers or in the european union as commissioners. and they are also under-represented in the preparation of legislation in the commission or in administrative and governmental structures at national level. they are under-represented in other areas of democratic input into preparing legislation, such as trade unions or employers’ organisations which negotiate wages, for example. that is not good enough. women are very strongly segregated in political decision-making. quite often it is men who hold the positions with the economic resources. they are the prime ministers, finance ministers, ministers for economy, trade and so on. women are responsible for the tasks to be taken care of with these resources: education, social care, environment, health and so on. so there is a very strong and problematic gap, and the question is one of equality and quality. it is stated in various international conventions that women’s rights are human rights. women have an equal right to be part of decision-making. this is a question of equality. not because women would take better decisions, but because an organisation of that kind, with variety, different kinds of experiences, education and life experiences, makes better decisions. this is clearly shown in the world bank’s studies, for example. then comes the question: what should we do? firstly, we really need a multi-faceted action programme that has follow-up mechanisms, reparative mechanisms with sanctions and actions, both at local and national level, in parliament’s committees and at council level. it would mean, and i really hope to see this, the commission committing itself at european level and encouraging member states to get involved in discussions with political parties – the starting point for democracy in various fields – so that all the political parties have the kinds of rules, regulations and practices that ensure equal numbers of men and women in their own decision-making and in their own preparations for electoral lists. if necessary, that should then be ensured by sanction mechanisms, with a sanction fee, or by the way in which financial resources for political parties are used. we have to tackle the electoral lists and we have to do a lot of work at european union level also. the results of the most recent elections for the president and vice-presidents in parliament itself were not very encouraging and nor is the current situation. how many top posts in parliament’s secretariat are held by women? we should not be preaching on issues we are not able to deal with ourselves. we need education, active media, a platform for civil society and women’s organisations to work. we have to encourage our member states to propose men and women for the next round as commissioners, as well as to take care that, when nominating candidates for the eu commission’s top posts, they ensure that there is equality in numbers and they give consideration to the segregation between men and women as regards posts. and, yes indeed, we have to ensure that there is an environment that helps women participate in politics. that means equal pay; that means social security; that means services for care of the elderly and child care, and other aspects. i hope and wish that we all, men and women, commit ourselves to making this action programme happen, for a better world for our children.
the question of the blue card. mr president, i share mr bauer's desire to bring something new to this debate. i ask mr bauer: you also said that progress had been made in a better direction, do you really think that progress has been made in a better direction? because it seems - and i would like the commissioner to comment on this - that this economic crisis is taking a negative direction on equality, because, for example, the restructuring of the public sector is specifically targeted at women. so i would like to ask you and the commissioner to comment: can you not think that things have improved?
blue-card question. – madam president, i would just like to question my colleague about his understanding of meritocracy, and ask on which facts he bases his knowledge that one could not find more qualified women to sit on company boards than there are at the moment.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the good reports, even though they were not pleasant to read. men and women are not equal in almost any field. i also understand the frustration of commissioner reding, but things have been slow. if, for example, we had made progress in pay equality by 1% since the treaty of rome, we would no longer have the pay gap between men and women, nor would we have the pay gap. but no progress has been made. the eu should act now and not just do what is written in eu decisions. there is a question of equality: intends, strives, considers, plans or makes a plan of action. very rarely are there concrete decisions. i do not know whether this is appropriate, but let us compare: if an animal is missing an ear tag, the farmer will be fined several thousand euros, but if a woman is paid less than a man, what does the eu do? he apologizes, he plans, he plans, but there's no punishment. i wish the strength of mr reding and the entire committee. i also hope that action will be taken here if we want to move forward on this issue, or if we want to say outright that men and women do not deserve equality according to eu documents. i don't think this is the way it should be.
rapporteur. − madam president, first of all i would like to thank the commissioner not only for her very strong words but also for her strong actions on striving towards equality and parity. firstly, i would like to thank all my colleagues for this very fruitful discussion, the point of which is that different actions are not exclusive to each other. we can and we need to have voluntary action and the activity of women and men themselves. we need affirmative actions and we need to support civil society and women’s organisations. but we need legislative actions too. in my mind, the core is parity and that both men and women are treated and given the same possibilities. in my mind, human rights are never subject to voluntary action if someone wants to give human rights to someone else. nor, in my mind, is it an issue of subsidiarity for human rights to be respected on one side of the border but not on the other. to me, legislation, be it quotas, is a fair deal where we all commit ourselves to obeying the rules and we all commit ourselves to behaving like human beings. it is a bit like when we commit ourselves by law, not just voluntarily, to driving on the right side of the road where that applies, and on the left side in some other cases. this is why quotas, to me, are not a question of having unqualified men or women. it is a question of giving access on the basis of a meritocracy to everybody. lastly, it is my wish that the commission strengthen the role of the european institute for gender equality and strengthen their finances and ability to act and serve as a platform for women and other ngos and that the commission may find resources to support women’s organisations campaigning on equality in upcoming elections, be they national or for european parliament.
mr president, let me just briefly say that i am glad that the council again underlined the fact that sustainable growth and jobs cannot be built on deficit and excessive debt levels. that was a good statement; something that we have been working on through the six-pack and i was also glad to hear that mr van rompuy referred to the six-pack because it has actually worked. four countries have actually taken some very important corrective action thanks to the six-pack; though it is unfortunate that hungary has not been able to do so. considering the two-pack negotiations which are ongoing, i guess it would be really good if the council would this time endorse the fact that we need more automaticity in order to have a credible two-pack result. in the six-pack negotiations, the council was against this approach; we were persistent and the outcome was very good. mr verhofstadt has already spoken about the redemption fund. i only want to say that i am sure that if we do not do this we are going to keep beefing up the so-called rescue mechanisms to the bitter end, due to market pressure. concerning the 2020 strategy, i tend to share the slightly cynical approach taken by mr barroso earlier. we have to remember that despite all these good promises and decisions – for instance in the latest council meeting – the same council wanted to cut eur 560 million from research and innovation in the budget of 2012. luckily the parliament was able to stop this, but this just proves again that the council does not live up to its own goals and decisions and you have much work to do in the council.
madam president, in the finnish version of this report the numbering of articles is wrong from article 33 onwards. so in the finnish version of this report, the numbering is wrong.
rapporteur. − madam president, this is a totally technical oral amendment to have the right reference for the united nations resolution. it is general assembly resolution on women and political participation: resolution a/c.3/66/l.20/rev.1 approved on 18 november 2011. this is the correct formulation for that un resolution, for your information.
mr president, i should like to begin by saying that, in my view, this type of report does not belong in the european parliament, because most of the matters discussed here are within the competence of the member states themselves, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. on the other hand, this report was also very contradictory internally. furthermore, the numbering from 33 onwards was incorrect and thus caused a great deal of confusion. i can simply say that i voted against it because of its substance and because it does not belong here in the chamber of the european parliament. i think we should always act in favour of life, i am what is known as a pro-life person in every respect and unfortunately this was not a pro-life report. in that respect too, this could not be approved.
mr president, first of all i would like to say that sirpa pietikkinen's report is a good one and deserves our support. i voted for it, and if you compare it with the sophia in t'veld report which has just been discussed, there is a big difference. this is a case of putting things in the right context and starting from the very idea that competence is what counts. but we in europe still have a long way to go before we can make decisions based on qualifications alone. we need jobs, we need education and we need attitudes to equal treatment of women and men in the labour market and in different jobs. i therefore believe that quotas will be such a transitional solution in political decision-making. we need to act because words are not enough. there are good examples of this, as we have seen here, for example the european central bank, which has no women. i know that in some countries there are equality commissioners' offices where there are no men, and so on. the starting point is that men and women should be involved in decision-making and i believe that this will help to consolidate this development in the various countries and to achieve equality.
i voted in favour of this important report. the bologna process, the creation of a european higher education area, has been a success story. the number of countries participating in the process, which started in 1998, has risen to almost 50 and there is also a great deal of interest from outside europe. the key objectives of the bologna process have been well achieved. european cooperation in the field of higher education has increased significantly. the bologna process still needs to be improved. the challenge remains to address important issues such as increasing and diversifying mobility, the recognition and harmonisation of qualifications and the employment of young people after graduation. while the task of modernising and strengthening universities is primarily the responsibility of the member states, as the colleagues have pointed out, the eu institutions and other stakeholders must also be involved. the european union must contribute to the success of the bologna process.
i voted in favour of this berlinguer report, mr president, because it is very good and important for the european higher education area and its development. the bologna process has been a success story. the objective that berlinguer himself set out here - he was one of the ministers who initiated this process at the sorbonne in 1998 - 1999 - the objective that all eu citizens should be able to start from the same starting point in terms of qualifications and thus be placed in different parts of the internal market and in the wider world of work and that qualifications should correspond to each other, this is a very good objective and we must work towards it. so there are 47 member states in all. we all know that the power of the european union is the power of open coordination, and that is what is being used here. it should also be borne in mind that the member states have final jurisdiction. the british university and college system has benefited from this, they have been strongly in favour of this, and so it now seems a little strange that the british authorities are opposed to this. it is not the case, my friends, that you are opposed to everything that has to do with the eu. this is a success story, this is good for europe and this is not exclusive to anyone, on the contrary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr in't veld. while the european union is at the forefront of gender equality in the world, it is important to bear in mind that there is still room for improvement. it is undeniable that women are underrepresented in leadership positions across europe. it's imperative that we fix this. the range of instruments should be open to evaluation. the situation of women differs widely between member states, and it is therefore a matter of priority to ensure that measures which have been found to be positive and effective in more advanced member states are implemented at union level. the impact of specific gender factors such as starting a family or serving in the armed forces on a person's chances of working life should be taken into account. however, it is worrying that even in countries with a high level of equality in statistics and legislation, there is a significant gender imbalance, especially in the selection of those in management positions. it's a matter of evaluating the reasons. without discounting the distortion caused by the good brother networks, it is clear that when looking at the ratios, one cannot only take into account the elected leaders and the entire population base, but must also be able to see the possible gender imbalances between both the elected and the candidates and the candidates and the population base and then draw the appropriate conclusions. no quota can provide a genuine solution, i.e. the selection of the most suitable candidates irrespective of sex, as long as there is a significant difference in risk appetite between the sexes. it is therefore essential that both sexes are also taught at an early age the importance of initiative in coping with modern society. the cat's tail is ultimately lifted by no one but the cat itself.
in writing. - first of all, i'd like to thank the little people for their hard work. it is quite clear that the real realization of democracy requires the representation of both sexes in political decision-making. this is why women's political participation must be promoted at regional, national and european levels. however, artificial legislative measures should not be used as a means. the selection of candidates and appointments should be based on personal merit. quotas are easily met with a great deal of resistance and i think they undervalue women. the real reasons for the low representation of women must be addressed. attitudes and stereotypes towards women and traditional gender roles should be actively addressed. this process must start in primary school. it is particularly important to provide children with a variety of role models to support their development. women should be encouraged to enter politics at a young age. it is also important to actively monitor the media in order to identify and better address gender discrimination.
in writing. "health is like trust. often, its value is not realized until it is lost. diabetes is one of the most common noncommunicable diseases. it affects more than 32 million eu citizens, or nearly 10% of the union's total population. diabetes affects the quality of life. it also causes additional diseases. and it increases the mortality rate. we must fight against diabetes and other diseases of the people. national action is needed, but also european action. at present, only 16 eu countries have a national action programme to combat diabetes. the other 11 countries should do so as soon as possible. just wanting to eat and live healthily is not always enough. there is also a need for information on healthy lifestyles. this is particularly true for type 2 diabetes. further research is needed to identify risk factors for type 1 diabetes, for example with regard to heredity. finally, i would also like to call on us, the decision-makers, to have the courage to make decisions that support healthy choices.
in writing. i would like to stress the importance of the resolution to the eu's fight against the diabetes epidemic in the european health agenda. it is estimated that more than 32 million eu citizens, or nearly 10% of the total population, are affected by diabetes. diabetes is one of the non-communicable diseases that currently cause 87% of deaths in the european union. type 2 diabetes is a preventable disease, and it is not a disease that is preventable. however, the current practice is to start treatment at a very late stage, which causes serious health effects. early diagnosis should be the priority of national diabetes programmes, so that treatment can be started at an earlier stage of the disease. in addition, the commission should initiate work on the establishment of a pan-european diabetes strategy. last month, the un general assembly adopted a declaration on noncommunicable diseases. the declaration reminds policymakers worldwide of the importance of chronic diseases in the health policy agenda. the main guidelines set out in the declaration are to increase counselling, economic instruments, the active promotion of healthy food and access to health care and services for all. this declaration is also referred to in the resolution of parliament and it is important that the recommendations of the un declaration be taken seriously.
mr president, first of all i should like to say that i voted in favour of this report. there are many good things in this and it can be said that it is moving in the right direction, but perhaps still inadequate in some respects. but in any case, i think it is important to take into account that we are living in challenging economic times in europe and in such times we must dare to cut the extra strings. but not that the surgery is the purpose. we must set the budgetary priorities in such a way as to enable growth. this means that if we want to bring about recovery and growth in the european economy, we must invest in r & d, that is, in research, development and innovation, we must invest in education. so they are the foundation and the foundation on which new growth in europe can be built. in this context, it is very important to take into account the need for further investment in these areas. bureaucracy and these kinds of excesses can be cut, but training, innovation and r & d are needed to get europe's economy back on track and on the path to growth.
mr president, i voted in favour of freezing the eu budget. in fact, i am in favour of the eu making savings in its budget. the eu member states are living in debt. they borrow for their day-to-day expenses and also for the eu's membership fee. in addition, member states are forced to make significant cuts in their national budgets. in this situation, the eu must set an example. the eu must also be innovative and find those targets from which the eu itself can save. it cannot teach its member states that you must save. member states that do not save enough are punished, but the eu itself is not prepared to look for places to save. the eu budget, in the case of the parliament, the commission and the council, the entire eu budget, has some sensible savings to be found. instead, the eu should spend money on growth and jobs.
mr president, i supported the report because the chocolate we european consumers consume is often produced by questionable methods using child labour. we know that the cocoa plantations of west africa, ghana, and côte d'ivoire produce almost all the world's cocoa, which is the main ingredient in chocolate. the european commission and the foreign affairs council should monitor developments in these countries particularly closely and ensure that the eu does not enter into trade relations with the countries which use the worst forms of child labour. the use of child labour in the cocoa industry also shows that we still have some very serious socioeconomic and political challenges. it is not just a question of corporate social responsibility for european companies, but the european union is a community of values based on human rights, and that is why we cannot accept the blatant use of child labour in the cultivation and harvesting of cocoa beans, for example.
i think it is very important, mr president, that we now ensure that the european union upholds its own values. our core value is human rights, and human rights include the rights of children. we must therefore be very careful not to subject children to this kind of exposure under any circumstances, but to ensure that their overall development can continue, and to take account of and create all the conditions for the child's psychological, motor, cognitive and intellectual development. we must therefore reject child labour very strongly and clearly, and when we make these agreements, both with regard to cocoa and other products, we must also ensure that our partners do not subject children in this way and thereby seek cost savings, but that children have the right to childhood and children's rights, human rights.
i voted in favour of the report, mr president, because diabetes is not only a source of human suffering but also a very significant cost to the national economy, given the alarming increase in the number of people with diabetes in europe. type 2 diabetes is a lifestyle disease and prevention requires, among other things, adequate and comprehensible information on healthy food for the general public. the labelling of food packaging must not be misleading and consumers must be able to make the best choices for their own health. diabetes can be prevented by proper diet and exercise. health is a holistic aspect of the whole of human life and it is therefore important to support diabetes prevention by all means possible. that is why i wholeheartedly support this report.
i voted in favour of this report. it is very important that we at european union level do everything we can to prevent the spread of diabetes. as has been said, diabetes is a kind of epidemic in our time, and it has increased very strongly, especially when we talk about this second type of diabetes, which is very much a consequence of the role of lifestyle changes, diet and exercise in human health. although, for the most part, these health-related matters fall within the competence of the member states, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, i think it is nevertheless good that the european union is aware of such public health issues and the risk of encouraging member states to take action to inform children and young people at school about the impact of healthy food and a healthy lifestyle, and to take all possible measures to prevent the increase in the incidence of second-degree diabetes and to control it.
mr president, it is extremely regrettable that the name dispute continues to hamper macedonia's eu membership and impede progress in the enlargement process. the european union has promised the possibility of enlargement to all the balkan countries. macedonia was one of the first countries in the region to be granted eu candidate status. the macedonians are also very pro-eu, at least for now. the european commission has for three years in a row recommended that macedonia open negotiations with the eu, but the council has not yet reached agreement. the commission has also fallen into the trap of linguistic censorship: it does not use the term macedonia or macedonian. this is not how the un works. the eu should take a look in the mirror. the eu has a responsibility to ensure that no country is left behind. the credibility of the entire eu accession process could be jeopardised by such a list of names. the progress of macedonia is, of course, primarily up to macedonia itself, but the eu should not have the right to close the door on it because of such a political title.
in the face of the economic crisis in europe, mr president, we politicians too often forget how much stability, prosperity and well-being the european union has also brought to its member states. the icelandic economy and financial sector are recovering. the european union will gain from iceland a member state with a long history and strong democratic traditions, with an active civil society. the eu will be able to act as a strategic bridgehead in the arctic region. at the same time, it has a lot of knowledge about renewable energy. iceland already meets the copenhagen criteria and is therefore eligible for eu membership. however, iceland's eu membership should not be taken for granted. for example, ending whaling is a threshold issue. the process of accession to the european union proceeds on the basis of the achievements of each country. but we can congratulate ourselves: the willingness of the icelandic people to join us shows that the eu remains attractive.
mr president, it has been said here that democracy is a process, and that is a wise statement. democracy is a way, it is not the only goal, because no country has perfect democracy. one of the conditions for democracy is that the peoples of europe must also go through the dark side of their own history. germany, for example, has developed its own term, "vergangenheitsbewältigung", which means "to go through the bad stuff". but in russia, they haven't done this. for example, when russian youths are asked what their ideals are, a significant number of them say stalin. in other words, the development of democracy in russia requires that they go through their own dark history, and through that, then there is a genuine appreciation of democracy and pluralism.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i should like to thank mr søvndal for the analysis of the current situation in kazakhstan. i agree with you that just now kazakhstan is very open and we must use this situation and use the leverage and power of the european parliament to put pressure on kazakhstan to enhance the human rights situation in kazakhstan. unfortunately, since last year we have witnessed not only an increase in civil protest and peaceful resistance, but also a decline in fundamental and human rights. this decline is the key word. it is not going better but it is in decline. we are concerned to see an increase in harassments, intimidation and detention of opposition leaders, of independent media persons and other civil actors. in a joint resolution, which i hope will be accepted tomorrow we urge the kazakh authorities to reverse the negative trend in human and fundamental rights and to understand that economic cooperation must go hand in hand with political cooperation and the improvement of human rights. these are both very important – economic cooperation and human rights. that is why it is important for the kazakh authorities to understand that we expect kazakhstan to show some positive actions during the pca negotiation. therefore, a truly positive action kazakhstan could take immediately is to fully implement its adopted national human rights action plan. in fact, kazakhstan could be one of the happiest countries in central asia. economically, it has become a wealthy country but socially and politically, however, it still has to live up to its international commitments and to allow democratic involvement and participation of the citizens in social, political and labour issues. yes, we europeans wish for kazakhstan to become a true forerunner for such a ‘spring’ in central asia and we need to use our leverage in the european parliament.
mr. speaker, nigeria is the only country in the world with an equal number of muslims and christians. its main political challenges at present are to preserve the unity of the country and to combat terrorism. in recent months, the islamist extremist group boko haram has carried out a series of violent bombings against civilians, government buildings and churches. the attack on the church during christmas is an act of terrorism of unimaginable cruelty. the violent attacks on christians are designed to drive a wedge between muslims and christians and to make the current nigerian leadership appear incapable of maintaining the unity and security of the country. the muslim military leader of the north, muhammadu buhari, has come out in the open to criticise the ineffective efforts of president goodluck jonathan's government to improve the security situation. the soil is now fertile for religious agitators. the huge numbers of unemployed and marginalized young people in northern nigeria, it is easy to get involved in violent islamic extremist activity against christians and also against western values. boko haram is also believed to have links to al-qaeda. the security situation is also affected by returning unemployed fighters from north africa, mauritania, chad and libya and by the flow of illegal weapons from that region. the nigerian leadership needs support at this time in its fight against terrorism and in stabilising the country.
mr president, the opposition in belarus is under very heavy pressure from the lukashenko administration. several civil society activists have been banned from traveling, the offices of ngos have been searched, computers have been seized and leaders arrested. the latest information is that the belarusian ministry of justice has rejected the registration of the christian democratic party for the fourth time. i support the extension of all sanctions and the demand for the release of political prisoners as well. i also want to support the point made by my colleagues ojuland and šťastný here, namely that we should all appeal to the international hockey federation, which will meet at the next congress in helsinki, to withdraw the 2014 championship from belarus. it is not a question of boycott, boycott always harms sport, but of the fact that the games are held, but not in belarus. they must not be given to lukashenko's prestige.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we should all recognize that the eu's current climate policy is lagging behind what the science is telling us to do. i would have liked parliament to be able to say this more clearly, that our immediate 2020 emission reduction target must also be tightened up. in any case, this report supports the commission's roadmap, that we also set intermediate targets for 2030 and 2040, and in this way we are setting the path to where we should be by the middle of the century. this means that parliament will send a strong message that the commission must now take action, that it must now start making legislative proposals. it cannot be that one country - poland - is stopping us from moving forward. countless studies show that the technology exists and is reasonably priced. chris davies gave a great example of this, and my own house is heated by a similar system that he described. anyone who is concerned about costs should remember that postponing action to the future also means postponing costs to the future. (the speaker promised to answer the question on the blue card under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
blue-card answer. – mr president, i shall answer in english. last november, the international energy agency published a grave warning. if we continue ‘business as usual’ it will mean that in five years we will have lost the possibility to keep global warming below a 2°c increase because the ‘business as usual’ investments made by then will have used up the room for manoeuvre which we have for global emissions. this means that, in practice, the international energy agency too has asked us to be more ambitious in our climate policies. we should listen to that very strong message.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank chris davies for this excellent and balanced report. this report calls for many very important actions towards a low-carbon economy, and i think it also sets out very coherent and concrete actions targeted at policy blocks and the need specifically to invest in a green economy. we need cooperation now, and indeed immediate action, to move towards a low-carbon economy, and we need cooperation between the different policy blocks, from agriculture to cohesion policy and then to environmental policy. of course, this energy policy is very central to this when we talk about how we replace coal. i would like to say that i agree with the previous speaker that we cannot find any alternative to renewable energy. i think we have a good chance of doing so, both in terms of biomass and in terms of wind and hydro power.
in writing. the commission is right to make long-term plans to ensure that the eu has a truly competitive low-carbon economy by 2050. however, it seems strange that many of the objectives that the commission has put forward and that some of my colleagues support are doing the exact opposite for the eu, especially when we take into account the global realities. in all our actions, we should give priority to what is happening in international climate policy: if we decide now to take unilateral action to cut emissions by up to 95% without committing ourselves to an international climate agreement and to similar cuts in third countries, we will be far from competitive. the symptoms of our climate policies are already visible in our economic and employment situation, without any real environmental benefits. in the long term, we should not lock ourselves into expensive methods and base our plans on them, but rather strive to create an environment for our industry which encourages investment and innovation in more efficient technology. the additional unilateral commitments are not encouraging, considering that our emissions are around 11% worldwide; they are stifling our economy. that is why i am concerned in the report we are discussing about the desire to intervene artificially in the emissions trading system and to politically manipulate the price of emission allowances. this would be a very dangerous measure, which would deprive our industry of any ability to plan its actions in the climate policy environment we have created, and it would certainly not encourage the development of technologies. emissions trading is a means of achieving the objectives of reducing emissions. the tightening of the cap will reduce emissions in a planned way and, on the market, the price will be determined by the economic situation of each country. the incentives to move to new, more efficient technologies are created by providing an opportunity for innovation, not by removing it by tightening the reins.
mr president, i have very good news. during this process on the kazakhstan resolution, the kazakhstan authorities have released political prisoners including mrs sokolova and today the editor-in-chief igor vinyavski. (applause)
mr president, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because it is important that parliament should express its clear condemnation of all forms of intolerance. the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of nationality is one of the most fundamental principles in the eu. the dutch freedom party's website is an open invitation to discrimination which cannot be accepted. the presentation of grievances is particularly important because there is a risk that similar behaviour will spread to other member states. the incitement of prejudice easily breeds ethnic divisions between the good of the west and the bad of the east, the lazy of the south and the industrious of the north. parliament must consistently prevent such ethnic divisions from arising.
mr president, although the situation in russia is still a cause for concern, we must nevertheless acknowledge the considerable progress that has been made in russia since communism. there would have been no need for fraud in the presidential election, because putin had no serious opponent. the russian political opposition should unite and increase cooperation. i'm sure a joint candidate would do a lot better in the general election. social media has created a wind of change. since the elections to the state duma last december, russian civil society has been activated in a whole new way, and putin has also allowed this to happen. president putin should realize that this russia of the 2010s is not the same as the one he came to power in 12 years ago. russia will probably never see a revolution like the arab spring. russia must democratize itself, but the european parliament has an important role to play in supporting this process.
i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. as a member of the european parliament and the european union, we must stand up for our own values and we must promote political reform in russia and work towards russia also having a free electoral system. that is not the case today, and if we look closely, according to european values and our legal system, neither the russian parliament nor the russian president are legally elected, and that is of course a problem. we must work with them, encourage them to take the path of democracy, but i think the european union should demand new elections. and while we are here in strasbourg, it is good to remember that the council of europe, which is right next door, also has certain obligations towards russia, and now russia should also play its part in fulfilling them. they are actually related to human rights issues, and putin could do a lot about them. so now we must act to ensure that new elections are held in russia very quickly. it is also in putin's interest, because the way things are going right now, it looks like if there are no new elections, putin may not be in power for the full six years. unfortunately, this is the case and the european union must push for new elections.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, human trafficking is the scourge of our time. this form of slavery is inhuman and totally against human rights. it's a very lucrative business, along with arms and drugs. sinai is the main route from extreme poverty and misery in the southern sahara to israel and other countries in the middle east. human trafficking is rampant in this corridor and the fate of an individual is of no value to the profiteering of traffickers. the countries of the region must work together, with the support of the eu, to stop traffickers and the organised crime networks they use. victims of trafficking should be treated humanely. victims should not be returned to countries where they are at risk of being tortured and ill-treated again. the fate of the people of sinai is often linked by the same starting point: the misery of their home, extreme poverty and lack of opportunities. in this light, even an uncertain escape to northern prosperity is a better solution than life in the home country. the european union must do everything in its power to contribute to the eradication of poverty wherever it exists.
mr president, commissioner, many international human rights organisations have reported on the very poor situation of hundreds of refugees in sinai. the european parliament resolution on eritrean refugees held hostage in the sinai about a year ago called for the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to give priority to this issue in the political dialogue between the eu and egypt. today we are pleading in particular for the solomon case, but no significant progress has been made and the situation of refugees in sinai after the arab spring is still very alarming. how does the commission intend to proceed in practice with the current egyptian leadership? is the commission aware of this ongoing trade in lives? what action does the commission intend to take to put an end to these human rights violations in the region, such as torture and human trafficking?
mr president, the government appointed in egypt last december has mentioned sinai as one of the strategic priorities that should receive more attention. this gives some hope of strengthening the fight against organised crime involved in trafficking in human beings and of resolving the situation of refugees held captive by traffickers in sinai. in particular, in certain areas, refugees are at high risk of becoming victims of trafficking. human trafficking is a lucrative source of money for organized crime and a form of modern slavery. sometimes it's used as a transplant business. the sinai border has also become known as a transit route for african migrants seeking work and a better life in israel. the region needs more attention from egypt, israel and the international community, hence this discussion. egypt, like other states, has an obligation to comply with international treaties in its treatment of refugees. all means must be used to end the torture of refugees who are victims of human trafficking and to stop the crime of slavery.
mr president, this trade in human beings in the sinai is talking and it must be talking about the european union. we are committed to defending human dignity in all circumstances and we must do so together with the international community. the solomon w. case is now before us in concrete form. now that we have commissioner reding here, i would like to ask him what concrete steps the commission has taken - this situation having been known for several years - to prevent and restrict trafficking in human beings, and what kind of dialogue the commission has with the egyptian government and administration. we know that the egyptian government and administration do not respect human rights in the same way, because they unfortunately come from another source, but what concrete actions have now been taken in that area together with egypt, and what positive news can we have from them?
mr president, as my colleagues have said, our group has doubts about the urgency of this subject, but we still consider this a balanced text and support its content. we also reaffirm our support for the two-state solution. the attack by soldiers and civil servants on palestinian television stations at the end of february raises many questions, especially when it comes to stations with which the eu has cooperated. israel states that it has repeatedly warned both stations that they are violating the agreements and operate on frequencies that disrupt communication and broadcasting systems in israel. the palestinian authority has denied the accusations. it must be possible to resolve these discrepancies between the opinions objectively and it is technically possible to do so. all questions relating to telecommunications in the region should be dealt with in the joint israeli-palestinian technical committee established by the oslo accords in order to resolve rapidly the problems of broadcasting television channels. we cannot but continue to insist that peaceful and non-violent means are the only way to achieve a lasting solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict.
madam president, peaceful and non-violent means are the only way to achieve a sustainable solution in the israeli-palestinian conflict. it is vitally important that both israel and the palestinian authority make the best possible use of the israeli-palestinian joint technical committee established by the oslo accords, in order to address any issue arising in the telecommunications field. this controversial technical issue should be resolved in that committee as well, and between those parties. the eu as a member of the quartet should always support peaceful solutions, and the parties should reach mutual understanding on this issue as well.
mr president, those strikes on palestinian television stations on 29 february and the seizures carried out there are undoubtedly exaggerations on the part of israel. these tv stations are located in the palestinian-controlled area. such unilateral action is likely to jeopardise the progress already made in the middle east conflict. peaceful and non-violent action is ultimately the only way, alongside open dialogue, to achieve lasting peace and justice between israelis and palestinians. the european commission and the foreign affairs council should therefore raise the issue of attacks on palestinian media in the eu-israel dialogue and closely monitor developments. the european union is committed to a two-state solution in the middle east. the current situation is inadequate. the only way to achieve lasting peace in the region is through political dialogue, by bringing the parties to the negotiations to the table to discuss.
i think, mr president, that this matter is not so urgent and that the appropriate place to deal with this matter would be the israeli-palestinian autonomous and technical committee. but i understand that it is difficult to put him on that technical committee because the palestinian authority is governed by hamas, which has not yet fulfilled the demands of the international community, namely the renunciation of terrorism, the acceptance of the previous agreements on autonomy between israel and palestine and the recognition of the state of israel. and so, in principle, this being the case, it is only regrettable to note that palestine continues to carry out various forms of terror against israel, including now by means of radio communications. the examples of the last few days tell us, all the international observers tell us, that over 200 rockets have come from the palestinian side. the palestinian authority has started these attacks against israel again. it is clear that this is not the fertile ground on which to build the future, and that is why we must bring the parties to the table. of course, there would be a need for free media in that area, and israel is the only one that is currently doing so, but the parties must return to the negotiating table. it is the only way to resolve matters and to move them forward.
mr president, the security situation in bahrain remains very fragile and clashes between security forces and protesters are reported frequently and intensively now that the anniversary of the uprising, 14 february, is approaching. the report of the independent committee, published in november, says that the use of excessive force and widespread torture by the authorities against those involved in the uprising has been ongoing. the report found that the sunni government of bahrain has not taken action on the recommendations, including the failure to bring to justice government members responsible for abuses. the report says that political prisoners are being systematically tortured and that the high representative has called for an end to the violence, as has un secretary-general ban ki-moon. the international community cannot stand by and watch these atrocities in that country.
mr president, in october we took a position on the situation in bahrain, highlighting the arrests and imprisonment of doctors and nurses who were treating people wounded in demonstrations. on the anniversary of the uprising on 14 february, new violence erupted as bahraini security forces violently suppressed peaceful demonstrations and injured several activists. it is welcome that the united states has suspended the export of arms and other equipment to bahrain for the purpose of violent repression against civilians. the recommendations of the independent examination board have also been taken seriously. however, the harsh sentences handed down to human rights activists without proper justification and the harsh censorship of the internet were indications of the opposition to reform. protests have traditionally been suppressed by force. the king and the bahraini authorities have repeatedly reiterated their commitment to improving human rights and cooperation with international organisations. it is high time we saw more concrete examples of this.
mr president, the people of bahrain are demanding democratic reforms and respect for fundamental human rights. the demands for improvement of living conditions and respect for rights are not excessive and in no way threaten the bahraini regime. however, instead of listening to the people's legitimate demands, the regime's security forces have continued to use heavy-handed measures against protesters. the use of tear gas and stun grenades against unarmed demonstrators is not justified in any way. bahrain must stop its brutal treatment of protesters. in peaceful demonstrations, no one should be imprisoned for expressing his or her opinion. the bahraini government should instead further support civil activism and civil society. to avoid protests, bahrain needs more democracy, more civil society dialogue and active action to create jobs, especially for young people.
mr president, having personally witnessed the recent history of the balkans as a foreign news correspondent, i cannot underline strongly enough the huge importance of this process for stability and understanding in that region. this is not just an opportunity but a duty for us. it is incumbent upon us to do what we can to silence the remaining voices of chauvinism and intolerant nationalism in serbia. however, we would be foolish to repeat the somewhat lax approach to this round of enlargement that we witnessed in the previous round. therefore i will be voting for amendments that require strict fulfilment of the most important preconditions for membership, including that of ensuring the protection of minorities.
mr. president, the turkish women have done very well in the volleyball championship, and the team is well on its way to the final. turkish journalists, on the other hand, are not doing so well. many have been caught and are still on their way to prison. freedom of the press and freedom of speech are not guaranteed in turkey. there's a lot of room for improvement in human rights. despite the problems, it must be acknowledged that turkey has been an active and constructive foreign policy actor in its own territory. the developments that have taken place are to be welcomed and we hope that turkey will cooperate constructively with the eu, both in this respect and in that respect. there is life outside the enlargement negotiations. this report is excellent and i support the rapporteur's request to open negotiating chapters 23 and 24. (the speaker promised to answer the question on the blue card under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to the blue card question. mr president, turkey has problems with armenia, but we must admit that there has been a lot of progress in that area and turkey has been active and constructive in this matter.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i want to thank derek vaughan for a very good job. our group is very satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations between the groups. we put forward amendments to make sure that we can find savings and greater efficiency. we looked at the election costs for 2014 and at the costs for representation, etc., and all of these have been incorporated into the deal reached by the groups. the outcome is therefore very satisfying. at the same time, we need to bear in mind that we are still increasing the budget in line with what we call inflation: 1.9% plus the costs of incorporating croatia. the budget is continuing to grow in real terms because of croatia. we therefore still see a need to look for additional savings in autumn. we are also convinced that there are possible savings to be made. in view of this, we have previously called for an outside evaluation of the budget. other groups have not been so keen on this, but now an agreement has been mentioned by my socialist colleagues on this working group. this is a good initiative and we support it as another way to tackle the issue of our own costs. we are convinced that we can find more savings. concerning the single seat issue, which mr färm referred to, the broad majority of our group is also in favour of concentrating our work in the one place of work. this would be a good way to save nearly eur 200 million a year, which is far more than we can save with all the other measures we are now taking. i think this proves that this economic time is the right time to find a solution to the situation we are in right now. finally, the commission has proposed that all institutions cut their staff numbers. we should also do so. we therefore regret the fact that the administration is proposing an increase in staff numbers for next year. we need to find a solution to cut down on staff in the long run in order to keep our costs in order.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if voluntary action does not produce results, equal representation of women and men in management positions must be guaranteed in the quota system. one year ago, commissioner viviane reding, responsible for equality, challenged european publicly traded companies to commit to voluntary action to increase the number of women in company management. only 24 companies responded to the survey, and over the past year the proportion of women on company boards has increased only slightly, from 11.8% to 13.7%. the failure of the reding initiative clearly shows that voluntary action is not enough to increase equality in corporate governance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. parliament supported the initiative of mr reding last year and must therefore now call for more decisive action to increase equality. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. the representation of the opposite sex in the management of companies must be 30% by 2015 and 40% by 2020. at the present rate, this will not be achieved until the latter part of this century. equality in decision-making is not only a question of equality but also of quality. the more decision-makers are selected, the more varied and qualitative the decisions. this applies to political decision-making as well as to corporate management.
mr president, i agree with my colleague, michael cashman. this report is good and it raises issues that are important to the citizens. it raises issues which, unfortunately, have rarely, if ever, been on the agenda of summits and heads of state. i want to make two points here, firstly, the rights of the disabled. we know that there are 80 million disabled people in europe who still have many obstacles to mobility and who really need to be improved a lot to make citizens' rights a reality. the second important point to be raised here is this european health card. it entitles us, the citizens of the european union, to receive health care in another country in case of an emergency, but i would argue, i dare to argue, that many finns, many europeans know nothing about this right - that costs are reimbursed, that in case of an emergency, one can turn to the services of a foreign state, to the services of another eu country. the eu and its member states must raise awareness of these issues and remove barriers to disabled people much more effectively than they do today.
mr president, i voted in favour of the creation of this refugee fund, although each member state has its own responsibility for its own refugee policy. the member states must therefore retain their own responsibility for this, but we also need coordinated action at european level, because in many respects this flow of refugees has been uncontrolled. we need this re-positioning that this presentation is talking about. but above all, we must start from the fact that we europeans are supporting the countries from which these people come in the development of democracy, because it is not good for anyone to have to leave his home, his roots. the starting point should be that we should work to ensure that people from these threatened countries can live in their own regions, build democracy there and bring these european values there. but as i said, in this situation where we have an uncontrolled immigration policy at the level of the european union, coordination is needed, but the member states must still retain their own decision-making power as to how much each country will take in.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report. the future of the serbs is in europe. it is also a question of european stability. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime. the wars that followed the break-up of yugoslavia still haunt serbian society, but the younger generation has already grown up in peace and wants a europeanized serbia. the eu's policy of absolutism can, in the worst case, lead to the european flame being extinguished by the serbs, and europe cannot afford this. the council should therefore grant serbia the status of candidate country. serbia is well on its way to europeanisation, both politically and economically, and is a magnet for the entire western balkan region. the gradual integration of serbia, like the other balkan countries, into the european union is a sure guarantee of peace in that region in the future, and would also strengthen the union's lost identity as an area of peace and social justice at a critical moment.
mr president, the european union's most powerful foreign policy tool is the eu membership perspective. the prospect of membership must also be presented in a genuine and credible way to kosovo in order to bring about real change and reform. the european union is committed to defending the multi-ethnic and multi-religious states of the western balkans. it must be based on democratic values, tolerance and multiculturalism. regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations are key conditions for a country wishing to join the eu. good neighbourly relations are also the only condition for stability and security in the western balkans. president ahtisaari's plan is an excellent framework for resolving the conflict in northern kosovo. the territorial and political integrity of kosovo shall be respected and maintained. a genuine democracy and a functioning market economy can only be achieved in a state that respects the rule of law. the fight against corruption and organised crime must therefore be the main priority of the kosovo administration and the eulex mission supporting it.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report. the european union and all its member states and turkey are already interdependent. turkey has not reformed in the agreed manner and on time, and progress in the negotiations has unfortunately been slow. turkey is the only candidate country not to have a visa-free regime. the accessibility of researchers, students and members of civil society to the european union should be facilitated. border control is a stumbling block for turkey. the eu is a major source of illegal immigrants, with turkey and greece being the bottlenecks. turkey also has a role to play in the achievement of lasting peace, democratic development, stability and prosperity in the balkans and the middle east. turkey must find a political solution to the kurdish question. the need for more effective political dialogue. the political, cultural, social and economic opportunities for participation and solidarity of citizens of kurdish origin must be strengthened. children should also have the right to use their mother tongue in school.
i voted in favour of the report. unfortunately, citizens' rights are not always realised in practice, even though they are clearly enshrined in eu law. this is adding to the frustration of europeans with the process of european integration. in order to remove the obstacles to civil rights, it is important to emphasise mobility and education. the european union should also put emphasis on lifelong learning, vocational training and continuing training. education is the primary means of reducing inequality and poverty. the commission should take active action to guarantee the right of all citizens of the union to quality basic and vocational training. the commission should also take into account the needs of particularly vulnerable and marginalised groups, such as the roma and people from third countries. they too have the same civil rights as everyone else. it is also important for the realisation of citizens' rights to strengthen the culture, language, history and values of the various minorities and indigenous groups living in the european union, both within these groups and among the rest of the population.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. there are a number of issues in air transport which are questionable from the point of view of consumer protection. such are, for example, the generally accepted unfair contractual terms relating to the transferability and cancellation of air tickets. i welcome the call for measures to allow minor booking errors to be corrected free of charge and without laborious procedures. in dealing with air passenger rights, particular attention should be paid to the importance of rights awareness and to the simplicity of processes. many passengers do not exercise their rights either because they are not aware of their existence or because they fear cumbersome complaint procedures. this is why the information must be timely and comprehensive. the importance of notification is further emphasised, in particular in the case of disruption of services, such as a flight disruption caused by an ash cloud.
mr president, a year ago in this very hall we discussed the situation in kashgar, a city in the uighur region of china. the commissioner representing the commission and the foreign affairs council in this very room said that the eu is doing everything it can for the region and its people. it is important that the eu keeps its promises and that the work of the commission is also monitored. so i ask now what the high representative has done to make the city of kashgar a unesco world heritage site and how the human rights of the people of this uyghur region have been promoted recently on behalf of the eu. or has the kashgar situation been in folder o?
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the implementation of human and fundamental rights in the european union must be maintained. the union must above all ensure consistency in its human rights policy and be determined to demand respect for rights both within the union and in its relations with third countries. it is important for the sake of exemplarity that the eu accede to the european convention on human rights as soon as possible. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which has been in force for two years, is an instrument which must be used more and more effectively. the report on the implementation of the charter of fundamental rights, which was published this week, shows that the convention has been used more in the courts than before, which is a good thing. however, the report also notes that many citizens still have uncertainties about when the charter will be applied. in order to safeguard the fundamental rights of eu citizens, the equal treatment directive should be adopted as soon as possible. the lack of a prohibition of discrimination outside the workplace leaves out of the protection of the law the most vulnerable groups, such as the elderly.
mr president, it has been pleasant to watch the news about burma recently. in fact, it is one of the few countries in the world where there is clear progress in human rights. of course, there is still a lot to improve, but we know that nothing changes in an instant. the eu is not developing in leaps and bounds either. i would hope that the eu will be able to support burma in all possible ways in the future. if there are difficulties, the eu should be able to support the country to allow this positive development to continue.
in writing. i would like to thank the european parliament for adopting the resolution on burma. i have been following the situation in burma closely for years now and have been very critical at times. at the same time, i have supported eu sanctions to improve the situation. but now it is time to start rewarding burma for its reforms. president u thein sein has done more for peace and democracy than has been done in burma for decades combined. it is now understood in burma that an open, democratic society with respect for human rights is the best option for all. the elections in april showed that the burmese political leadership is ready to make room for aung san suu kyi's party and other opposition groups and that we are witnessing the dawn of a new era. the european parliament has now made a clear concession to burma: it is time for the eu to lift the economic sanctions against burma. when we ask for reforms, and they are made, we must also reward our partners. but the reforms must not stop there. the eu must closely monitor the situation in burma. the real focus of burma is the 2015 elections, which i expect will continue the line already started. until then, we should not lift the ban on arms sales. i therefore ask the high representative to take advantage of the rapprochement brought about by the new diplomatic relations. we must also strengthen our links with the burmese political leadership, the opposition and civil society. at the same time, i hope that the burmese leadership will welcome us with an increasingly open mind.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the european union is currently holding association negotiations with armenia and azerbaijan. this is the first time that parliament has had the opportunity to assess these negotiations and to give its feedback to the honourable commissioner and the commission as a whole. azerbaijan is an important partner for the eu and its member states. it supplies the eu countries with energy and other products, but it is particularly important to us in terms of energy security. of course, the benefits are mutual. that's why these negotiations are taking place. it is also hoped that the association agreement will bring stability and, hopefully, at some stage, a final peace to the region. these negotiations have, of course, been overshadowed by the nagorno-karabakh conflict. unfortunately, the association agreement negotiations will not be able to resolve this major source of instability in the region. that's the job of the minsk group. we hope that our negotiations will not make these negotiations any more difficult, and they certainly will not. i would like to see the minsk group's work accelerated. it hasn't been doing much lately. it is also true that the parties to the conflict, armenia and azerbaijan, need to show a stronger will to reach a peace agreement between the two countries. mr president, mr commissioner, these negotiations will cover a wide range of issues, not just energy and economic issues. human rights are an essential part of that. the development of the economy and cooperation cannot be achieved without respect for human rights. in the field of human rights, we regret to say that there are still major shortcomings. today we have also received reports of arrests and searches without any authorization, and neither parliament nor the commission can and will turn a blind eye to such violations. we expect azerbaijan, as a member of the council of europe, to respect the human rights conventions to which it is a party. he's got a lot of work to do here. the eurovision song contest in baku is a little spicier. it is an honourable task for azerbaijan. like all the other countries that have won the competition, it wants to carry it through with dignity. there have been suggestions that the competition should be boycotted. i'm not in favor of it. i visited a school and asked the youths for their opinion without telling them my own. they wondered why they should boycott if they wanted to have association talks and wanted to cooperate. human rights must be addressed. i would hope that youth exchanges, student exchanges, would be something that the eu would invest in. just as azerbaijan itself is... (speaker interrupted the speaker)
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank my colleague poręba and all the shadow rapporteurs and all those who have contributed to the fact that this report has become better and better along the way. i would also like to thank commissioner fühle for his constructive cooperation. i believe and i know that, since this report was adopted by a large majority in committee, with no one opposing it and three abstaining, it is the wish of all of us that these treaty negotiations should be concluded successfully. the south caucasus region will develop through dialogue and cooperation. it will be safer and human rights will be respected. it has already been mentioned here and i would also like to emphasize that azerbaijan has been independent for 20 years. in 20 years, there has been progress, but it is still a short time to change the entire political system, the entire mindset and the whole human rights mindset. it will take time and it will require cooperation, the eu's emphasis on human rights and democracy and the need to improve these matters during the negotiations. this is how an agreement will be achieved and how people will have a better and more stable life and hopefully peace in the end. the prerequisite for all development is that the tax revenues of the citizens of the state can be used in a useful way, to improve everyday life, and not so much to buy military technology and to continue the supply cycle.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, it is regrettable that the commissioner has not yet had time to listen to our speeches on this subject, because the parliament, under the rapporteur's leadership, has followed closely the positions of the member states on the coordination of social security in crossborder cases. the free movement of labour and the right of citizens to seek employment in another member state is in principle a positive aspect of the internal market. but it also poses challenges for member states in ensuring that people do not fall between the social security systems of the countries in which they live and work, and in preventing the misuse of social security and unemployment protection systems. this regulation does not therefore harmonise social security systems but mainly updates the coordination rules to reflect changes in the member states' legislation. the regulation clarifies the applicable legislation in cases where a person works for several employers in different member states. the applicable legislation is determined by the main job, since it is not in anyone's interest to continually change the applicable legislation because of the periods of work. perhaps the most controversial aspect of the amendment concerns the export of unemployment insurance for the employed, i.e. the fact that an unemployed entrepreneur can obtain unemployment insurance in the country of employment even if such unemployment insurance does not exist in his country of residence. fortunately, the commission's original proposal was improved during the discussions in the council and parliament, so that unemployment protection only applies to genuine cross-border workers who return from the country of employment to the country of residence, as a rule, daily or at least once a week, and who are available for the labour market in the country of employment. similarly, the conditions for unemployment benefit are also determined by the country of employment. it is important that we come back to this in two years' time and re-examine whether this is causing problems between member states.
rapporteur. − madam president, i do not agree with mr landsbergis. i think that the normal text is correct.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i voted in favour of this important report. democracy, the rule of law, justice and accountability are the best safeguards for human rights, fundamental freedoms, tolerance and equality. the european union must strive to become a more credible actor in third countries. this requires consistency between internal and external policies. i call for the avoidance of double standards to be made even more clear. each country must be seen as a whole, which is why the european external action service should develop country-specific human rights strategies. i also call for the eu's human rights policy to be comprehensive. free and fair elections are only the first step in the transition to democracy. europe must be a supporter of the development of democracy. but democracy cannot be imposed from outside, it must always be born of the will of the people. europe must take action to ensure that civil rights and fundamental freedoms are not jeopardised or undermined by the economic crisis.
it is very important, mr president, that the european union clearly stands by its commitment to defend human rights in all circumstances and the right to life of every human being. unfortunately, this strong pro-life view is not reflected clearly enough in this report. many of the paragraphs also contained elements which did not explicitly confirm the human rights dimension. in any case, this report is better than nothing. it is good that from time to time we stop to reflect on these matters which are important to us and try to find a common thread for the advancement of human rights in those countries which do not yet know what human rights are. europe must also be more credible in its own actions. we still have many people within the european union who are living without human rights. the romans are one example of this in many ways. we must therefore be clearer and more determined in our efforts to ensure that no human rights violations take place within the european union. i would like to conclude by saying that religious minorities, especially christians, have also been ignored. many of them are currently experiencing, particularly in the middle east, the trampling of their human rights. the rapporteur could have taken this aspect more seriously.
mr president, i would like to thank mr jäätteenmäe for his excellent report. the negotiation of the eu-azerbaijan association agreement is an important instrument for achieving change, reform and modernisation. in the long term, cooperation will also deepen economic integration and legislative approximation with the eu. at the same time, it is important to develop cultural relations. this will help to influence the development of democracy more comprehensively. the eurovision song contest in azerbaijan will bring the country's situation to the attention of the media, at least for the moment. the european union should make the most of this opportunity, while demanding improvements in the human rights situation in the country. azerbaijan has continued to unjustly detain and falsely accuse youth activists and journalists. thousands of people have also been driven from their homes, as entire neighborhoods have been razed by the government. the european external action service shall systematically monitor the human rights situation in azerbaijan, including after the television cameras have left after the eurovision song contest.
i voted in favour of this report. it was a little clumsy. there were over 50 delegates standing here, but we still went ahead. i'm sure we'll be back to this. we are human beings, and human mistakes like this happen. i would like to say that i am following this report on the situation in azerbaijan. the rapporteur, mr jäätteenmäki, has done a good and thorough job. it is very important to raise the human rights situation. i myself believe that by supporting the development of human rights and democracy in azerbaijan, we can also strengthen azerbaijan and its position as an international actor. azerbaijan is known for its oil resources. the azerbaijani authorities have had a desire to westernize and break away from the tradition that they have formed during the long period of communism as an old part of the soviet union. in any case, cooperation and strong efforts are also needed to achieve a peaceful settlement of the situation in nagorno-karabakh.
mr president, the european union must aim at stability and democratic development in the whole of the south caucasus. the multilateral partnership offered by the eu should be developed in parallel with the negotiations on association agreements. the eastern partnership strengthens multilateral relations and provides excellent tools for the development of democracy, the rule of law and civil society. armenia is committed to the values and principles of the european union. these are democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights. the unresolved conflict in nagorno-karabakh, however, undermines the stability, security and development of armenia and the whole of the south caucasus region. the new eu strategy for neighbouring countries in transition is an important step towards more proactive conflict resolution. in addition to new solutions, action needs to be stepped up and existing forms of negotiation should be supported. the eusr for the south caucasus shall play a primary role in promoting a peaceful resolution of the conflict in the region.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be more involved in the fight against terrorism and to promote the fight against organised crime. parliament's powers in human rights matters have been considerably increased by the lisbon treaty, in particular through the adoption of trade agreements. we members must take responsibility for this. i would like to stress the importance of two sets of issues in particular. there's been a lot going on in our neighborhood lately. i visited egypt in november and talked to people who are concerned about their personal integrity and freedom in the new egypt. as the arab spring has shown, the eu must support individuals and groups who want to build their societies in a way that respects democracy and human rights. the representatives of civil society must be brought to the table in accordance with good governance. this systematic involvement could be facilitated by the civil society monitoring mechanism we are proposing. i would also like to pay particular attention to the section on human rights defenders. members of parliament have consistently shown their support, for example, through statements, monitoring of legal proceedings, prison visits and other concrete means. however, it is now time to implement the eu guidelines on human rights defenders, and the hr should follow the process closely. we members of this house will be playing our cards by dealing with particularly flagrant cases of individual violence in our urgent resolutions on human rights.
the question of the blue card. mr president, first of all, it is a great thing that representatives of countries in crisis are not the only ones speaking here. it is sometimes a little depressing to think that europe is just spain or greece or portugal. europe is also germany and finland and it is latvia, it is holland. i'd like to ask a question to udo bullmann. many experts believe that it would be important for europe as a whole if wages were raised in germany. what do you think?
in writing. the eu has been toothless in the face of tax havens. so have other international actors, such as the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd) and the g20 group of the world's richest countries. i have urged the european commission to take swift action to tackle tax evasion. it is good that the commission has now finally put forward something concrete. the commission's proposal for the country-by-country reporting of the accounts of listed companies in the mining and forestry sectors is not sufficient, however. better accounting laws are needed to oblige all companies and foundations to keep country-specific accounts. i am pleased that the position of parliament, which will be voted on tomorrow, has improved along the way. it is not enough to criticise agreements between eu member states and third countries. for example, the recent agreement between germany and switzerland to combat tax evasion is estimated to bring germany up to eur 10 billion in additional revenue next year. we must try to get all eu countries to sign up to the agreements. but if that is not practical, then, say, an extra $10 billion in tax revenue is already much better than nothing at all.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for a good report. our group is also very supportive of the lines taken in the committee; this is a possibility to actually enhance the internal market and to ease the administrative burdens of companies which really want to push for cross-border activities in their field. in general i think that the development in committee has taken this report in the right direction. we can of course debate whether it is a good decision or not to make this scheme compulsory for companies, but if we want to actually succeed, i am convinced that the voluntary scheme is not necessarily going to activate as many companies as one would hope. the discussion about whether we should harmonise corporate taxation or not does not belong here, but the fact of the matter is that we already have the minimum and maximum type of taxation solutions, for instance in the field of value-added tax, and we should definitely consider this. but that is another report. last by not least, i am happy that we were able to change the way we are weighing the different ways of distributing, because having too much weight on sales is not going to give us a good result for countries that are competing within the export sector.
mr president, i will say two things, one very realistic and one extremely idealistic. the realistic thing is that we have to praise marianne thyssen for doing something finally to take us from talk to action. i think every cloud has a silver lining and here i see such a case, where economic crises have led us from talk to action. this ccctb is a chance to stimulate businesses and at least do something about europe’s competitiveness collectively. but then, idealistically speaking – and i know we are maybe 100 years from this – i would like to see this as the first step towards harmonising much more. this act does not have anything to do with harmonising the tax rates but perhaps one day it will be seen as the first step towards that. it is not realistic in today’s europe and in today’s situation, and to many ears i know it sounds naïve, but idealism is basically what we are here for.
madam president, i have been sitting here since 9 o’clock this morning and i am amazed: i have not heard the words ‘law enforcement’. i went to get a cup of coffee a few minutes ago. maybe during those few minutes it was mentioned. as mr kirkhope said in his excellent remarks, he is not an american. i am not an american either, but i have spent several years of my life living in the united states, and i am afraid that some elements in this discussion today reflect a grave misunderstanding of motives and intentions. i would like to ask some of the speakers on the left side of the chamber whether, if someone comes to your house, you are interested in what they are going to do there. are you not interested in what their intentions and motives are? i think this is absurd. i would be interested. i do not understand the whole question. i am going to vote for this; it is pretty clear.
mr president, this is a very difficult issue, one that pits the protection of citizens' personal data against the fight against terrorism and the right of citizens to security. it is vital that the eu establishes a strong and long-term partnership with the us. the means to combat terrorism and other serious international crimes must be effective. at the same time, however, it is important to remember the respect for the fundamental and human rights of citizens. i voted against the agreement because it contains deficiencies which i cannot accept. i see the problem first of all in the broadly defined purpose of the pnr data. for example, terrorism is not sufficiently defined in the treaty. there are also shortcomings in data retention periods and in the hierarchy of protection of personal data in the event of further transfers to third countries.
in writing. - i voted for the passenger information act. on the authority of the lisbon treaty, we rejected the previous version in may 2010 and called on the commission to negotiate stricter data protection conditions. the agreement voted on today is a compromise, not a complete one in terms of content, but a significant improvement in terms of data protection and cooperation with the us authorities. the strong voices of the left wing of parliament have offered no realistic counterpart. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. this more fragmented practice would not be in anyone's interest. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. as commissioner cecilia malmström again pointed out, this database has been used to catch many terrorists and many other criminals. this agreement is a real step forward in the protection of passenger data and people.
in writing. − the pnr agreement entered into force between the eu and the us in 2007 was renegotiated. parliament rejected the terms of the agreement and ordered the european commission to hold further negotiations with the united states on the terms of the agreement. the most important concern in the negotiations was the improvement of the exercise of citizens' rights in the area of privacy. the revised agreement now in force provides for a maximum retention period of 15 years and allows eu authorities to review the implementation of the agreement in the us. i would assess the success of this agreement primarily in the light of its ability to help the partner country in the fight against terrorism and crime and to guarantee satisfactory civil rights for european air passengers travelling to the united states. in voting on the recommendation to approve the agreement on the transfer of pnr data, and given that the rejection of this recommendation would mean a no-deal situation with the united states, i strongly believe that a no-deal situation also guarantees the rights of air passengers better than a no-deal situation. i would also like to stress that i think it is natural for the european union to support the activities of the us security services in the fight against international terrorism and crime. cooperation in this area is also in the best interests of the eu and its member states. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendation for the adoption of this agreement.
in writing. − in addition to the continuing economic uncertainty, the eu economy is facing major structural challenges. investment barometers show that europe is already threatened in the coming years by a large-scale industrial exodus to areas with lower production costs. in addition, in the longer term, the change in the age structure of the eu territory makes it significantly more difficult to manage public finances successfully. the above reasons pose a particular challenge to policy-making. decisions at eu level must do everything possible to promote the flourishing of entrepreneurship, which is the basis of the welfare of societies. the common consolidated corporate tax base is a step in the right direction. the commission notes that the tax advisor did not provide any evidence that the tax advisor had been able to demonstrate that the tax advisor had been able to demonstrate that the tax advisor had been able to demonstrate that the tax advisor had been able to demonstrate that the tax advisor had been able to demonstrate that the tax advisor had been able to demonstrate that the tax advisor had been able to demonstrate that the tax advisor had been able to demonstrate that the tax advisor had been able to demonstrate that the tax advisor had been able to demonstrate that the tax advisor had been able to demonstrate that the tax advisor had been able to demonstrate that the tax advisor had been able to demonstrate that the tax advisor had been able to demonstrate that the tax advisor had been able to demonstrate that the tax advisor had been able to demonstrate that the tax advisor had been able to demonstrate that the tax advisor had been able to demonstrate that the tax advisor had been able to demonstrate that the tax advisor had been able to demonstrate that the tax advisor was able to demonstrate that the tax advisor was not a tax advisor. the implementation of the reform will thus also encourage small and medium-sized enterprises to start business outside their home borders in the eu. the ccctb, with its more favourable and clear corporate tax system, also encourages foreign investors to invest in the eu. in view of the opposition to the proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base in some member states, it is important to provide for the widest possible base for the introduction of the system. i voted in favour of the thyssen report also because it includes the condition of a roadmap for the progressive introduction of the common consolidated corporate tax base for non-smes.
in writing. − the european commission's proposal for a reform of energy taxation contains the concept of proportionality, which, if implemented, would require member states to respect the relative difference in the minimum tax rate for different forms of energy. in practice, this would mean, if it were to happen, a clear tightening of the taxation of diesel oil so that its tax rate would in future be in a calculated ratio to other fuels corresponding to current levels. the commission proposal would have the effect of automatically raising the minimum tax rate on diesel oil by 9% from 2025 onwards. such a tax on diesel, based on a model, would be both artificial and, above all, destructive for the eu economy. the negative effects would be a sharp increase in transport costs and a disruption of the european automotive industry. the decision would also be a false message to the millions of european consumers who have been guided and influenced by numerous incentives and decisions in recent years to invest in diesel as a vehicle fuel, especially because of its lower co2 emissions. the eu economy cannot afford this decision. i voted in favour of the amendments to the lulling report which reverse the principle of proportionality proposed by the commission and allow the introduction of a double taxation system for professional and private hauliers, which is being considered by the member states.
mr president, lfa support is very important if we really want to preserve a diversified agricultural production throughout europe. this is also a very important question for food safety. the natural conditions in different parts of europe are very different. i come from finland and we still have a metre of snow on the ground, whereas in central europe the ground is already turning green. these biophysical factors should be the first and foremost consideration when we define lfa. if the growing conditions are poor or the growing season is short or the climate is very cold, these factors should be predominant. socio-economic issues are also important, but they could be better addressed in direct aid, i.e. in the first pillar. it is of course important that the process is transparent and that parliament also receives information on these maps.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur and to say at this point that i am very happy, both as standing rapporteur for research in the committee and also on behalf of our group, that we were finally able to reach a result which enabled us to finance iter for a while longer. the whole process regarding the financing of iter has been quite difficult for us. first of all it proved that the council was not living up to all its obligations and even less to its political promises of actually putting emphasis on research. at the same time we saw a development whereby the council wanted to actually cut money from heading 1a, a heading where the current framework programme for research is more or less 100% implemented. more than anything it is supporting the 2020 strategy, etc. as you know, there was a suggestion that money for iter should be taken from this part of the budget. we refused to let this happen and were persistent and very united as a parliament. the committee on budgets was also very firm on this. in the light of all this the outcome is fairly good, but at the same time i want to underline that this is not – at least from our group’s point of view – an ideal outcome. however, taking into account the discussion i do not think we could have achieved anything better. it is easy to agree with previous speakers regarding the future. iter is an important project and has huge potential. at the same time i think the past year has shown that we need to have a better view on how iter is governed, because we should not end up in situations where a big project that affects taxpayers’ money and also affects other research funds, as we have seen with this solution, is so badly managed that we have to use solutions like this to save the project. this has not been handled well. it also proves that in the next mff we need a more solid and more ring-fenced solution for financing iter so that we will not be here in five years or in three years doing the same thing we are doing tonight: having a report to transfer funds for the iter project. another worrying factor that i might mention in this context is the fact that the council was sleeping on this. we were able to reach a final agreement, and after that apparently some of the delegations in the council still wanted to go back on the agreement. this is not a healthy development. i am happy that they understood that this was not a desirable outcome. in the end, the council will apparently stick to this agreement, as will we. i hope we can learn from this, particularly because horizon 2020, which will be the eighth framework programme, needs all the money it can get. this will bring growth to europe. therefore in the future we should not have solutions which, practically speaking, mean that we have less money for certain research projects because others are badly governed. i would like to thank the rapporteur and other colleagues for their good cooperation. considering the circumstances, the outcome on this matter is very good.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for a good report, but if i may, i would like to say a few critical words about the thinking on climate change in general. when we talk about climate, all too often we talk about numbers and markets. i think that in climate change, we should put people at the center. the people who encounter this in their daily lives. for the most disadvantaged women in the developing world, for example, climate change is not just about market failure; it's about how it affects everyday life. this is something that's forgotten in the mainstream. climate change is about people, and only secondarily about numbers and markets.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs leinen, for her excellent work. as my colleagues have already said, the eu's seventh environmental programme should be adopted as soon as possible. we are constantly making decisions which affect the environment under other headings, as the report says. one of these is agricultural policy, which affects biodiversity, water resources and climate, among other things. for example, the future of the baltic sea environment is to a large extent decided by decisions on common agriculture. the baltic sea is one of the most polluted seas in the world, and its biggest problem is pollution, which is mainly caused by agriculture. if the phosphorus and nitrogen that flow from our fields into the rivers and seas is not radically reduced, there is no hope of improving the baltic sea's condition and toxic bluefin tuna will continue to float on its surface in the summer. the environment and the economy are not opposites, as the commission's report published this week shows.
mr president, i supported my colleague's report because jobs in the future will require more and more higher education. at present, only 26% of the european workforce has a tertiary education qualification. at the same time, we hear research that education does not necessarily guarantee employment today. there are more masters than ever before, and doctorates are being awarded at a record rate. workers must continually update their skills and knowledge as they go about their work. this underlines the importance of lifelong learning. higher education institutions should provide people with the skills and knowledge needed for the future labour market. the skills taught should also reflect the reality of the labour market. in this case, the young graduate's chances of finding employment in the field for which his or her degree has prepared him or her must be supported.
i voted in favour of this report, which is very important in principle. you see, climate change is not just a matter of our environment and our well-being, but its effects are particularly severe on women in developing countries. women make a significant part of the consumption decisions of families all over the world in all areas of life. women are discriminated against in environmental, economic and family policies. the role of women must therefore be translated into a strong role of influence. it is encouraging that studies show that women are interested in making sustainable consumption decisions. but this is not enough. women must also be given a voice in society when it comes to climate change action. all the member states of the european union must give greater support to the achievement of this objective, particularly in the developing countries.
mr president, women are more likely than men to be in a lower income bracket and to be in a vulnerable position and to be marginalised globally. as a result, they are also more sensitive to the threats and harms of climate change in their daily lives and in the way they organise their lives. on the other hand, women also have a key role to play in building sustainable consumption and lifestyles, sustainable urban planning and combating climate change. it is therefore, as this report says, particularly important that women are able to participate more fully in decision-making and in making climate policy choices. i am pleased that the political empowerment of women in climate policy has also become a central concern of this parliament.
mr president, the disappearance of the safety net for biodiversity at an alarming rate, which is accelerating, requires urgent action and time is running out. the position of parliament is not even ambitious enough in this respect, but i am pleased with the form it has taken since the votes. i regret that the majority of the members did not support the motion for a resolution calling for the protection of the soil. i am deeply sorry that i have had to vote against the majority of my group on these questions, but i believe that the loss of biodiversity is such a serious threat to the existence of all mankind that i personally could not have acted otherwise.
madam president, congratulations to my dear colleague niebler. there is no better day in the calendar than schuman day to express the joy that i feel about this agreement on roaming on mobile networks. this is what the european union is all about. we brought the whole of europe under the same ceiling; we gave the people of europe something concrete that we all can feel in our pockets and we – this parliament – played a decisive role in bringing prices down for everyone in europe who uses their mobile phone when travelling inside the union. this is a prime example of how this parliament serves the citizens of the european union and i am proud of it. thank you.
in writing. in these times, it is not customary to expect good news from the eu. however, yesterday's europe day was marked by good news for the eu: the use of mobile phones abroad will fall again next summer. we can understand the absurd downward shock of thousands of euros that some have encountered when roaming settings have been left on and the occasional visit to the internet has become expensive. i know this because i was responsible for the regulation on roaming in the committee on the internal market. the new regulation will enter into force in july and will reduce prices to at least half of their current level by 2014. it sets ceilings for roaming calls, text messages and, for the first time, data. it also obliges telephone operators to inform consumers by text message when they are approaching their own price ceilings when outside the eu. this will also prevent price shocks outside the eu, where reasonable cap prices cannot be legislated. in addition, the regulation introduces structural changes to promote the desired level of competition in the roaming market. the idea of the eu was the principle of the four freedoms: the aim is to remove barriers to the free movement of workers, goods, services and capital. now those obstacles were removed again. in the age of smartphones, it has been frustrating to have to shut down their minds just when they needed it most, when traveling abroad in new circumstances. soon you'll have the courage to check maps and timetables and check for the best tips right where you're going.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, monitoring is important. i congratulate the committee and the rapporteur on the fact that, among other things, efsa has been persuaded to improve its rules of procedure. however, it is also fair that, once the questions have been satisfactorily answered and any errors corrected, a discharge is granted. here's the situation with the epa. the alleged behaviour of the eea director has been investigated and no behaviour has been found. the criticism of public procurement has been directed at the green facade. it was a work of art, and it was acquired under the rules of the art. the green façade was a very successful information project for the biodiversity year, with over half a million people viewing it. the contact price was about 50 cents. it was voted the third best biodiversity awareness project in europe by the guardian magazine and the best tourist destination in the country by the danes. the agency should be congratulated and not criticized for such a successful communication.
the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. mr president, we are talking about the 2010 budget, its control and discharge. citizens have a right to know where their tax money and tax money are going. the use of public funds must be transparent and open. i am speaking on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and i would like to raise one question about the future. it is important that we know how the external relations budget is spent. the commission and the council could consider making the development funds, all the money in the external relations budget, available on a daily and weekly basis via the internet. it is a modern tool that would enable citizens to see the good that their tax dollars do in poor areas of africa, for example. i would also like to raise a problem which does not concern the external relations budget either, but which is a problem. it is truly incomprehensible that the commission has spent the last six years referring to the rules agreed by common accord and hiding from parliament matters relating to the use of council funds.
mr president, i think it is very important that when we, as members of the european union and of this parliament, are thinking about european infrastructure, we choose decentralisation over centralisation. that is why i voted in favour of this report. it is essential to ensure that the more remote regions also continue to enjoy connectivity and business opportunities. this applies to both business and citizen mobility. environmental factors are also important. it is of the utmost importance that the regional, social and economic aspects of reform and development of the european union be taken into account. i think that they have been well presented in this report. it is important to ensure that even the most sparsely populated areas in europe have adequate transport links. the growth of air traffic also requires that air traffic can continue to operate from these regional airports.
i wanted to vote in favour of postponement in this report. i think that the postponement is necessary because we have encountered certain difficulties with the environment agency. the problem has been that the director has simultaneously been a board member of a well-known ngo and has funded projects with over eur 30 000. i see the same problem with the fda's discharge. two members and several other employees have allegedly been linked to the food industry. reference is also made to the expenditure on meetings of the executive board, which was three times higher than that of the second largest agency. i was hoping that, as a result of the postponement, we would really clarify the situation and thus gain transparency in european decision-making.
mr president, i was responsible for this regulation in the committee on the internal market and naturally voted in favour of it. in a time when we are not used to expecting good news from the eu, this regulation is one of the good news for eu consumers, as their mobile phone use will be cheaper next summer. the regulation will enter into force at the beginning of next july and will reduce the ceiling prices by 2014 to at least half of the current level. it sets out the requirements for structural changes. from the beginning of 2014, consumers will be able to choose a separate roaming provider in addition to their home provider. the regulation also requires telephone operators to inform consumers by text message when they are approaching their own price ceilings, even when the consumer is outside the eu. this is to prevent the downturn shocks that have shocked eu citizens in recent years. some telephone operators have already taken note of this need in the last year and have offered their customers low-cost roaming packages. as structural changes take effect, it is to be hoped that prices will decrease as the market develops and that no new caps will be needed in the future.
mr president, the issue of roaming is a very important and significant one. this is one aspect of our work that european citizens are really following and seeing in concrete terms the impact of our work on their own telephone bills. when we talk about mobility in the european union and really try to strengthen the european single market area, it is very important that we also get closer to each other in telecommunications through these roaming charges. many european travellers have been surprised by the large drop in arrivals from different countries. it is therefore a good idea to find a more uniform price system in the single market and thus also to approach consumers. this is a very good reform, a very good step in the right direction. and as we all know, this can only be improved and improved by deepening telecommunications cooperation so that throughout europe we can indeed achieve competitive and even more favourable prices, so that telecommunications do not become a barrier to trade and to people's interactions.
in writing. - i supported the report on regional airports, but i would like to point out that legislative coordination would also be needed in this case. we have substantially weakened the operating conditions of regional airports by introducing rules for the emission trading of air transport, which favoured large aircraft and key routes. moreover, this emissions trading is part of a unilateral climate policy which is damaging not only our competitiveness but also the environment by creating competitive disadvantages for european airlines which have done their job well. now that the weaknesses of unilateral climate policy have been revealed, it is unlikely that any such legislation would pass in this house. unfortunately, the eu seems to lack the political humility to withdraw failed legislation.
mr president, the pursuit of peace and social justice has been the eu's guiding principle from the outset, and all this can only be achieved if the eu can make its internal market work. the european union is full of countless possibilities, but there is also the danger that we will destroy our own possibilities. in this respect, the busuttil report takes a position on a very important issue, namely the implementation of legislation. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment. this is particularly the case in taxation and environmental matters. it is important to note that the consequences of poor enforcement are not only felt by the citizens of the member state concerned, but also by the other member states of the eu's single internal market. if we are to promote eu cohesion, economic growth and the functioning of the internal market, we should be able to implement directives and regulations much more quickly than we are able to do today. if member states are not willing to implement, for example, environmental legislation, how will the eu achieve, for example, the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, as regards a resource and energy efficient europe? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it is also worth asking how we can ask citizens to believe in and also commit themselves to the eu's single internal market if the member states and even the decision-makers in the different member states are not willing to do so. for example, eu legislation aims to improve the business environment for consumers and smes. however, a better environment is difficult to achieve without reforms and common legislation. for this reason, we should be prepared to intervene in some way, if necessary, in the activities of member states which are not willing to follow the rules of the game agreed upon jointly. if the member states which are not following the rules are not dealt with, the future of the internal market will be fragmentation rather than unity. this is also the case in the current crisis in europe. it is a question of morality and ethics, whether all the member states, from the largest to the smallest, are really prepared to commit themselves to the decisions taken jointly.
mr president, the key issue is how to get out of the economic crisis, because the outlook is very bad in europe. it may be the opposite of what you want, commissioner. it could be that these 24 million small businesses are laying people off and creating 24 million new unemployed. perhaps most worryingly, as member states rebalance their economies, vat is now being raised in almost all countries, making it difficult for small service businesses. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. the commission must therefore make an effort to get out of this economic crisis quickly, and the member states must be involved, everything else is less relevant.
the question of the blue card. mr president, i have a question for mr mauro, if i may. i would first of all like to say that he has struck the heart of the matter by stressing the principles of the rule of law, which are at the heart of the european union, but i also think it is not worth underestimating the fact that there are still six weeks to go before these football matches. now ukraine could show its opposition on human rights issues. in the european union, for example, barroso may have announced that he would not be taking part in these elections. does mr mauro think it is right that these six weeks are now being used to put pressure on ukraine to make progress on human rights?
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the report identifies the key factors affecting safety. the report's main objective is to strengthen police and judicial cooperation in the eu area, which is seen as critical to maintaining and developing security. the clear division of tasks between the different authorities is particularly emphasised. the report rightly calls for greater attention to be paid to the inextricable interplay between the internal and external dimensions of security. in finnish, this means all those security threats that are traditional (organized crime, violence, unrest) or equally more modern, such as environmental, economic and corporate crime. the report also stresses that the assessment of these security threats and the implementation of measures to combat them must involve not only the authorities of the member states but also the european parliament and the relevant eu agencies. the report also stresses the importance of combating terrorism and recognises that it is one of the priorities of the eu's internal security strategy. i was therefore able to vote in favour of the borsellino report with a safe mind.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of consumers' interests. the importance of the report is underlined by technological developments. the technological development of electronic services is moving so fast that not all citizens have the opportunity or the ability to keep up with it. this group includes, for example, the elderly. younger consumers, on the other hand, are more susceptible to the effects of advertising. it is therefore essential to protect children and young people from, for example, aggressive, deceptive and alcohol-related advertising. ultimately, the internal market like the eu as a whole is for the people. for this reason, the internal market and economic growth should not be achieved at the expense of disadvantaged consumers.
in writing. −i voted in favour of the 2020 outlook for women in turkey report because i have been following the situation of women in turkey with concern for a long time. the european parliament is not the only one to have reported on this. according to a report by un women, violence against women is more prevalent in turkey than in europe and the united states. there are many women who are the victims of honor killings every day. the employment rate for women is also alarmingly low. fortunately, there is a growing awareness of this issue in turkey and the activity of ngos in particular is admirable. the turkish government has also done a lot to tackle the problem, and many eu countries could learn from this. turkey has a good legislative framework for improving the status of women and the government has developed national action plans to eradicate violence against women, improve education and literacy for women and girls, and increase women's employment opportunities. for example, the gender gap in primary education has almost disappeared. the biggest problem is the implementation of the plans and the lack of cooperation between the turkish government and civil society. the report makes proposals on issues such as education for women and girls, labour market opportunities and political decision-making, and violence against women and girls. the report commends turkey for certain reforms, such as the creation of the office of minister for family and social affairs and the equality committee. the report also criticises the stereotypes that are deeply rooted in turkish society. i hope that the turkish government will pay particular attention to the implementation of its action plans in the future.
mr president, minister wammen was right to say that homophobia is a stain on europe's charter of values, and i also thank commissioner reding for his clear commitment to tackling this issue. the european union is appreciated in the world precisely because it is committed to the rule of law and human rights, and that is why all the countries of the european union must ensure that our legislation is in order, that there is no discriminatory legislation, but also that hidden discrimination, stigmatisation, exclusion and marginalisation are brought to an end. this is a very important matter, especially for young people. i thanked commissioner reding and minister wammen earlier, but we can also thank president obama, who is the first us president to now approve same-sex marriage, and this is also a step forward.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first of all i would like to warmly thank all the colleagues who have participated in this work for their excellent cooperation. secondly the rationale behind the financial transaction tax is worthy of great support. the ftt is needed for better transparency; to curb speculation and, in this way, to decrease systemic risk; to boost own resources and revenues; to encourage long-term investments; to cut down the pressure on other taxes; and to ensure a fair contribution from the financial sector. for this, it needs to have a model which delivers the targets. so that means it covers broadly both all markets and all financial instruments. a uniform capital allowance-based stamp duty would leave out up to 70% of financial markets; that could not deliver the targets of the financial transaction tax which has been proposed by the commission. the report and the message we are adopting today send a clear signal to the council. the financial transaction tax has broad support, not only in this house but also amongst our citizens. even though the negotiations are difficult, i would like to encourage the council to take this message seriously and to shoulder its responsibility. it should try to find an approach enabling it to establish an all-inclusive, residence-based financial transaction tax for europe. the model proposed by the commission and advocated in this report is too good to be thrown away lightly.
mr president, we all seem to agree on the fact that europe needs growth. i guess all of us know that growth comes through investment and positive capital flows. that is why i am very sceptical about the proposal on the table. i am one of those who are convinced that this proposal will hamper growth, and that is the last thing we need in this situation. i understand all of those who call for taxes on the financial sector. some have pointed out that the financial sector does not pay vat, etcetera. that is true and that is why we need to look at intelligent ways of taxing the financial sector, but this proposal that is on the table is not an intelligent way of taxing the financial sector. it is the last thing we need in the current financial situation. symbolism in politics might look good in the eyes of the electorate but, in this case, simply doing something symbolic without a fiscal impact on europe will actually have a negative impact. that is something which even the commission’s own impact assessment showed.
for the alde group mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr david martin, for his excellent cooperation. the eu needs good governance, transparent governance and democratic governance. this includes the right of access to legislative documents. this is being negotiated at the moment and it does not look good, because the commission and the council are against it. but now we are going to deal with the second dimension, namely the powers of parliament to control the administration through the committee of inquiry. this is political control, not judicial control, and that distinction must be borne in mind, but parliament must have a strong right to such political control. i do not think that this means - as the commissioner has said - that national officials and eu officials should be placed on an equal footing. i am not in favour of national officials being in the same position here in parliament as you commissioners, for example. nor will you be consulted by committees of inquiry in national parliaments in the same way as national officials. there's a little difference. it is important, however, that parliament has a strong role in the monitoring of the various institutions. only then can we strengthen citizens' confidence in this eu action, and there is much to be done. i hope that, once this committee of inquiry is established and its work is strengthened, it will be used - as it has been until now - rarely, deliberately and only in very important cases.
mr president, indeed more reciprocity is needed in trade between the european union and china. i greet with great pleasure the work done by the rapporteur marielle de sarnez. perhaps the most harmful obstacle to balancing our trade with china is the difficulty that european companies face when trying to invest in china. without achieving the same terms for europe in this respect, we are doomed to an ever-increasing imbalance in our economic relations with china. equally important for us is fair market access. european firms must have access to the chinese market on the same terms as chinese firms have access to the european market. we also need new tools for greater transparency. under-valuation of the yuan and the fact that it is non-convertible hamper our efforts to have more open and honest trading with that country. for all these reasons it was clear to me that i should vote in favour of this report.
mr president, rarely has the international community been more unanimous on the means of promoting peace than in the conflict between sudan and south sudan. the african union has made a significant breakthrough in the form of a road map which was unanimously endorsed by the un security council in a resolution. on the eu side, the foreign affairs council, the president of the council and the high representative have all urged the parties to commit to this roadmap for peace. the key elements of this un resolution are to get the parties to establish a 10 km demilitarised border zone, activate joint inspection and control mechanisms there and start peace negotiations without preconditions. the sudanese leadership, however, seems to be playing games and is always putting new conditions on the opening of these peace talks. of course, this is only first aid. in the longer term, the question of the border, the distribution of oil revenues and ethnic disputes must be resolved. but the most urgent thing is to help ordinary citizens. more than half of south sudan's population, some 4.7 million people, suffer from food shortages. the un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs fears that south sudan could be plunged into even greater misery. another problem is the poor infrastructure that makes it difficult for that humanitarian aid to get into the country. the constant influx of refugees from the north to the south adds to the burden on this new, fragile state.
in writing. the situation in sudan and south sudan has been serious since the south's independence. in recent days, however, the parties to the conflict have taken steps in the right direction. it is important that the negotiations are put back on track. the parties shall take concrete steps to implement the mbekki panel roadmap. i also support the resolution adopted by the security council on 2 may 2012 on possible sanctions if the parties do not comply with the roadmap. both sides must end the armed activities in abyein province, the oil crisis must be resolved and a consensus reached on the issues of nationality. it is great that the parties have managed to cooperate in creating an air bridge between sudan and south sudan, which has enabled many to return to their home regions before the rainy season. progress has also been made on the question of nationality. i hope we will soon see similar progress on the oil crisis and abye. it would also be essential that humanitarian workers could access the abye region via sudan, as this is now only possible from south sudan. we must not forget that there are still hundreds of thousands of refugees in the region. the eu is also calling for the release of all political prisoners and for the release of all political prisoners.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr gerben-jan gerbrandy, for her excellent work. improving resource efficiency, that is, producing wealth with less use of natural resources, is simply essential if we want industrial societies to be able to continue to exist. the fact that the environment commissioner, mr potočnik, has made this a specific subject of his work is welcome, and so is the commission's road map. it is less welcome that in over two years the commission has not yet made any concrete proposals on this subject. for example, the idea of making the recycling of metal drinks packaging more efficient by means of mortgages, which works very well in my own country at least, being extended to the eu as a whole, has not made any progress. the most important part of the report by the committee on the environment is the requirement for clear and measurable indicators and sectoral targets. we've all learned that it takes something like this to really make something happen. if the objectives are kept to a general level, they will remain mere words. it is important to achieve an absolute reduction in the use of virgin natural resources in particular. it is not enough to reduce the consumption of natural resources in relation to the amount of production, if at the same time the total consumption of natural resources increases. there are many things that need to be done, and one of them is to make recycling more efficient. it is paradoxical and absurd that there is so much political talk about the availability of rare earths, yet at the same time we recycle less than one percent of them. for example, a ton of recycled electronic equipment may contain 15 times as much gold as a ton of ordinary gold ore. so a ton of recycled cell phones can save 15 tons of gold ore, and many other minerals. the reverse of this wasteful use of natural resources is the mining boom, which is also seen in my own country, which is a bit like cheese in the hole, especially in the north. sadly, some mines have become infamous for emitting pollutants into the environment that are tens or even tens of times higher than permitted levels. anything we can do to improve resource efficiency and recycling efficiency will also reduce any environmental damage associated with mining.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr gerben-jan gerbrandya, for his excellent report, and i can agree with him on many points. i am particularly pleased that the importance of recycling and reuse of materials is absolutely at the centre of this report. if we think about the recycling of waste at the moment in europe, we still have countries where household waste ends up in landfills at 100% and in that sense we have a lot to do in europe together on this issue. it is also good that the report takes account of the recycling of food waste. if we think about the food chain and its resource efficiency, this question is very important. the gerbrady report also stresses the role of renewable natural resources such as forests in resource efficiency. i would see that the use of forests, the construction of wood and the promotion of wood products is one of the big things when it comes to recycling.
mr president, as the resolution we are considering states, the challenges facing our planet in terms of natural resources are obvious. long-term action and planning are therefore important and the commission has rightly made resource efficiency a key element of the europe 2020 strategy. the global growth of the population, the almost doubling of the number of middle-class consumers and the growing need for food production are creating a situation which must be solved in a sustainable way and as soon as possible. europe is no exception, and the resolution to be voted on tomorrow is relevant to us. making the most efficient use of natural resources will increase the eu's competitiveness, help to preserve the environment and biodiversity, and is an important part of the transition to a low-carbon industry. however, we must be wise in defining actions to ensure that we use our natural resources as sustainably as possible and yet efficiently. for this reason, i do not support the need for new legislative initiatives as set out in the report. on the contrary, the existing laws and regulations should now be effectively implemented. the danger is that - as has already happened with our climate policy - we will create a legislative jungle in which overlaps make the goal itself not only impossible but also expensive. the resolution also goes too far in proposing practical measures based on the one size fits all principle. for example, in waste matters, local conditions should be taken into account. in some situations, burning may be necessary and even beneficial for energy production. similarly, proposals to tighten the environmental tax or proposals for new taxes are not universal, especially not in resource-rich countries. i would like to thank in particular my colleague florenz for his work as a shadow rapporteur in our group and for the wise line he has taken.
mr president, if our financial system is about to collapse we can survive it, with a lot of pain, but if our resource system collapses there is no way out of it: it is game over. this is the point we are getting close to with resource scarcity. to avoid this, i think this commission proposal for a resource-efficient europe is a good start, but we definitely need to move forward. we need broad definitions of resources so that all ecosystem services are included. we need better integration of resource efficiency into our growth strategies. we need indicators in our budgets both at eu and national levels. we also need to include, as proposed, a compulsory element as a growth strategy in the european semester and in macro-economic indicators. we need to abolish environmentally harmful subsidies and, yes, we need an effective eco-design directive that has rules on the resource-use footprint, recyclability and a resource-efficiency index. it is crucial to have all products included. i would like to encourage the commission to act boldly on this and to have this growth discussion included also.
for the alde group mr president, mr commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for this excellent report and for the excellent work you have done. indeed, millions of young people in europe have now left school and are looking for work, confident in their future. i am sure that many young people are very confident when they are in school, but many times that confidence begins to wane as they look for work. on the one hand, the traditional belief that one who works is enough has always been true, but today that situation has indeed changed. too often, stories are told of young people who have graduated from school and sent dozens of job applications to different places, and then some places respond that there is too much training for the job, for example, while others - in jobs that are equivalent to training - may say that there is not enough work experience, even if the training is appropriate for the job. perhaps the greatest paradox is precisely what is required of young people today. on the other hand, it is demanded that in the short term we should have education, we should have work experience and perhaps even a family built in between. these demands are unnecessarily harsh in today's society. on the other hand, we must remember that the challenges of the labour market have also changed. no longer do the same job for a whole career, people may have an average of ten jobs during their career, which poses challenges to education and lifelong learning. it is very important that we now find concrete measures and keys to solving this problem of youth unemployment. the commissioner pointed out that these funds are structural funds and that there are unused funds, which currently amount to eur 82 billion. it would be very important indeed that these could be used more and more, both for the erdf and the esf, for major concrete measures to reduce youth unemployment. on the other hand, the member states also have a major role to play. we also need other concrete measures, and i am glad that the commissioner has also brought them up. the youth guarantee, among other things, is one of the concrete things i really hope to see promoted. the problem of youth unemployment has been discussed at european level a great deal and on many occasions, but it is no longer enough to simply identify and debate the problem. we must find the means to really develop the structures of society so that young people can enter the workforce more quickly. in addition to social action, this will of course require the activity and the right will of each one of us.
mr president, commissioner, we are facing a very serious problem when we talk about youth unemployment in the european union. we have to admit that we have handled this with the left hand very poorly. we've had a big picture missing, and i suspect it still is. we are talking beautifully here, but somehow the realities have become disconnected and our contact and contact with everyday life, with the real level of youth unemployment, is too long, the gap is too wide. we have a lot of research on this. we have a lot of reports on this subject and they are being produced all the time, but i feel that at the moment there are more writers of reports than readers of them. not to mention having the enforcers we need. i can say that the most terrible experience a person can have is the experience of being an outsider, and at the moment a significant proportion of young europeans - 5.5 million - feel they are an outsider in this system, in the european union. we are speaking in this chamber, but i doubt that when we go outside we will say: 'so be it, but europe needs strong labour-based immigration and we need to raise pensions'. we are looking for a solution to the problem of the moment, and yet again we forget that young people are in danger of being excluded. it is the most expensive bill of all, and our future rests on the shoulders of the young and the children. so now we should turn our thinking to it. it is true that it is an investment and it will pay off, but we must do it, invest in young people and their education, so that we can have real prospects for the future and hope for europe. we shall soon be voting on the budget in this chamber. it is one concrete point where we can show whether we are investing more in r & d, innovation and training, or whether we are withdrawing funding from them and looking to continue to allow these areas of growth which would benefit our young people and employment to exist. in this respect, i hope that the debate we are having here today will not be just a debate and a warm conversation, but that a real change of direction could take place at the level of the european union, that we would really start to care about our young people and that our actions there would also start to take concrete steps at grassroots level, so that no life, no young person would be excluded and left out, but that they could also experience what it means to live a good and secure life in the european union and its member states.
mr president, we do indeed need economic growth to help young people, but lately i have been struck by how often the word growth is used in political parlance as synonymous with regeneration. it can't be the solution, it can't be real growth. the growth of public finances is a living at the expense of these young people, a living at the expense of these young people, a borrowing from them and their future, and that is why we need real growth. we must also pay attention to the fact that the training of young people is once again a real gateway to working life, that links between the education system and the labour market are improved, that more attention is paid to non-formal education and that young people in a particularly vulnerable situation, such as young mothers, members of minorities, immigrants and the disabled, are given special help. i am therefore very pleased that the president of the commission has taken a strong stand on youth unemployment and it is good that barroso's letter to the eight member states most affected has produced results.
mr president, it is incomprehensible that europe has not succeeded in implementing one of the oldest principles of eu law, which the court of justice of the eu has already granted direct legal effect. for too long, actions have been reduced to the level of beautiful words. i welcome this report, because it contains concrete proposals to reduce the gender pay gap. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the possibility of a review of the existing legislation in the field of equal opportunities. to achieve equal pay, the eu must play a strong role in improving legislation and coordinating policies. it is important that the european parliament continues to play an active role in the realisation of equality between men and women. the awareness-raising campaigns and rights information should be continued. i would like to remind you that individual members of this house can also play a significant role in this work.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in ukraine. i have followed the tymoshenko case with great concern and i am pleased that both parliament and the high representative, mrs ashton, have taken a stand on the matter. it is good that the ukrainian authorities and the european parliament have decided that medical experts will be sent to ukraine to treat tymoshenko's health. i am also pleased that a high-level observer will be going to ukraine to monitor the judicial process. the ukrainian government should now realise that its selective approach to justice is unacceptable. the treatment of mr tymoshenko is totally contrary to the atmosphere of the association negotiations currently under way. there's a big difference between political responsibility and criminal responsibility. the ukrainian authorities have also provided information on the activities of the ukrainian authorities in the field of human rights. ukraine has demonstrated its capacity for political, institutional, economic and social reform. the country must now also demonstrate its ability to uphold the rule of law and reform its criminal justice system. the country must also root out corruption and abuse of power. the association agreement under negotiation would thus serve as an excellent road map for modernisation, national reform and reconciliation. the european football championship is a great opportunity for ukraine to demonstrate its sincerity in the negotiations.
mr president, first of all i would like to say that i fully support the joint resolution signed by my group and other groups. if venezuela withdraws from the inter-american commission on human rights and the inter-american court of human rights, it will miss an important opportunity for constructive human rights dialogue, as well as for the improvement of human rights together with other latin american states and partners. i am afraid that venezuela’s withdrawal from the inter-american system could lead to its isolation and would not be good for the venezuelan people – that is the most important point. i really hope that our doubts are ‘early-warning’ doubts.
mr president, i am very concerned about the repeated threats by venezuela to withdraw from the inter-american commission on human rights and the international court of human rights. chávez has already done a lot of good for the rights of indigenous peoples. he should now take responsibility for the development of his country also in terms of other human rights. the situation is particularly serious, since human rights in venezuela are at least weak in certain respects. the problem has been restrictions on freedom of expression, attacks on journalists and dissidents, harassment of human rights defenders, poor prison conditions and the lack of an independent judiciary. now the venezuelan president has given a clear message that he has no intention of committing his country to human rights obligations. he has also called on other countries to break away from the american human rights system and establish separate regional bodies. this is a cause for concern, since this human rights system has specifically contributed to the development of democracy and the rule of law in many countries.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, the eurovisions have indeed brought media attention to azerbaijan for a moment, and the azerbaijani people have also taken the opportunity to demonstrate in the streets against the poor state of society and freedom of expression. indeed, numerous people have been prosecuted and imprisoned in azerbaijan for exercising their freedom of speech to criticize the government of the country. the shadow of totalitarianism still hangs over azerbaijan, and the development of a democratic market economy society respecting human rights is still far from being achieved. i ask you, can a state like azerbaijan ever act as a guardian of world peace and security, as a rotating member of the un security council, while it itself blatantly violates the human rights of its own citizens? the azerbaijani authorities should repeal the criminal law provisions on defamation and libel and undertake a comprehensive reform to ensure the exercise of freedom of expression in azerbaijan. the european union's foreign affairs directorate should demand that all cases of restrictions on freedom of expression in azerbaijan be investigated and that practical steps be taken to improve the human rights situation throughout the country and to release political prisoners.
mr president, azerbaijan is now in the spotlight of the press, as it is hosting the spring eurovision contest. however, the new assessment has been mostly negative, as the country's human rights situation has room for improvement. the main problems have been the restriction of media and political activities and the hindering of the work of ngos. journalists, representatives of ngos and active social media users have been harassed, blackmailed and imprisoned. the azerbaijani government has made many promises to improve the situation. the government has published a national human rights action plan and has reformed its legislation in many ways. azerbaijan has recently established a committee to investigate human rights violations. however, the government must ensure that the committee is completely impartial and that it complies with international standards. azerbaijan is also one of the eu's neighbourhood partnership countries. the country must urgently implement the human rights action plan of the neighbourhood policy and demonstrate its sincerity in the ongoing association negotiations. i'm here to tell you that i'm voting for the resolution.
i am very pleased, mr president, that the european parliament is now expressing its common concern about the human rights situation in azerbaijan, because the eurovisions are putting azerbaijan on the world map and the multi-million dollar public relations campaign is aimed at presenting a modern and advanced image of the country. but behind this polished facade lies another reality. in the 20 years of independence and relative stability of the country, there has been little change in the fundamental rights of citizens. instead, president aliyev's authoritarian regime has been consolidated and largely ignored by the international community. although criticism of azerbaijan has now increased somewhat, few critical voices are allowed inside the country. censorship has increased, and criticism of the president and senior government officials is often punished, whether it's opposition politics, journalism, art, civic activism, or education, or even social media.
mr president, i would like to thank mr essayah and the other members of the epp for the joint resolution we have adopted on this. it is very important that the european parliament once again calls on the azerbaijani authorities to release political prisoners and all those detained for political reasons. i would also like to stress that the european parliament will be following very closely developments in azerbaijan, especially after the eurovision song contest. the eurovision song contest is important and i would urge all singers and artists and those who participate in these important competitions to sing for the release of all political prisoners. it is absolutely unacceptable that people should live in fear, that the media, journalists, opposition representatives and human rights defenders should live in fear.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, china regularly returns north korean refugees to their homeland, where they face the threat of torture, forced labour and even execution. it is estimated that more than 20,000 north koreans have fled the country since 1950, the majority of them to china. for example, amnesty international has been monitoring the plight of north korean refugees in china for more than a decade and has reported on several occasions on the treatment of refugees by the chinese authorities. china does not protect the human rights and refugee rights of north koreans in the country. china threatens refugees and those assisting them and has prevented refugees from accessing the office of the un high commissioner for refugees. despite being a permanent member of the un security council and a party to the un refugee convention, china is failing to live up to its commitments and obligations to the international community.
mr president, the human rights situation in north korea is a chilling reminder of the totalitarian yoke from which europe was freed only after the fall of the iron curtain. just as the polarization of the cold war was believed to be eternal, so too the north koreans live a life without prospects. for generations they have been born and raised in a society that offers no hope for a better tomorrow. it is therefore extremely worrying that the chinese authorities are forcibly returning north korean refugees, who are likely to face prison sentences or even the death penalty in their home country. in china, too, a number of people who have helped these north korean refugees have been arrested and tried. the european external action service should therefore work together with the member states to develop a comprehensive approach to the situation in north korea. we must not allow the politics of power to override the suffering of human beings.
mr president, the situation of north korean refugees is extremely serious from a humanitarian point of view. there is famine, leaving many to seek refuge elsewhere. the north korean government must respond quickly to the food shortage, especially now that much of the foreign food aid has been cut off following the controversial missile launch. refugees from north korea must also be treated as asylum seekers in other countries. they must be offered safe passage and cannot be expelled under the international refugee convention. another serious problem is that being caught at the border means, in most cases, being sent to a prison camp or even being sentenced to death, unless the defectors are already shot at the border. moreover, relatives who remain in the country are almost invariably subjected to harsh interrogations or even to prison camps. we are grateful to china for taking the internal decision to end the deportations, but we also ask china to terminate its separate agreement with north korea on the return of refugees. i hope that this will be brought up in the eu-china human rights dialogue.
in writing. the report on energy policy cooperation with border neighbours is important because it helps to align future energy policy priorities also within our borders. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the balance in the report, covering both the strengthening of the eu energy market and the need to extend links with the eu energy network and the neighbourhood network, the creation of a wider regulatory area, but also concrete actions such as how to develop our cooperation by exploiting different technologies and forms of energy. in particular, energy sustainability and strengthened partnerships with different supplier countries are issues that need to be focused on. the report rightly states that the proliferation of non-conventional energy technologies will bring new sources of energy that are previously unknown to us. we must be able to take full advantage of this situation to diversify our supply. however, it is important that we keep in mind the need for energy self-sufficiency in all our energy solutions, which is why the emphasis in eu energy policy must be on producing and promoting domestic forms of energy. at the same time, it is clear that oil sands and shale gas, for example, are the energy forms of the future that we need until low-emission forms of energy are commercially available and efficient. these new forms of production are dividing opinion among citizens and policy-makers alike, and it is therefore also necessary to ensure that these forms of energy are as environmentally friendly as possible. in this context, regular energy dialogue with our partners is important in order to develop and better monitor the safe, secure and efficient production, transmission, transport, storage and processing of energy. cooperation on fusion research and nuclear safety must also be increased if we are to reduce risks globally in this still indispensable form of energy.
in writing. my colleagues from the various political groups have already reacted strongly to the council's decision to exclude the european parliament from decision-making on the schengen rules. this is another sad example of the attempt to undermine the powers of parliament. the cult committee is currently examining the citizens' europe programme, which is the subject of a similar dispute on the legal basis. the commission and the council consider that parliament has no say in the content of the programme, even though it is an initiative which is very closely linked to the citizens. it is strange that an institution representing 500 million europeans, elected by direct democratic elections, should not be able to decide on the content of decisions affecting europeans. the same situation is now at hand with regard to schengen. free movement is one of the eu's greatest achievements and one of the most tangible rights of eu citizens. i wonder if the council wants to dismantle the role that parliament was being given by the same member states in lisbon. the danger is that individual rights will be weakened, democratic principles will be weakened and cooperation between parliament and the council will be weakened in the future. the council has adopted an anti-european line.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i am in favour of economic discipline, but i do not think that this is the right way to achieve it. we already have a growth and stability pact, we have had it for a long time. we now have a six-pack too, but we are creating more and more new regulations in the shadow of the current crisis, even though the new regulations do not have time to solve the current crisis. it is said that we must learn from this crisis, but the member states are also capable of learning from it themselves. finland, for example, experienced a great recession in the 1990s, learned a lot from it and is therefore not in such a bad position now as it was then. they say you have to have supervision from above, but punishment from above doesn't help. what good is a penalty to a member state if it is already on the verge of collapse? this isn't about saving the economy. we have enough regulation. this is a federation one step at a time, in this case two steps at a time. we've already heard visions of the next steps in the talks here. for my part, i cannot vote for any further steps towards federation until we have asked the citizens whether they want federation, and asked that question in a referendum, and received a clear answer.
mr president, today's news from finland, for example, is entitled: 'the euro crisis is dragging finland into recession'. the international news is talking about how the recession in the eurozone is slowing global growth. i think these headlines should be part of the conversation that we're really in the same boat. there are no good countries, bad countries, or mismanaged countries, but at the moment we are in the same boat. i think that both the presidency and the commission deserve our respect because a great deal has been achieved. if you list all the things that have happened - regulation, the rescue mechanism, the src and so on - it's a pretty big achievement all together. but one is missing and with it all. what is missing is a vision of the direction of europe, and that is why voters are angry, markets are nervous and our global partners don't really know where europe wants to go. the next summit is therefore very important, as is the commission's new road map, in order to raise awareness of what europe really wants. the european responsible parties should also create this vision.
i too would like to say a few words about this excellent report by mr marco scurria. we celebrated last year the european year of voluntary service, and it is important that it be continued. i can say that as a result of that year's work we know that volunteering is a very important thing. volunteering is important at european level because it involves more than 100 million europeans and, as has been stated here on many occasions, it also has a positive impact on the european economy. it's about 5% of gdp. it is also good that a knowledge passport is now being built. i think particularly of young people, and why not also of older people, in the sense that different skills are recorded and can be used, for example, in the event of disasters and natural disasters. we know where to find such a force with the skills and the skill. volunteering needs recognition and it is very important to show it.
in writing. the european union is committed to the development of a sustainable and inclusive society. latin america has experienced many upheavals in the last few decades. the fact that some latin american countries have become the economic powers of the world has not been to the benefit of all. while absolute poverty has declined, inequality within countries has only increased. moreover, the success of economic engines has turned the spotlight away from countries that have failed to get on the path to economic growth. it is therefore time for the eu to reassess its allocation needs for development aid. the eu's development policy must therefore look at the individual situation of each country and broader indicators than just average income levels to measure poverty, especially in middle-income countries. in this process, the sustainable development goals, which may be decided at the rio+20 summit, would be at the centre. technology and innovation cooperation with middle-income countries is an interesting new area with a high potential for further development . the eu is the largest donor of development aid in latin america, but as times change, this development aid needs to be re-applied and re-targeted.
in writing. − volunteering is often involved in helping the most vulnerable in society. removing obstacles in its way is vital. i therefore voted in favour of this report. if we want citizens to feel that europe is theirs, it is essential to facilitate crossborder volunteering in particular. volunteering has the potential to contribute to the prevention of social exclusion. it is therefore significant that the activities are still difficult to implement and finance at european level. the measures proposed in the report will help us to begin to strengthen the impact of voluntary activities.
mr president, i was a member of the committee on foreign affairs when there was a special subcommittee on human rights. it sometimes happened that when we raised a problem in the foreign affairs committee itself, say the problem of economic cooperation with china, someone in the committee always remembered to say that we have a special subcommittee for what we are dealing with here. and this was certainly not the intention, that human rights should become a ghetto area, set aside and not be able to be included in the actual political agenda. on the contrary, the aim was to give human rights issues the attention they deserve and to really get out there. i was very pleased to hear you, mr ashton, express your desire to cooperate and your desire to cooperate. without this attitude, we should not consider the creation of a special representative for human rights.
for the alde group mr president, there are currently no global rules on arms trade. i hope that after the july meeting in new york, we will be able to achieve such things. it is important to reach a comprehensive agreement involving not only the member states of the european union but also china, india, the united states and russia. the eu countries currently have common rules for arms trade with third countries, but this is not enough. i would like to raise a few key questions. first of all, coverage is important, but alongside that, i want to emphasize surveillance. we must have effective, efficient and binding controls, including penalties. without transparency and effective control, the treaty risks being a blank slate. this must be taken seriously so that the controls work, and the un is the most reliable and best institution. secondly, i would like to draw attention to respect for human rights and international law. this may seem strange, because war does not really recognize human rights, but i would still like to see the contracting parties to this treaty commit themselves not to supply arms to countries and regions where there is a risk that they will be used for genocide or other really horrible acts of this kind. of course, war itself is terrible. i would then like to warmly thank the high representative, mrs ashton, for the good cooperation and the effective way in which you have taken this matter forward, but the work is only just beginning. strength to your efforts!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the ongoing crisis in syria shows why we need a global arms trade treaty. china, and especially russia, are exporting massive amounts of weapons to the assad regime, thus contributing to the deaths of thousands of innocent men, women and children. a global arms trade treaty would put russia, china and other arms-exporting countries in a much more difficult legal and moral position. we all know that the eu is a proponent of a global att (arms trade treaty). now is the time for member states and the eu delegation to push hard for this in new york. i consider the report we are going to vote on tomorrow helpful in reaching this goal. to make it even stronger, we have tabled several amendments. the first calls for dual use goods to be included in the treaty. this is important as the distinction between military and civil items can no longer be made. they both use the same high-tech components. i know the netherlands government will take this up, and i welcome this very much. secondly, at committee level, colleagues in the epp group voted against my amendment which made reference to the need to have a strong anti-corruption mechanism in the att. this does not correspond to our common eu position, and i think this reference should be included. i hope that colleagues in the epp group will support this in the voting tomorrow. the final aspect is the question of wider public access to, and information on, the arms trade. this also contradicts the existing practice in the eu, where ngos and think tanks cooperate freely with eu working groups. i urge my colleagues to vote for the amendments to keep the att implementation open to the wider public in the spirit of cooperation we enjoy at home.
in writing. in preparing the un att resolution, i was actively involved with various ngos (including saferglobe, amnesty international and the red cross) as well as research institutes (including sipri, the finnish institute for foreign policy), industry representatives (saab) and national and eu foreign policy officials. i would like to thank the above-mentioned bodies and the shadow rapporteurs of the other political groups for their good and fruitful cooperation.
mr president, commissioner, there is a well-quoted saying that the problem of the world is not the abundance of evil but the silence of good. while the international community has not been entirely silent, frustration and powerlessness are perhaps the words that best describe the community's feelings about the situation in syria. it is sad that we cannot help but read the reports of un military observers on the ever-increasing numbers of civilian casualties, bloodshed and human rights violations. observers report that syrian government forces are carrying out planned attacks on civilian targets, i.e. with the intention of killing civilians. for the first time, the un has added syrian government forces to a list of countries that recruit, kill and exploit children in armed conflict. it is quite clear that the eu must use all its influence in relation to russia and china, but also that several arab countries are playing a decisive role, particularly jordan. the situation in syria is causing growing uncertainty throughout the region, for example in lebanon, where the army has so far succeeded in stopping violence against religious groups. alawites and sunnis have been fighting each other, and there are those who support assad and those who oppose him. it is estimated that 78,000 people have already fled to neighboring countries. i would have asked the commissioner how the international community could support the refugees who have fled to neighbouring countries and the coordination of humanitarian aid in the region in this situation.
the president, the un special representative for children, has said that he has rarely seen such cruelty against children as we have heard about here today. however, the syrian government is not the only culprit, as the opposition forces have also recruited children to at least supporting roles. i support the sanctions imposed by the council on the syrian authorities and companies, but it is really time for the international community to start thinking about what is working and what is not. the syrian civilians have now suffered too much, and with children and young people becoming political pawns, it is time for the international community to wake up to the seriousness of the situation, even if it is in a limited capacity. kofi annan cannot negotiate without political support. i would also like to see the quartet negotiations as they are now resumed. i would also like to see a much greater visibility for the new eu special representative for the middle east. we must not forget the importance of the middle east peace process, even though the syrian crisis is currently acute.
mr president, last autumn's presidential and parliamentary elections in the democratic republic of congo showed the importance of election observation in third countries. unfortunately, however, the monitoring was unable to prevent the worrying elections. eu observers found problems at up to 79% of polling stations they visited. in addition, violent clashes occurred throughout the country. the situation in eastern congo remains particularly worrying. the congo is currently experiencing a very serious post-electoral crisis, with violence and hatred being fomented by both the ruling and opposition leaders. the democratically elected opposition is very small, while some of the opposition is isolating itself with very radical strategies. there is no legitimate government in the congo, and the country's politics have been derailed by the uncertainties of the elections. the democratic republic of congo is the least developed country in the un statistics, and the political uncertainty is not helping matters. the eu must now complete the work it started in the congo many years ago as the protector of the elections.
mr president, we meps voted in favour of a new eu strategy for afghanistan back in 2010 when we realised that only around 20% of eu aid was reaching the people who needed it. we asked for international aid, for example, to reform, to eradicate the poppy seeds, and to improve the training of the afghan police. the eu's external relations strategy for afghanistan expires in 2013 and we have not been able to help afghanistan as we would have wished as part of the international community. it seems that the country is still in a desperate state, which has only worsened following the spring taliban offensive. the foreign affairs council in may recalled that elections were due to take place in afghanistan in 2014 and 2015. however, the country is not ready for elections and the eu must ensure that karzai's government commits to reforms of its electoral arrangements before may 2013. the eu would be a good partner in the implementation of electoral reforms and in strengthening independent institutions.
mr president, i want to congratulate the danish presidency for good progress with the negotiations. there are many positive elements in the presidency’s negotiating box. let me note the fact that it has included iter and galileo and so forth in the mff ceilings. this is a good idea and i am also happy about the proposals concerning rals. personally i am also happy that the presidency is critically scrutinising the european globalisation adjustment fund. my colleagues here might not all agree with me on this, but personally i think it is a good choice. allow me also to underline what my colleague göran färm said, namely that the danish presidency should not proceed with some of the programmes which are under codecision without properly involving parliament. this is something that worries a lot of us, and it is something that could cause serious problems in the negotiations. finally, concerning own resources, speaking for the liberal group – and i am its coordinator in the committee on budgets – we have some key things we need to be included in order to vote in favour of this, and own resources is one of them. i hope this will be noted.
the question of the blue card. mr president, mr böge, you said that europe should stop all projects that require more money and more bureaucracy. i agree with some of that, but what about those initiatives that do not require more money or bureaucracy? for example, the european socialist party has proposed that 10 billion of the unused funds of the eu should be allocated to combating youth unemployment, and that this should create almost two million jobs for young people, so out of unused funds? what do you think of this initiative?
in writing. the financial framework for the eu's annual budgets for 2014-2020 is one of the biggest political battles between the council and parliament this year. it is good that parliament should place particular emphasis on greater flexibility, clarity and transparency in the future budget and take a stand on the so-called own resources: reform of the system so that funds are collected directly in the eu's own budget, while at the same time it is possible to reduce the contributions paid by the member states accordingly. the reformed budget is needed as part of a more coherent monetary policy. the idea of a more unified monetary policy is not as new as some headlines might suggest: with the idea of european monetary and economic union in its infancy, a working group headed by british economist donald mcdougall set out to consider the framework required for a single currency. the so-called mcdougall report states that, in general, the regions using the single currency are backed by the budget of the central or federal government, which is largely financed by the various taxes collected by that central government. the report states that, depending on the level of integration, the common budget should account for between 2.5% and 7% of the total gross domestic product of the union. the current budget of the union amounts to a fairly small percentage; for example, the federal budget of the united states is a fairly large 20%. although the demands for an increase in the common budget may understandably sound almost impossible to the ears of member states struggling with economic difficulties, i would urge national governments to adopt an open and creative approach to the common eu budget. the implementation of the single policies requires adequate resources. commitment to common goals means being prepared to commit the necessary resources to them.
mr president, without a strong and decisive unification of the economic policy of the european union, the whole task of european peace and prosperity will fail fatally. we have seen over the last two years that individual action is not enough. we need a structural solution. the report by mr gauzès on the surveillance of the economy and public finances of the euro area countries in difficulty is part of this larger and necessary structural solution. we are living through a historically difficult phase on europe's road to a better tomorrow. the road ahead now requires every element that will lead us towards greater solidarity. the member states alone cannot face the problems of the global economy, and we must therefore implement all the solutions that will promote economic integration. for these reasons, which are crucial for the future of europe as a whole, i voted in favour of this report and, consequently, of deeper economic integration.
(the speaker was interrupted because the microphone was off.) ... has become a crisis for the euro and for european integration as a whole, which is hurting not only the reputation of ordinary citizens but also that of europe as a whole. closer monitoring and coordination of economic policies are necessary measures to avoid similar crises in the future. the budgetary tightening is a welcome follow-up to the six-pack approved last christmas. to overcome the crisis, we must take measures to promote growth and employment. it is therefore important that recommendations on member states' budgets do not harm growth-generating investment. nor should growth requirements dilute the already agreed budgetary targets. there is always a social dimension to a crisis which must be taken into account. it's important to protect education and health care. the priority agenda at the moment should be to promote employment. that is precisely why i supported the report.
mr president, the two-pack, like the six-pack before, is not going to work the way we want it to. two-pack is not gonna save the crisis we're in. the two-pack, on the other hand, promotes undemocratic control, supervision by the member states, solidarity in debt and, therefore, the erosion of morale and the transfer of income within the union. in short, two-pack promotes federal development. i cannot support the development of the eu in a direction which i know we do not have the mandate of the european citizens.
mr president, i voted in favour of the joint resolution. the recent escalation of tensions between sudan and south sudan has brought the two countries to the brink of war. the agreement on the sharing of economic activities and raw materials in the border areas of the countries was badly neglected in the context of the independence of south sudan. the countries must be brought together to negotiate. the first priority is to find a political solution to the crisis. the un must present a workable and comprehensive solution in the form of a road map published in may. the ball is now in the court of these two countries, but both the un and the eu need to be present and visible in the region. the european union should therefore closely support regional and international actors in order to ensure that the un roadmap in particular is implemented without delay. the eu should emphasise the need to put an end to violence in both countries.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution. the european union is the second largest trading partner of colombia and peru. the trade agreement will bring enormous benefits to both countries in the fields of industry and fisheries, as the peruvian president stated today. the european union is a community of values based on respect for human rights and democratic principles. this obligation also imposes obligations on the union's trade policy. it is essential that the european union should pursue a foreign and trade policy based on its own values. business is not just business, but the situation of the trading partners must be taken into account as a whole. both colombia and peru must continue to work towards the respect and implementation of human rights obligations and environmental protection. these are not obligations imposed by the european union, but are the international obligations of both countries. the colombian-peru trade agreement is becoming an important example of the kind of trade partnerships and the kind of terms europe is prepared to agree to.
mr president, the eu's foreign policy has been in a whirlwind for the last few years. the creation of a new european external action service is one of the reasons. the european parliament has repeatedly called for the appointment of a european union special representative for human rights. but i fear that the most qualified candidate will not be chosen again. europe deserves a human rights ombudsman who is elected on his own merits and not as a result of political connections and political hand-wringing. the finnish government has a woman qualified for the job, astrid thors, emerita. it's a very responsible mission. the eusr is expected to contribute to the visibility and consistency of the union's human rights policy. the eu's human rights profile needs a global front-row, a representative face. that is why i voted in favour of this important report.
in writing. − to prevent a financial and economic crisis like the present one in the future, more coordinated policies are needed in the euro area. it is particularly important to have sufficient information on the preparation of budgets in good time in order to prevent imbalances in the public finances of the member states. the basic idea that budgetary control requires an independent body outside the member states (the european commission) must be understood and accepted in the light of the events of recent years. the ferreira report, which is part of the so-called two-pack, aims to achieve the above objective. however, in the committee's preparation of the ferreira report, elements were introduced that were alien to the basic idea, such as the requirement for a debt-repayment fund (recital 27) and, in particular, the requirement for a growth fund, in which up to 1% of the euro area's gross domestic product (eur 140 billion) is proposed to be invested annually for 10 years (recital 67). i voted against amendments nos 27 and 67, but i voted in favour of the report as a whole because of its important fundamental objective, namely to bring about stricter economic discipline in the euro area. i voted in favour of the whole report with confidence also because i do not believe that amendments nos 27 and 67 will be successful in the trialogue between parliament, the council and the commission.
madam president, women’s rights are human rights and they have to be respected in all fields of life, with legal protection and certainty. they are not subject to personal beliefs, or to whether one wants to respect them or not. they are universal. they belong to all women, every woman and every child. and they are not subject to the subsidiarity principle. it is not up to member states or some countries to decide how they treat half of their population. one of the most brutal crimes of hatred against women is genital mutilation. it touches the whole core of gender and sex, of being a woman. it touches also girls: underage girls and children. it mutilates, it denies their opinion, it denies their untouched bodies and it denies their sexual existence. women and girls have a right to independence. they have a right to their own opinions. they have a right to decide over their own bodies and over their own minds and over their choices of life, whatever their preferences and whatever they might be. the european union’s institutions have to act – the commission, parliament – and especially the member states, both internally in the eu and at multilateral level, in the un general assembly, to adopt a resolution at its 67th session with a view to ending female genital mutilation worldwide, because we have moved beyond this.
mr president, we received some good news last year. the un campaign against female and girl mutilation has helped over 6,000 communities to end the practice. the figures are still horrendous, for example in egypt, where 97 percent of girls were previously circumcised, and still stand at around 72-91 percent depending on the source, despite the fact that the authorities have tried to ban the practice since the late 1990s, although leaving the interpretation of operations for health reasons. especially in the southern parts of egypt, the problem is enormous. we must remember that the practice is practiced in christian, islamic, and animist communities throughout africa and western asia. preventing mutilation requires a comprehensive social change and the eu must continue to support those who are fighting against mutilation. it is important to establish a support group to support victims, but in particular to continue the campaign to prevent mutilation. mutilation is a crime against a woman and a girl, it's a gross assault.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal. - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, frédérique riesi, for her very good work. we in the itre committee, and i was the one who gave the opinion, could easily agree with this good view and good basis, and we think, and i think, that this is very important legislation because the former legislation was already obsolete in many respects. it is important that we are careful here because it is precisely when we talk about breast milk substitutes and foodstuffs prepared for medical purposes that it is clear that they must be very clearly labelled on the packaging. the presentation must also be clear, the texts must be understandable, and it is important that they do not contain any misleading claims, medical claims or otherwise, but that people really know what they are getting as consumers. i can say that when i have become a grandfather myself and have been able to get to know these breast milk substitutes in practice, it is clear that there is a need for clarity and so on and that such false idealized advertising phrases, which are what they are, must be dealt with, that is, advertising must be clear and the information must be good and reliable in all respects.
i voted in favour of this report, mr president, because it is very important to inform the public about major accidents when they occur. the citizens should also not be left in the dark about the causes and consequences of major accidents. if we allow the risk of accidents to be underestimated, we endanger the safety and health of people. the commission has therefore decided to tighten the rules. the information responsibility of operators will now be strengthened. public awareness is also increased through the four-yearly evaluation and monitoring. the report contributes to the safety of european citizens and is therefore very welcome.
mr president, i tried to vote in favour of this report, but my computer did not work. a substantial part of the report concerns issues relating to consumer access to information. another important point is the target group of the report, namely the growing children, who are very vulnerable consumers because of their age. childhood obesity is a growing and serious concern throughout europe. research has conclusively shown that advertising and the content of advertising aimed at children shape their consumption habits. it is good that the report calls for the truthfulness of food labelling and that only scientific and factual information should be given to consumers. i support these ideas because we all know that the main purpose of advertising by companies is to promote sales, not to inform consumers. in the face of stiff competition, many firms are prepared to promote their own results by any means necessary. most foods marketed to children are high in fat, sugar, and salt.
mr president, i voted in favour of this ries report. i have to thank mr ries for his excellent report and it is very important that now that we are talking about breast milk substitutes and infant feeding, all the information concerning them is truthful, correct and scientifically proven. and not that there's any sort of image advertising, this is very important to take care of. i would also like to say that, as far as the keliac food is concerned, the keliac products could have been included in their own report and separately, but in this context they are of course excluded, because it is true that the legislation must now be updated in this area too. all in all, this is a good reform. it is 35 years since the previous legislation and therefore it was high time that new, up-to-date legislation was introduced here. (applause) i would like to thank you.
i think this is a very important motion for a resolution, mr president, and i voted in favour of it because it concerns public consultations and their availability in all the eu languages. if the european union is to be a credible actor in the eyes of its citizens, it must also provide all the essential information in the languages of the citizens. only in this way can we win the confidence of the citizens, and i think this is one of the areas where we must work even more vigorously so that people can receive information in plain language, what is the role of the european union, what is the role of the various institutions, and also documents and all the hearings in their own language. this is the hard core, the foundation of what we need from the eu, and that is why parliament as a democratic body must vigorously defend the rights of citizens to have all public documents in their own language, just as all hearings must be held in their own language.
in writing. - i have in the past dealt with tibetan nuns and monks in particular, following their blinding self-immolations. but this is not the only problem in the region. china has driven many actions that threaten tibet's language, culture, religion, heritage and environment. the tibetan leadership asked the eu high representative last december to send eu diplomats to tibet to investigate the situation on the ground. china has blocked that. i think our foreign affairs department should be more courageous about this, because it's a human rights disaster for countless people. the tibetan leadership has even said that if the situation is not addressed soon, china is not immune to an arab spring-type situation. the eu should also raise the issue at the un human rights council. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
mr president, the eu's current sahel strategy does not sufficiently emphasise the link between development and security. i think we should consider, for example, a civilian mission to mali. it is particularly important that we build the capacity of the sahel countries and support the regional organisations operating in the sahel. when problems are regional in nature, strategies must be made at the regional level. i am particularly pleased that blaise compaoré has now been elected as ecowas peace mediator for the crisis in mali and i hope that the situation in the country will soon return to normal. of course the commission must continue its excellent work and focus in particular on the food crisis, natural disasters, chronic poverty and the refugee situation. it is good that the commission has increased the budget for humanitarian aid. the eu must pay particular attention to young people, who are the most likely victims of recruitment by terrorist and criminal networks. women must be given opportunities to participate, to be educated and to work. this is precisely the link between education and development and security.
mr president, impunity and corruption are growing problems in the philippines. the long history of corruption in the philippines has also kept foreign investors out of the country. the impunity has its roots in the 2009 maguindanao massacre. the murders of eyewitnesses to the bloodbath are a disgrace to the philippine judiciary. the violence and enforced disappearances are clearly motivated by political motives. the philippines shall act in accordance with its international obligations. witnesses at trial and their families shall be afforded appropriate protection. i would ask the european external action service to keep a close eye on the political situation in the philippines and in particular on the judicial proceedings in connection with the massacre.
mr president, the philippines is flourishing with impunity. the situation was brought to the attention of the international community once again when the body of esmail amil enog was found a few months after his disappearance. enoch's limbs were severed, and it is suspected that he was murdered with a chainsaw. enog was one of the key witnesses to the maguindanao massacre and the third murder victim. hundreds of political murders by the state or the military have been reported in recent years. however, only seven of these cases have been convicted in court. no convictions have been handed down since the current president took office. for a time, the international community was pleased with the improvement in the human rights situation in the philippines, but now it has been shown again that the philippines, as a signatory to the statute of the international criminal court, has not kept its commitments. for example, i was also very disappointed with the political leadership of the philippines for not being present when the un human rights council voted on the situation in syria. it is great that the eu has implemented programmes together with the philippine government. the leadership must now understand that the international community is not going to look the other way.
the author. - mr president, it is now two years since iranian primary school teacher farzad kamangar was murdered because he was kurdish. a few months ago, riaz sobhani, a member of the baha'i minority, was sentenced to four years in prison for providing financial support to the baha'i university of iran. maryam rostampour and marzieh amirizadeh, who converted to christianity, were arrested in 2009. they were accused of abandoning their religion, or apostasy, and of spreading false beliefs. although iranian law does not include the criminal term apostasy, judges are free to interpret islamic law with considerable latitude. this has even led to death sentences. the iranian authorities often say that minorities have full rights in the country. in fact, there are three recognized minorities in iran, jews, christians and zoroastrians, but there is no mention of arabs, kurds, muslim minorities, azeri, baluch, sufis and so on. three recognized minorities have five seats in the 190-member parliament and are allowed to perform their religious rituals. the government must understand that multiculturalism is a wealth and must be cultivated.
mr president, it may seem strange to the outside world that we have thanked each other so much, especially as the markets are still nervous and the public angry about this crisis. i think the summit last weekend was a disaster, to put it bluntly. it was shocking to watch the unprecedented information warfare between the different member states, each with its own starting point and each with its own objectives. the message that came out of the summit was very contradictory. the worst thing is that - as we have seen here, for example, with regard to patents - new policies were once again being drawn up overnight, often on very technical and detailed matters. researchers have found that if a person stays awake for 24 hours straight, he is one promille drunk, and then driving is a crime. when you make decisions after such a long period of surveillance, you get these problems. since you, prime minister, are a creative and imaginative person, could you tell us what experience you have that could be used to improve practices after this summit?
mr president, i would like to thank you. my dear friends! last week's meeting once again showed that eu leaders only take decisions when they have the knife to their throat. in many ways, last week's decisions are paving the way for a positive development, giving those countries with economic problems time to adapt. that's good. at the same time, the meeting left some open questions which have also been discussed here in the chamber today, and it is clear that there are those who choose to interpret the decisions of the meeting in a way which appears opportune to the home audience. this is understandable for political reasons, but it is also regrettable. for example, it has been indicated that it has been agreed that the rescue fund will then be allowed to operate on the so-called secondary bond market. that is as far as i understand the case, then it would certainly be clearly stated in the minutes of the meeting, and it is not. in view of the future, i think it is wise to stick to what has actually been agreed and not to make a lot of exaggerations and interpretations. this will only lead to the countries which already have their wallets open being even more alienated from the decisions, and this is not desirable in a situation where we are making joint sacrifices to get out of this difficult economic situation. mr president, at the same time i would like to thank my colleagues for their cooperation. this is my last speech in this house, because i am leaving parliament. thank you!
in writing. the decisions taken by the council last week have now finally taken significant steps towards more effective crisis management and, at the same time, towards long-term economic growth. there is a fatal link between acute crisis management and longer-term measures: neither will work without the other and both are needed. the decisions set the course in the right direction towards an eu-wide banking union. the link between government debt and bank debt, which has proved to be extremely toxic and has contributed to the escalation of the crisis, must now be severed. this can be achieved by the remedies decided on by the council last week, in particular the integrated financial framework and the establishment of a common, strong european banking authority. this development does not mean that the 'peak' is now open to banks as well as to the over-indebted states. on the contrary, it is precisely the fact that in future the taxpayers will no longer be charged for the errors or abuses of any bank, but will be charged to those who have caused the bill: the banks themselves. it is important that we now start to build the process in a logical order and as a functioning whole. this will include a strong banking authority with powers to, among other things, restructure distressed banks and a pan-european fund to guarantee deposit protection and minimise the cost to eu citizens of a possible bank failure. the commission should propose a legislative package covering the council's decisions as early as next autumn, as requested by parliament.
the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. - mr president, eu countries are saving and so must the eu. the commission is nevertheless proposing an increase of almost 7% in the union budget. in my country, finland, such an increase in the eu budget would mean a €70-100 million cut in the national budget or an increase in debt. coincidentally, it is the same amount that the national government decided to cut from the health care budget. but today i am speaking on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs. the eu's foreign affairs department is proposing an increase of 5.7%, mainly because the security situation in afghanistan and iraq has deteriorated to the point where security is costing. at the same time, however, eu foreign policy experts say that the situation there has stabilized. you have to speak in the same voice all the time, whether things are better or not. my message is that we must save. of course, the security of eu officials must be ensured, but the money must be found elsewhere. the eu cannot live by continually putting more money here and there. it is time to save if we teach the member states to save too.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur and colleagues, the european economy is notoriously in a bad state. the member states are being asked to make drastic cuts, which means painful sacrifices even in the most basic functions of society, such as defence, education and health care. at a time like this, we cannot pretend to be an institution detached from the reality of the citizens. the freezing of savings or at least of appropriations to keep up with inflation must also affect us. if we now demand excessive increases in our budget, we will not only lose money, but we will also damage our reputation and give the impression that we are indifferent. the report is a good one in that it seeks to examine the overlap between the activities of the union and those of the member states in order to avoid unnecessary costs. the eu does not need to do anything that the member states can do alone.
in writing. i, for my part, welcome the first cyprus presidency of the eu. the cyprus presidency is expected to be a difficult and challenging one. it is facing challenges, not least because of the recession and economic crisis that are sweeping europe. the ambition of cyprus's presidency to return the eu economy to growth and to make the union more effective for the benefit of its citizens is a clear sign of ambition. unfortunately, the cyprus presidency will be short-lived from the very beginning. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it has to be a piece of ice, but it has to represent the interests of its country. the eu countries must learn to balance the fiscal belt and the growth requirements during the cyprus period. the european union is at a historic juncture where it either finds cooperation and becomes closer or it disintegrates and fails. at the same time, we must not forget the citizens who must have the final say on the direction of europe. they must be informed openly and honestly. i am sincerely hopeful for the end of 2012 and wish cyprus good luck with its presidency of the eu.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report because the alignment of the common agricultural policy with the lisbon treaty is important to parliament. i hope that, as the administrative burden on the member states is reduced by the reforms in this report, more attention will be given to the actual issues. one of the critical issues facing agriculture is the ageing crisis facing the sector. only 6% of farmers in europe are under 35 years old, and one in three farmers is already over 65. the ageing of farmers is not only jeopardising european food production but also the profile of the sector as a profession for all ages. it is not just food production but also land use and employment policies. we should support young farmers and those who are just starting out, because without them there is no future for european agriculture. better action is needed to ensure that measures are taken in all member states to support young farmers. they must not be placed on an unequal footing by reason of their place of residence.
mr president, i voted against the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement. the end of the acta road in the strasbourg plenary is a symbolic moment, since the european parliament represents 500 million citizens and consumers and their interests. it is important to remember that the now-defunct acta agreement, however, addressed the existing problems identified. however, the solutions it proposed could be improved and specified. the deal had mixed up the debts and the credits. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of intellectual property rights. it is ultimately about european jobs and european competitiveness, which is being undermined by counterfeiting and copyright infringement. i think that parliament has sent a strong message today that all means must not be allowed.
mr president, this is a somewhat unusual explanation of vote, because i am explaining why i abstained completely. i didn't even vote no because i'm unhappy with the whole process that acta was handled. i had an opinion on this, we need protection against piracy anyway. we need an international anti-counterfeiting trade agreement to protect intellectual property rights. i think this house made a fool of itself by taking a stand on acta before its open questions had been dealt with in the court of justice of the european union. the decision should have been postponed so that we could have made a decision based on the facts. now our e-mail was filled with a lobbying campaign that spread misinformation. i'm just trying to correct a few things. acta does not regulate the use of the internet or freedom. acta does not lead to border checks on computers carried by air passengers and internet surveillance. acta does not lead to the introduction of a three-strikes penalty for online infringements. acta does not stop poor countries from buying cheap drugs. all safeguard clauses and exemptions under eu law or the trips agreement remain in full force and effect, and so on. i could go on and on and on, but we're running out of time.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because animal welfare must be taken into account in all our activities. we must not allow economic considerations to override humanity. animal welfare legislation should be simplified and harmonised. furthermore, it must be based on the information which has been examined. however, the most important aspect of the practical implementation of animal welfare is the effective implementation of legislation. even good legislation is meaningless if it remains a dead letter. in addition to effective enforcement of the legislation, member states should ensure that infringements are subject to appropriate sanctions. this is particularly important in the transport of animals, where the legislation in force is often not respected. the european union is a community of values and animal welfare is a value in itself. legislation should also cover pets and wildlife.
mr president, this week has seen a lively and in-depth discussion of the achievements of last week's eu summit. there is even some doubt in the press and among colleagues whether anything of note was actually achieved at the meeting. i would like to believe that we did, but europe must cooperate more closely. we are either going down together or we are going to lead the european continent towards a better future. a kind of dual union is already a fact. the countries which wish to develop and strengthen their cooperation must be given the opportunity to do so. it is regrettable that many member states see the summit as a competition for their own interests. national interests are thus pushing european cooperation above and beyond. this is an unfortunate and dangerous phenomenon. the european union is facing perhaps the most serious crisis in its history. now it's in an existential crisis.
mr president, i have just voted in favour of the report on access to basic banking services. despite a rapid decline in cash use, some 7% of the eu's adult population still do not have a bank account. of these 30 million consumers, an estimated 6-7 million are unbanked because banks have refused to give them one. the absence of a bank account makes it very difficult for citizens to manage their daily lives, such as making purchases, paying bills and entering into housing contracts. it is also astonishing that some banks are reluctant to open a bank account for a consumer even against a valid employment contract. in some cases, this is a serious problem, especially for workers with an immigrant background. we must get rid of this discrimination and make the banking sector also responsible for its social responsibilities. i therefore warmly support this report, which promotes the status of eu citizens and the functioning of the internal market.
mr president, commissioner, as has been said here on many occasions, it is very important that we in europe invest in a functioning infrastructure network. it is also of particular importance for our economic success. it is very significant that in future we will also be able to use more and more both private and public funding for these projects, and of course also the various financial instruments of the european union. the regional development funds may in future become a significant financial element in these networks, in addition to the european one, and they will certainly also give greater emphasis to these infrastructure projects in the coming period. it is important that we also look at europe in a broader way when we develop infrastructure. at present, it is largely concentrated in central europe. the needs of northern europe must also be taken into account.
in writing. the eu's main rio+20 priority was the global transition to a green economy that promotes sustainable management of natural resources, sustainable consumption and production. the eu was particularly disappointed that the host country, brazil, had pushed through the final document before the ministers had arrived and decided to remove all contention from the text. as a result of poor facilitation, the eu was unable to form coalitions and many of its priorities were not recorded or negotiated at all. many of you know how i feel about the un climate process. rio+20 was not a climate summit, but what they have in common is that the processes in their current form do not achieve anything meaningful. in rio, for example, decision-makers would have had the opportunity to use nine key actors - business, children and young people, farmers, indigenous peoples, etc. - as a resource in defining the final document. disappointed, the key-actors groups, ready to help the decision-makers, marched out of the meeting and resigned from the part of the preamble which declares that the final document was drawn up in consultation with the key-actors groups. the future they wanted was not achieved, and the main blame for this lies with the process and the lack of a marketing strategy for the eu's green economy. developing countries began to see the concept as a conspiracy theory that was holding back their economic growth. i would hope that we would implement the eu's priorities within the union and not bury the hopes that civil society has placed in us. future generations need jobs, sustainable energy, the ability to consume sustainably and a voice in decision-making. fortunately, the process of the so-called sustainable development goals was put into place, and water and sanitation as a human right, spearheaded by finland, was mentioned for the first time in a un document.
it is very important, mr president, that parliament should strongly support the establishment and financing of pan-european transport and energy networks. they are crucial for europe 2020 and for growth. the only regrettable thing is that the funding is still about one tenth of what is needed. i believe that, for example, the substantial funding for the european high-voltage grid, which would enable us to guarantee greater energy efficiency, security of energy supply and also greater use of renewable energies in electricity generation, is a key investment on which the entire european union, the european investment bank, the project bonds and also its financing should concentrate their resources in the future.
mr president, i should like to say briefly that i supported this proposal and i think it is very good. it is important to increase the financing of the transeuropean transport and energy networks and to seek new instruments for them. it will be interesting to see how these bonds will work. we need projects of this kind now, projects which really create the conditions for growth, and that is the growth we are looking for in europe at the moment. we need sustainable growth now, because the debt that has been incurred now cannot be repaired any other way. in this respect, this is a good project, one in which the european union can play a part in creating the conditions for sustainable growth. on the other hand, this is also in line with our own europe 2020 programme.
mr president, the situation in the middle east is extremely sensitive and it is therefore of course important that political positions on this issue are very balanced and contribute to the positive development of the region. i voted in favour of this joint resolution because i believe that there is a situation of very great human suffering and also of tragedies in which the european union and the european parliament must clearly take a stand in favour of a policy which puts an end to the unnecessary use of excessive force and which also guarantees human rights and the security of citizens in the middle east.
mr president, i had to vote against this resolution because unfortunately this resolution on east jerusalem and the west bank was very one-sided. as has already been pointed out in the speeches, the legitimacy of israel was called into question here. we must remember our value in the european union. we are for democracy, human rights and freedom of expression, and i hope we will also want to build a lasting peace in the middle east. in this respect, it was encouraging to see the epp suggest that hamas should recognise the state of israel and support the two-state solution and that hamas should stop its attacks against israel. they've been getting stronger lately. in this respect, i hope that the european parliament and the european union will give a very clear message that we stand by our own values. we support democracy and israel. we also state clearly that jerusalem is the undivided capital of israel. it is historically that, and it is today that. if the two-state solution is ever to be found, it will be found with respect for the facts of history.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, this is indeed a very important and serious matter and i am one of the signatories of the resolution. violence and discrimination against sexual minorities is a problem all over the world. in africa, however, the situation seems to be getting worse by the day. homosexuality is punishable by death in mauritania, sudan, and parts of somalia and nigeria. the new bill may also introduce the death penalty for homosexuality in uganda. i am particularly concerned about the practice that has become known in south africa of raping lesbians and trans women to correct their sexual orientation. an example of this is the case of the female footballer eudy simelane in 2009. all countries have an obligation to prevent violence and stigmatisation in society based on sexual orientation. all persons have the right to enjoy the protection of society, regardless of sexual orientation. we also need to protect lgbt rights activists. and the good news is, i'm glad to say, some african countries have already announced their opposition to the criminalization of homosexuality.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, africa is a land of strong women. women in africa run the homes, run the villages, and certainly partly because of this strength, discrimination against women is very strong. we all know that mutilation of the genitals is shocking, but women who are human rights activists and who have a different sexual orientation are subject to even greater discrimination. that's why this conversation here is so necessary. the stigmatization and abuse already described here, and the terrible term i heard, corrective rape - let it be an example - are reprehensible. african authorities must protect all women, including lesbians. the european union should give its full support to this work and also call on political and religious leaders to take action for human rights
the author. - mr president, mr andrzej poczobut, a polish-belarusian journalist and prominent activist for the polish minority in belarus, was once again imprisoned pending trumped-up charges and a political trial. in belarus, journalists are still jailed for expressing and writing their opinions on the country's president, alexander lukashenko, or the state of society in general. so the ink of a pencil can have surprising powers. the mere publication of an opinion can result in a sentence of several years in prison for insulting the president. however, i believe that what is happening in belarus is more indicative of the weakness of president lukashenko's ego than anything else. he does not even want democracy and a real civil society in the country, because he knows that it would mean the end of his reign of terror. andrzej poczobut has since been released. this is excellent news. the european union and parliament, and the rapid reaction, are to be thanked for this, as well as for the outspoken disapproval and criticism that the internet makes possible. poczobut had previously been named a prisoner of conscience by the human rights organization amnesty. in this context, it is worth recalling that at least 13 other prisoners of conscience are still awaiting release in belarus. the imprisonment of a person for his or her opinion is a flagrant violation of fundamental, universal human rights, as well as article 34 of the constitution of belarus. the european external action service and the eastern partnership foreign ministers' meeting in july should address the deterioration of the human rights situation in belarus and also the poczobut case.
mr president, i have met many times with political prisoners in belarus. there are journalists, as in the case of mr poczobut, and trade unionists. many members of my own sister party are also in prison at the moment. the concept of a political prisoner should not exist in europe. the deterioration of the human rights situation in the heart of europe calls for a more active and sustained action by the european union at all levels. it is particularly important now, as we prepare for this meeting of foreign ministers, to put this deterioration in the human rights situation on the agenda. it is necessary. we should also give more support to young people and students who want to come to europe to study and thus develop new activists.
mr president, belarus is regularly the subject of our urgent human rights discussions here. apart from the repression of its own citizens by the lukashenka regime, this time the insult also goes to the polish newspaper, edited by poczobut, who belongs to the polish minority. although he has been released, as we have said here on several occasions, the sentence has not been revoked. he was already punished in 2011 for the first time for the so-called libel against lukashenko. it is good to remember that there are other prisoners of conscience in belarus. i myself, for example, have adopted a young prisoner of conscience, mikalai dziadok, who has now been abused in prison, according to information i have received from his parents. i would appeal to the commissioner to do everything possible to secure the release of these prisoners of conscience.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, china's one-child policy has once again shown its cruelty. a woman who was seven months pregnant was forced to have an abortion because the expectant couple already had a child and could not afford to pay the fine for the extra child. china's one-child policy, which is a serious violation of human rights, especially women's rights, allows urban families to have one child and rural families to have two if the firstborn is a girl. this has also led to sex-selective abortions, where millions of babies have been aborted simply because they are girls. this has led to and will lead to a worsening problem of democracy in china, with a society that is missing, as mr schaake said here, already 40 million women. i would hope that this discussion would remain on a respectful level and that we would understand that the first human right of every human being is the right to be born into this world.
for the alde group mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank mr auconie for the excellent work he has done on this very technical but controversial subject. food safety is certainly something we must take care of right up to the very end. we do not want to go back to the situation we had in the 1990s with the bse crisis. the identification of bovine animals is an essential element in the traceability of the entire food chain. every animal on every farm has to be registered. however, identification and traceability must also be developed continuously. the current eu legislation does not take account of electronic detectors, but requires two ear tags. i myself have received a lot of feedback from producers on the current ear tag system, so there is certainly room for improvement in that respect. the technology has evolved and it is appropriate to recognise electronic detectors as an official means of identification of the animal. the commission has taken an important step in this direction and i welcome the commission's proposal and the report of the committee on the environment that the matter is now being dealt with cautiously. the use of electronic sensors is recognised by law, but their use is not made compulsory, and the premises are given time to adapt to these systems. i also think it is necessary to develop a voluntary system for beef and beef products. the voluntary labelling system has had many shortcomings and practices have varied widely between member states. some member states have not used the system at all and therefore it is necessary to clarify the system to ensure that consumers receive the correct information.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my warmest thanks to all the shadow rapporteurs and also to the commission for the very good cooperation during the negotiations. in cooperation with parliament's consultative committee, we have been able to improve the directive considerably both in terms of reducing the cost impact on human health and on industry. the directive will put into effect the new limits on the number of vessels that were agreed at the imo four years ago and will incorporate them into eu law. the pollution emissions from ships will be significantly reduced: ships will either have to switch to low-sulphur fuels or clean up their flue gas. the 0.1% sulphur limit for the baltic sea, the north sea and the english channel will enter into force at the beginning of 2015 and the 0.5% sulphur limit for the rest of the european seas in 2020. this may be the most significant health reform of this parliament's entire term. today, air pollution from ships is estimated to cause some 50,000 premature deaths a year. by reducing sulphur emissions from ships by almost a tenth, thousands of lives are saved every year. although the main thrust of the directive is to align eu legislation with the international environmental agreement, there has been a strong lobbying effort. i'd like to correct a misunderstanding that seems to be common. the new limits on sulphur in the baltic sea, the north sea and the english channel will come into force even if no eu directive is enacted. the decision taken at the imo four years ago is international law and it is valid even without a directive. the majority of eu member states and other imo member states have already ratified it. for example, after 2015, a finnish ship could no longer legally enter the ports of other european countries or almost any other country. i would like to ask the following questions to those of you who have called for the eu to take a stand against international environmental standards in shipping. do you want another country, say russia, to similarly waive the double hull requirement for oil tankers? it's gonna cost you, too. or do you want tens of thousands of people to die prematurely from pollution from ships? do you want european taxpayers to pay many times the price for heart and lung disease compared to what it costs to clean up the pollution of ships? the directive is needed to harmonise the implementation and monitoring of the imo decision in europe. it also balances the situation in europe and mitigates the effects on industry. the consulted text implies that article 86 of the state aid guidelines on environmental aid, environmental protection, applies to retrofits. in this case, state aid exceeding the normal rate may be granted for the installation of marine scrubbers until the end of 2014. the directive also balances the situation between northern and southern europe, as southern europe will also switch to low-sulphur marine fuel in 2020, even if the imo granted a five-year extension to the seas outside the emission limitation zones. i would ask those of you who are going to vote against the directive: do you want to take away from the industry of northern europe this cushion of a directive that has been agreed and do you also want to take away the improvement of the internal balance in europe that the directive contains?
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, you have presented a very good report. i am opposed to the adoption of this report and i also call on my colleagues to vote against it. the report contains major flaws which are particularly damaging to the economy of my own country, finland, and to the economy of northern europe in general. finland's economy is completely dependent on exports. ninety percent of finnish exports are transported by sea. the additional cost of the directive to the finnish export industry has been calculated at over half a billion euros per year. the number of job losses is expected to rise to 20,000. at the same time, the benefits of stricter sulphur emission controls, many times higher than in the rest of europe, are minimal for the natural conditions of the baltic sea region. this decision is unfair and contrary to the european spirit, because it favours other member states and punishes others. if a directive is now adopted which forces the baltic sea region to be subject to five times more stringent regulation than, for example, the mediterranean region, the competitive position in the single market area will be distorted. metsäyhtiö upm has already announced its intention to move part of its paper production out of finland if the directive is implemented. the ceo of upm has indicated that the annual paper production of 300 tonnes will start and will continue to be produced at the company's central european plants. this is a clear example of the gross injustice of the directive and the distortion of the internal market.
mr president, let us remember the basics: this is a very important health and environment directive which will indeed save lives. this is important. i would have been even more pleased if there had been the possibility of even deeper fine-tuning. it would have been fair, for example, to have set the same strict limits for all european countries, as the rapporteur, mr hassi, was initially aiming to do. the other fair thing would have been that my own country, finland, for example, which asked for a transitional period and for which it would have been very important in terms of industry, the economy and employment, would have had its request accepted. we have failed in these fine-tuning strategies and it is therefore understandable that there is real discontent in many countries, because this has a very strong impact on employment and regional development. but the eu's decisionmaking power is limited.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr satu hassia, for the work he has done. this is a very difficult question, and he has worked very hard on it. it is quite clear that we need to reduce sulphur emissions, but the way we are doing it now is very unfair, as has already been shown here. firstly, it would have been good if we had had a longer transitional period for the seca areas. now the seca regions will have to reduce their emissions by 0.1% by 2015, while the southern european countries can maintain a 3.5% share of emissions until 2020. this creates a very unfair position for competition. we would have needed a little longer transitional period for the development of the wastewater treatment plant, and i would have wished that this had been taken into account. however, it must be remembered that what we decide in the european parliament is very limited, because these decisions have already been taken in the imo and also at council level.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank all colleagues for this very constructive discussion. as several colleagues have mentioned, there will be a difference in environmental requirements for shipping in northern and southern europe, but this difference already exists. in the baltic sea, the english channel and the north sea, the sulphur limit for ships is now 1%, while it is 3.5% for the other eu seas. from 2015 onwards the difference will be even greater. it is very important that the commission carefully monitors the impact on transport modes, and it should act if there are any signs of a modal shift from shipping to roads. it is also very important that the commission monitors the impact on industry in the northern european areas. i agree with everyone who has said that it would be fair in terms of competition, as well as in terms of human health, to have the same limits in northern and southern europe. therefore i very much welcomed what commissioner potočnik said. this is actually part of this compromise, namely that the commission is studying the impact of extending the 0.1% sulphur limit to all eu territorial seas. i believe that this will prove to be the most cost-effective way to meet the eu air quality standards. finally, all experts to whom i have spoken see that lng gas is the future fuel for shipping. it is both cleaner, meeting all environmental standards, and cheaper. i think that one of the most important measures we need to take is to speed up the lng fuelling infrastructure in eu harbours. the technology for using lng in ships exists. in my country, for example, that technology is being produced. i really hope that these new rules will prove to be a boost for greener shipping in europe.
in writing. i am absolutely in favour of protecting the environment and health. the protection of the cleanliness and vitality of the northern seas is important, but protection should not be achieved by any means. the transitional provisions are far too strict for sulphur emissions in the seca area. for example, finnish industry will not have time to adapt to such a rapid timetable for emission limits. the directive also places the different eu member states on an unequal footing with each other. this is contrary to the principles of the internal market. finland's logistical situation is already very challenging. as such, the provisions will entail considerable costs for the finnish economy. it is irresponsible to dismiss these consequences.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, all the climate scenarios i have seen whether the iea, the potsdam institute, mckinsey or anyone else conclude that the overwhelmingly most cost-effective way to protect the climate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions is to invest in energy savings. these are also the most rapidly feasible, but they are the ones that are very slow to be implemented in practice. the crux of the problem is that so many millions of people make energy-saving and energy-consumption decisions every day. that is why we need tougher policies and more innovative policy measures. for example, the energy saving potential of building renovation is enormous, but it will not be realised unless member states undertake a large-scale consultancy and retraining effort, reaching the entire building sector from architects to plumbers and electricians. this is what the european parliament should do.
mr president, the energy efficiency directive was well intended, but the result is unfair. once again, the member states are being placed in an unequal position by not taking into account what has been done in the past. in practice, countries that are already doing well are being punished with ever more stringent targets, while the calculated targets are the same regardless of the starting points. i represent finland, the country that has paid for the directive. the cost to consumers and businesses alike is hundreds of millions of dollars a year. as we are in the midst of a long-term efficiency drive, further efficiency is becoming more and more expensive. in fact, in a broad sense, the decision now taken encourages those who are doing well to end their current energy efficiency activities and to return to them at the beginning of 2014. this is not in the spirit of good legislation and that is why my country's parliament also put forward a notification directive. mr president, for the reasons i have mentioned, i was unable to support this proposal for a directive. i also hope that this house will consider when it is really appropriate to resort to the undemocratic first reading agreement procedure.
mr president, i'm sorry, i had two cards mixed up. it has been more than a decade since the terrorist attacks in new york in 2001 that launched the war on international terrorism. in a secret program run by the cia, up to 3,000 terrorism suspects were abducted and flown by extraordinary rendition to secret prisons, often for torture. unfortunately, we still have dirty laundry to wash in europe. it is paradoxical that, while strongly criticising the united states for its secret prisons, guantanamo prison camps and cruel interrogation practices of suspected terrorists, the european union has been reluctant to clarify its own role in the matter. this is not a trivial matter. the report also calls on finland to provide all necessary information on all aircraft suspected of involvement in the cia prison flight programme. there's no such thing as a dark secret in the archives of the eu countries about cia flights. i am very much surprised, however, that there is not enough will in europe to clean up the mess.
mr president, it can be said that the infringement directive is based on the principle of health versus industry. the reduction of sulphur emissions is absolutely right in itself, but the protection of health and the environment must not be achieved by any means whatsoever. i could have voted for or against, but this time the balance was more about the catastrophic consequences of the emission limits for finnish industry. the directive also places eu member states in a different position and distorts competition in the internal market. the transitional rules on emission limitations should be the same for all european maritime areas, and that is why i voted against.
mr president, i voted against this report. it is clear that we all agree that the environment must be protected and that the limits on pollution must be reduced. but this must happen in all the maritime regions of europe at the same time, preferably on a global scale. now this only affects the baltic sea. we know the problems of the baltic sea and we know that overfishing is a major problem there. it is not a matter of fraud, but this decision will undoubtedly lead to a significant reduction in the competitiveness of finnish industry. this distorts competition within the european union. i would therefore have wished that this directive had been extended to cover the whole of europe at the same time and that the postponement until 2020 would have been a good thing, because it is not fair, also from the point of view of the internal market, that some countries pay a much higher invoice for their exports than others. in this sense, justice can be achieved by the entire european union being brought under the jurisdiction of this infringement directive at the same time. as already stated, this will cause finnish industry over 800 million invoices per year. finland is an export-dependent economy and in this respect i would have wished the directive to have been extended to cover the whole of the european union at the same time. that's why i voted against this.
in writing. − list of stakeholder meetings on the sulphur directive with rapporteur satu hassi. governments and permanent representations: danish environment minister, ida auken; danish permanent representation; finnish environment minister, ville niinistö; finnish permanent representation; french permanent representation; norwegian ministry of environment; polish permanent representation; swedish environment minister, lena ek; swedish permanent representation;european commission: dg environment, civil servants responsible for the sulphur directive industries. non-governmental organisations: armateurs de france; brittany ferries; confederation of finnish industries; couple systems; european environmental bureau; european cruise council (ecc); european petroleum industry association; exhaust gas cleaning systems association; exxonmobil; federation of finnish technology industries; finnish forest industries federation; finnish shipowners' association; fipra international (representing royal caribbean cruises ltd); germanischer lloyd; international association of classification societies ltd; port of rotterdam; rautaruukki corporation; scandline stena ab; total transport & environment; tt-line gmbh & co.; kg; union of european petroleum independents; wärtsilä.
in writing. - mr president, i am speaking as the representative of finland, from my country's point of view, on the infringement directive. it's a terrible example of how things can go wrong. this decision will mean an additional bill of billions for our export industry, which is the cleanest in the world. the mistake was already made in the imo, which set a 45-fold difference between the sulphur emission limits for shipping in the baltic and mediterranean seas, and now the directive reinforces that distortion of competition. the sulphur content of fuels in the baltic sea, the north sea and the english channel will be reduced from the current limit of 1.0% to 0.1% as early as 2015, while fuels in the mediterranean will be allowed to have a sulphur content of 4.5% until 2020. in particular, this is a blow to finland, which relies on shipping for 90% of its exports. the price of seafood in finland is increasing by 30 to 50% at a time. at current oil prices, this represents a permanent additional cost of eur 600 million per year, equivalent to 9 000 jobs per year. globally, europe would be subject to up to 30 times more stringent regulation than the rest of the world over the next 5-10 years. if the eu were true to its word, it would express its rejection of decisions which systematically distort competition in our market. for comparison, i'll take the example of the banking sector. imagine, for example, a five-year loan rate in germany of 0.35 percent 45 times: that would be 15.75 percent. would this be consistent with our understanding of a level playing field? i don't care how strict the boundaries are, as long as they apply to everyone. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a fair and transparent manner. the polluter always has a competitive advantage. most finnish meps wanted a transitional period for this directive, a clear signal to the imo that the decision should be corrected.
in writing. the committee on the environment's position on the sulphur content of marine fuels was clear. the aim was to introduce stricter sulphur emission limits for all the european union's maritime zones. the council's negotiations with parliament did not achieve its objective. the result was sulphur emission limits, the achievement of which would, in accordance with this directive, cause a clear distortion of competition in the eu internal market. in addition, the implementation of the borders will cause considerable economic damage, especially in the northernmost regions of the eu, especially as a result of the distortion of competition mentioned. although i think that reducing sulphur emissions for health reasons is very welcome, i would have liked to see some recognition in the outcome of the negotiations of the fact that some member states have to bear a much greater burden in these objectives than others. i therefore voted against the adoption of this result of the negotiations.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: europe's strengths are its skilled population and its vast knowledge base, particularly in the field of technology. but in a changing world, nothing can be taken for granted. europe is continually losing its appeal alongside the rising economic powers. by investing in education today, we are investing in the innovation of tomorrow and, through this, in europe's competitiveness and attractiveness. the ageing population is one of europe's greatest challenges. it is therefore important to make appropriate use of the potential of the entire population by providing learning opportunities also for older citizens. i think it is important that employers also recognise their role as promoters of competence. for example, successful job-readiness training of young workers contributes to their adaptation to working life.
mr president, there are certainly a number of possible scenarios for resolving the crisis, none of which are easy because the international community is so divided on this issue. the latest example of this was when hillary clinton on sunday rejected russia's proposal for a un resolution as toothless. on the other hand, russia still does not accept the demand of the west that assad must step down, and russia also opposes additional sanctions against syria as well as iran. many colleagues have already made it clear that this war is being waged by extremist movements, by jihadists, and that it is also possible that this crisis will spread very quickly to neighbouring countries. but somehow the outside world has to step in and bring about a ceasefire, during which a political solution to this crisis can be found. it is good that lady ashton has brought up here how syria's neighbouring countries, along with turkey and jordan, have taken in growing flows of refugees. we must also act to ensure that humanitarian aid arrives.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? the fisheries policy is one of europe's greatest failures. the basic problem is widespread overfishing in all eu seas. this is by far the greatest challenge we have to tackle in reforming our common fisheries policy. today, two thirds of europe's fish stocks are overfished. the situation is worst in the mediterranean. there, 82 percent of the stock is overfished beyond the scientifically sustainable level. but the situation is almost as alarming in all european seas. this is particularly true of my home waters in the baltic sea. overfishing means in practice that there is overcapacity in the fishing fleet and that too many boats are catching too few fish. in europe there is no definition of overcapacity. since commissioner damanaki is here, i would therefore like to make it a point to call for such a definition again. a definition would mean that no one could say that overcapacity or overfishing no longer existed. we need the definition to be able to have a clearer political debate. overfishing is not only an ecological disaster, it is also an economic and social disaster. over the past ten years, european fisheries have fallen from 5.5 million tonnes to 4 million tonnes. at the same time, an estimated 130 000 jobs have been lost in the fishing industry. the world bank estimates that global overfishing costs the world some 40 billion euros annually. that's the same as the finnish state budget. the poor state of the fish stocks has also made it necessary to subsidize the fisheries sector with public funds, which can easily lead to continued overfishing. in times of financial strain, i think taxpayers' money could be put to much better use. we must therefore make fishing profitable again, as it has been for thousands of years in europe. one of the main points in my report and that of my predecessor, carl haglund, is to achieve maximum sustainable yield by 2015. maximum sustainable yield means that you don't fish faster than the fish stock can reproduce. that sounds somewhat logical and simple, but unfortunately it is not self-evident. another key point is to get a ban on drafting. today, 1.7 million tons of dead fish are thrown overboard every year. a policy is only as good as its implementation. we must therefore ensure that the decisions taken on the reform of the common fisheries policy are also respected. at present, many member states are negligent in reporting the actual size of their fishing fleets. this in turn makes it difficult to estimate the extent of overcapacity. there are currently few sanctions against those who break the rules. i therefore propose the possibility of freezing eu aid from the common european maritime and fisheries fund to countries which do not comply with the laws and regulations we have decided on. these three things should be at the heart of the new fisheries policy that we are going to decide on this year, and which will affect the fisheries sector for the next ten years. australians and americans have shown that the right policy measures matter. they were once in the same situation as europe is now, but they have managed to break the downward spiral. this sounds like the right path for europe, and we can achieve it if we take the right decisions in the coming reform.
rapporteur. − mr president, i had actually prepared a different speech but the discussion was so interesting that i scrapped it. commissioner damanaki started her speech by asking for forgiveness. i think the priestly phrase goes, ‘ego te absolvo’: i grant her forgiveness. then we have minister mavroyiannis. i am not going to forgive him because his stance on catch date actually stinks. it stinks of slightly old fish and i do not like it. there is a swedish saying that we skirt around a question like a cat moving around hot porridge. we are skirting around the question of technical improvements. i have the feeling that mr ferreira has not read carefully the first part of karl marx’s ‘das kapital’ in which he describes the needle factory and needle manufacturing. the progress we have made in fishing is almost equivalent to what karl marx described 200 years ago. if mr ferreira’s point is that we should get on a level with all the fishing fleets in europe before we can take any real measures, then that is a race to the bottom – the bottom of the sea that is. i think it is just illogical. it is a way of escaping the real question. so dear friends, we have been sitting here for a while, the discussion has been very interesting and it is set to go on for some time.
in writing. this week, the european parliament passed a landmark law protecting the fundamental rights of europeans. it will create a minimum level of protection for all victims of crime in the member states. the reform of the law is important not only for eu citizens travelling but also for those in a particularly vulnerable position, who are afforded special protection by the law. the eu has also adopted a number of measures to combat child abuse, including a ban on the use of images of victims in the media. women who have experienced violence are protected by limiting contact between the victim and the perpetrator. i am very pleased that the union is taking concrete measures to protect fundamental rights. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which entered into force a few years ago, protects citizens' rights in so far as eu law is applied, but it has not yet succeeded in creating a fundamental rights protection system outside the eu. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment. the adoption of this directive would be an important next step towards a union in which the fundamental rights of every citizen are safeguarded.
mr president, the free movement of persons is a fundamental right guaranteed to all citizens of the european union. the enjoyment of rights and freedoms also means that citizens can travel within the eu in search of work, education or a better standard of living. free movement is one of the eu's greatest achievements and its ultimate aim is to provide equal opportunities and equal treatment for all eu citizens. equality also means that all eu citizens receive the same level of rights, support and protection if they are the victim of a crime in the european union. it is not just a question of establishing common minimum standards but also of ensuring the same level of protection for victims of crime in the eu. it is also about improving the trust of eu citizens in national justice systems. in general, the directive will make it possible to increase confidence in the judicial systems in all member states. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal for a directive on minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime.
mr president, commissioner, the quality of european agricultural products is world-renowned and excellent. to promote the sale of these high-quality products and to raise consumer awareness, we need quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs. i am very pleased with the report by mr garcía pérez, you have achieved an excellent result in the negotiations. i am also very pleased that the report now obliges the commission to report to parliament and the council on the new labelling system for local farming and direct sales. this is a real step forward in promoting short supply chains and local food. the new labels give farmers a real opportunity to add value to their products. we must, however, ensure that the new labelling system is appropriate for all member states. too strict a restriction will not advance this good cause. the system must take account of, among other things, the sparsity of population and the long distances in some of our member states.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs auconie and lamberts for the excellent work they have done on these proposals for regulations. in particular, i would like to stress the importance of investing in social enterprises whose main objective is not to make a profit but to develop those enterprises whose activities are of the greatest value to society as a whole. in many member states, these companies are legally framed to operate in the same environment and under the same rules as other companies, although it is certainly much more difficult for them to raise funds and investments for their own activities. in many cases, the social enterprise has been born out of an organisation, foundation or voluntary activity, and needs capital to operate. i believe that this regulation will give confidence and a positive image to funds specialising in social entrepreneurship and to those who invest in them. as has already been pointed out here, we must not be blind: a good intention does not prevent these funds from being misused, and it is therefore important to support proposals to prevent the misuse of these funds or the distortion of competition between the different funds. for the sake of confidence, loopholes in tax evasion and tax havens must also be clearly closed.
for the alde group mr president, i would also like to thank mr häfneri and the other shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation. we are in fact quite in agreement: we are in favour of transparency and the right of citizens to information. but parliament must also have the right to information, otherwise we cannot control, we cannot influence. it is good that parliament and the council have finally reached agreement on this mutual disclosure of documents. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. it is regrettable, as has already been said here, that this agreement does not cover foreign and security policy. it is no longer possible today for foreign and security policy to be the exclusive prerogative of a particular elite, and for even members of parliament, members of committees, to be given information as a condition for decision-making. however, we must look ahead and i hope that the next agreement will be a common one for all the institutions, so that parliament, the council and the commission will have the same rules on the publication of documents.
mr president, syria is in the midst of a civil war and the situation in the country is alarming. it is absurd that the international community has been watching the deepening crisis from the sidelines with no action since january 2011. great words and great thoughts have been exchanged, but words have not been translated into deeds. there simply has not been enough political will to intervene. the post-world war ii world order and its successor, the united nations, are not effective enough to respond to today's humanitarian crises. the european union has also not been effective. its foreign and security policy is suffering from toothlessness. today, war is no longer fought on the battlefield between the armies of two clearly distinct states, with the greatest single casualty in modern wars always being civilians. this is also the case in syria, whose development has been monitored by modern technology like a movie.
mr president, the recent events in russia are unfortunate examples of the misuse of culture and religion in the political game. unfortunately, this is not the first or last case, as we remember the murders of khodorkovsky, lebedev, magnitsky and other unsolved journalists. breach of the peace is always a crime, and there are penalties for it in other countries. the most problematic thing about russia, however, is the arbitrariness with which it dealt with the matter. since the incident, the russian duma has passed new laws against citizens expressing their opinions. the greatest concern, alongside the fate of individual human beings, is how freedom of speech will be protected in russia in the future. is europe going to stand by and watch all this? the protection of human rights and the rule of law must be an important part of a democratic society. we must do everything in europe to promote freedom of expression and democracy, including in russia.
mr president, the recent events at the marikana mine should not be regarded as an isolated incident only, or as some kind of legacy of colonialism or apartheid: they are a symptom of deeply-rooted and widespread disappointment and discontent. we should urge the south african leadership to make sure that it delivers on its promises to its people and makes every effort to reduce the social gap. we know that the pressure points and weaknesses in south africa are increased poverty, lack of inclusive growth, labour questions, unemployment and so on, and south africa needs to shift its focus to the implementation of its good policy planning and analysis, as the world bank’s president jim yong kim put it on his recent visit to south africa.
mr president, the news from south africa in august of the shooting of the miners was shocking and shocking. how is it possible that a peaceful protest, a strike, can be interrupted and the police open fire? had i not seen the live news footage, at least i might have doubted whether this news was true, since the news from south africa has been mostly positive recently. so what should we do? i think the eu should now demand that this matter be thoroughly investigated. the eu cannot just end up demanding something from others, but i think lady ashton, as an expert on foreign policy, should also offer help. the eu must provide assistance to improve working conditions and to find out what could be done and how the eu could help.
the author. - the need to ensure that the rights of the child are respected and that the rights of the child are protected; the systematic and state-led discrimination against the rohingya muslims has not gone away, despite the expansion of civil liberties since president thein sein came to power in the spring of 2011. political prisoners have already been released in the country. now we are talking about hundreds of dead and tens of thousands of rohingya who have been driven from their homes. the conflict has been going on for hundreds of years. president sein must be given a strong message that the treatment of minorities and their expulsion from their homes will not be tolerated. the rights and freedoms of citizenship should be extended to all people in myanmar's territory, regardless of their religion or background. this is not a political request, but a reminder of myanmar's obligations under international law.
the author. - mr president, commissioner, the situation of muslim minorities, particularly the rohingya muslims, has become increasingly harsh in burma. the situation came to a head in early june when a buddhist mob killed ten muslims in retaliation for the alleged rape of a buddhist girl. according to international sources, some of myanmar's buddhist monks are deliberately fomenting sectarian tensions, particularly against muslims. the rohingya have lived in myanmar for centuries, but the military junta stripped them of their citizenship in 1982. the rohingya are also not among the 135 or so legally recognized ethnic minorities in the country. the most extreme estimates suggest that genocide may soon be underway. although we have recently received encouraging, even good, news from burma, it is quite clear that the international community must not be blinded. we must remember that these processes of change are only just beginning. the international community must pay attention to this case.
for the alde group mr president, the rohingya muslims are one of the most persecuted minorities in the world and although the human rights situation in burma has improved, the situation of the rohingya minority has only worsened. what at least surprises me in this case is also the fact that aung san sui kyi, a human rights activist well known and respected both internationally and in her own country, has been completely silent on this matter. but this is a human rights violation in his own country. one might think that he who enjoys such authority could and would like to say something on the matter so that the situation would improve. i think that aung san suu kyi, who has won the nobel peace prize, could also raise her voice on this matter and the eu could also do what it can.
in writing. we have witnessed the struggle led by aung san suu kyi and the great strides towards a more democratic burma. however, one major human rights problem remains, and the burmese muslim minority has been in the headlines in recent weeks. violence between buddhists and rohingya muslims began in june in western burma, when a group of muslim men were accused of raping and murdering a buddhist girl and killed 10 muslims in retaliation. since then, violence has increased in both directions, but the rohingya have been outnumbered and journalists have reported that burmese security forces have even encouraged violence against muslims or at least turned their backs on them. the un describes the rohingya muslims as one of the most persecuted people groups in the world. diplomatic sources and human rights groups are concerned that the same 800,000 people living in western burma are a "blind spot" in burma's shift towards a more democratic society, one that even aung san suu kyi has barely taken a stand on. although rohingya muslims have lived in burma for generations, they have been denied burmese citizenship, have to apply for permission to marry or have more than two children, and notify the authorities if they want to travel outside their home village. these restrictions were originally imposed by the burmese military administration in 1982. these human rights abuses should now be repealed as a matter of urgency as part of the other steps taken by burma in recent years to establish a democratic society.
mr president, we have been under quite a lot of pressure as members of parliament to abandon this resolution. i cannot quite understand the alde view that we should say nothing on this matter, because it is extremely important, given the situation in that area, and the urgency of this matter, that we should specifically try to say something that would alleviate that situation. the hungarian government has published a statement on its website that the azerbaijani ministry of justice had assured hungary that safarov would continue to serve his sentence in azerbaijan. unfortunately, that didn't happen. instead, he was pardoned, promoted, and became a kind of national hero. it is extremely important that we condemn the way in which safarov was treated in azerbaijan. we must also make every effort to ensure that the relations between the countries of the region, armenia and azerbaijan, can be restored to a peaceful level and that neighbourly relations can be resumed.
the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. - mr president, i am therefore speaking as draftsman of the opinion of parliament's committee on foreign affairs and on behalf of the committee. the budget for the common foreign and security policy should be more transparent and more detailed than it is today. crisis management operations and the budgets of the various eusrs should be entered separately under their own budget line. this would give the user of budgetary power, parliament and the citizens, more guidance and information on where this money is going. it would also be easier to demand money for a certain item. the problem with the european common foreign and security policy is not money, but the lack of a common will, a common line. the eu's foreign policy priorities have not been set and there are generally two lines. i would like to mention the budget for the foreign office, which is proposed to increase by 6%. that's a lot of growth. on the one hand, i understand that, because it is a new way of working, but even then we must look at what can be saved.
mr president, my thanks to the rapporteurs for their good work and balanced proposals. the most important issue now is maintaining our credibility by remembering the reality outside these walls and keeping in mind agreed priorities. this means not cutting investments in action to promote growth and jobs, and sticking to the europe 2020 strategy. we must therefore maintain spending in research, development and innovation. i applaud the efforts of mr la via towards this goal. it is the right way. in italian they would probably say ‘la via correta’. this does not mean ignoring the need for budgetary restraint; cuts must be made, but they must be made in areas which do not harm our priorities. mr vaughan has done a great job in this direction. at the same time we must not give in to council pressure to limit the budget in preparation for the negotiations for the mff.
in writing. at present, passengers' rights are regulated by a number of different directives, depending on the mode of travel. i was in fact the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and i am glad that many of my views were also taken into account in the final report adopted by parliament. as travel increases and the field of action becomes more and more documented, rights need to be given due attention and regulated by law. there should be transparency in pricing, no acceptance of hidden costs; there should be quick and effective means of resolving disputes; there should always be clear and quick contacts to resolve problems encountered during the journey; when travelling by more than one means of transport (for example, by train and airplane), the liability issues associated with travelling in problem situations should be clarified, and so on. it is also important to ensure that the travel rights of persons with reduced mobility are uniform across the different instruments and take into account the challenges of travel. the next step in passenger legislation should be to move towards a single clear regulation, where the fundamental rights of passengers are clearly enshrined in law throughout the eu.
the question of the blue card. mr president, i now ask the representative of the committee on regional development quite directly: is this a significant loss for countries such as greece, italy, bulgaria, portugal and spain? and what will happen to the poorest areas of rich countries, such as wales, northern and eastern finland, and the poorest areas of poland? are these areas suffering badly from this?
as european decision-makers, we must always bear in mind the european values of democracy, human rights, freedom of expression and the rule of law. the european union too has one central idea, the internal market, the four freedoms. it is also very important for us to ensure that barriers to trade are removed. the acaa is a purely technical trade agreement that removes barriers to trade. i am concerned that there are some people here who want to politicize this agreement. not like this. i understand that there are anti-jewish and anti-israeli forces at work here who want to make politics of this matter, but let us return to the basics: it is a technical and commercial agreement of great european benefit. european taxpayers and citizens need better quality, cheaper medicines, good medical equipment, and we need this agreement to meet these challenges. i hope that this agreement will be voted on today. i'm really concerned about this political climate. let us remember that europe has a history that when anti-semitism was first fomented in the 1930s, the first thought was that you should not buy from jews, and what that led to. some people want to bring up a similar idea, that we should stop trading with israel, even though it is a technical agreement that benefits all europeans. that's why i hope that today we will vote clearly in favor of acaa.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank my colleague mr siwiec. i would hope that the whole s&d group could speak with the same voice on this matter, because the acaa on trade in medicinal products is specifically about mutual approval of technical regulations. the conclusion of an agreement is conditional on the transposition of the acquis communautaire into national law by a partner country, in this case israel, and it should of course be a great thing when a non-eu country follows the same rules. in practice, as many have said, this means that there is no need for a separate approval procedure, which would add time and costs, and it is the consumers, the european consumers, who stand to gain. the overall economic impact is positive for the eu, with trade in medicinal products covered by these agreements between the eu and israel having reached almost eur 1 billion, so the recognition of the certification will mean savings and boost exports. there are also benefits that cannot be quantified, such as improved predictability for businesses, the harmonisation of systems and, on the other hand, a reduction in protectionism. it is estimated that the agreement could be interpreted as an upgrade in the eu-israel relationship, i.e. a strengthening of relations in a situation where the middle east peace process is at a standstill. it is good to remember that the peace process requires two parties, and the palestinian side has not been willing to come to the table. it should also be recalled that the negotiation of the acaa is already part of the eu-israel action plan of 2004 under the european neighbourhood policy. i personally would like to see more and more cooperation between the eu and israel in a number of areas, because it would really benefit both sides. i urge my colleagues to vote today in favour of this agreement.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because it is very timely. next year marks 20 years since the concept of eu citizenship was introduced. despite this, many eu citizens are still unaware of their rights and opportunities in europe. the economic crisis has cooled people's attitudes towards the eu. the eu is increasingly seen as a mere bureaucracy whose laws only complicate rather than facilitate the daily lives of its citizens. it is primarily the politicians' job to convince citizens of the benefits of the eu. citizens' participation in the public debate on eu policies must be promoted. only in this way can we build a europe that really has the support of the people.
i voted in favour of this report. i think it is very good that the concept of european citizenship is being brought back into the spotlight. as it has become clear today, it is 20 years since the concept of european citizenship was launched. it is not enough that such a concept exists, but the biggest problem facing the european union at the moment is that the citizens do not feel that the union is their own. the citizens feel that the union is more a union of the elite, a union of the hard core. it is therefore good that next year we should focus on what the european union really means to the citizens. the european parliament is also currently discussing the citizens' europe programme, for which i am the rapporteur. in the programme for the next programming period, we will be putting about 10 cents a year on the table for each citizen of the european union. it shows that we are currently taking into account the economic and other indicators of the union, at rather low levels. it is therefore of the utmost importance to strengthen citizenship and the participation of people in the decision-making process of the union.
i voted in favour of this report. more than ten years after the commission's communication, not all passengers are aware of their rights. i believe that this is due to the indifference of tourism companies and entrepreneurs to legislation at eu level. it is also due to a lack of information. many passengers waive their rights, believing that defending them would be costly and difficult. the report makes a number of points on the problem of pricing. many wonder why the final price of a trip differs from the price advertised. i hope that this report will help us to solve the problems of pricing travel and to find common, effective and fair rules for all parties.
i voted in favour of this report. in the current economic crisis, supporting smes is important because of their important role in maintaining employment and prosperity and in promoting growth. the vast majority of new jobs are created in smes, particularly in companies in new sectors. smes are the backbone of the eu economy. the report supports the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, which is helping the eu to become more competitive in an increasingly competitive global environment. the report therefore sets out how we can make european companies more truly international. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one. by supporting youth entrepreneurship, we can also tackle youth unemployment and prevent youth exclusion.
mr president, at the seminar on the single market we had a lively discussion on the factors which have most changed the lives of citizens over the last 20 years. the importance of the freedom of choice offered by the common market is often emphasized in public discourse. however, most of the participants in the seminar felt that the most significant benefit, alongside the mobility of goods and services, has been the increased freedom of movement for citizens in a europe without borders. we must also ensure that workers, students and travellers can rely on the implementation of their rights when moving within the internal market. i hope that we will not adopt the nationalist and protectionist attitudes that have been brought to the fore by the economic crisis, but will do everything we can to support the common internal market. not only in economic terms, but also because they integrate europe culturally and intellectually. it is important that we continue to promote mobility for all citizens, especially the most vulnerable.
mr president, the future of europe rests on the shoulders of our children and young people, and it could be said that even those who are opposed to european union cooperation are of the opinion that the flagships of european success have been the training programmes and above all the erasmus programme. in the situation we are in at the moment in the european union, in the midst of this recession, we need to make a specific contribution to education and mobility, we all know that. what does the market need? quality labour, and we can only guarantee quality labour through quality education, and as has been said on many occasions, erasmus has been a success story in this. we are concerned about the development of exclusion, and we are responding to that through education and investment, and that is why it is necessary. it is very worrying if this end is cut now. i do not think that cyprus, as the presidency, wants their presidency to be remembered as having a commissioner for education and as the launch of the european training programmes. we must invest in education, because only then can europe have a future and a hope.
i voted in favour of the report. i am particularly pleased that the report encourages employers to be more courageous in hiring young people who have studied abroad and to carry out information in such a way that it also takes into account the most vulnerable consumers. the report also states that the commission should monitor and monitor the effectiveness and success of information campaigns. i wholeheartedly support this proposal, because if campaigns do not reach the target groups chosen or if consumers do not understand what we want to say to them, we will be doing useless work and wasting scarce resources. i hope that this report will help us to find new common ways of improving the position of citizens and smes, and of increasing their mobility and their confidence in the union.
mr president, i also voted in favour of this agreement. japan is the european union's second largest trading partner and a major one. last year, trade was worth 160 billion euros, and we all know as europeans that japan has a very strong presence in europe, above all in our industrial markets. it is also very important that european companies also have easier access to the japanese market. it is important to remember that reciprocity is a good thing in trade policy. there is currently an order for the removal of unnecessary duties. europe also needs growth and therefore both sides can benefit from this free trade. of course, as european decision-makers, we must always bear in mind that while the european union is a community of values, it is also important to strengthen links with japan, which, despite its cultural diversity and background, shares the core european values of democracy, human rights, freedom of opinion and the rule of law, and which we should also cherish when we do business.
in writing. - there has been a lot of talk lately about people not knowing their rights as eu citizens. this has led many to question the benefits the eu offers to itself. i voted in favour of this report because it will make it easier for the rights of the eu citizen to be realised in practice. the right to consular protection in a country where one's own country is not represented is one of the most important rights of eu citizens. i believe that in crisis situations, eu missions should have a more prominent role in coordinating aid. in addition, they should be able to be entrusted with other consular functions, where appropriate. a stronger role for eu delegations could also positively increase european identity.
for the alde group mr president, on behalf of my whole political group, i would like to thank mr diamandouros and his entire office for the very good work they have done, particularly in the area of transparency and good governance in the eu. i am grateful to your office for publishing the principles of good administration, but i am sorry to say that the commission has to be given a hard time in this connection. the lisbon treaty should have set out the principles of good governance for the citizens of the eu, but unfortunately the commission has not put forward such a proposal. it is good that the ombudsman has given them, but they are principles, they are not binding in the way that the law on good administration is. i hope that before the work is finished the commission will make a proposal on good governance and, in the same way, a proposal on transparency. this proposal for greater transparency that you have tabled has actually reduced transparency or would have reduced transparency if it had been adopted. this is a disgrace. in the 2010s, the rules for transparency are different from what they were 10 or 20 years ago. on behalf of my group, i ask the commission to bring a good administration law to parliament and the council on this matter and to improve transparency and to adopt a new regulation on increased transparency.
i am pleased, mr president, commissioner, that the eu has so clearly expressed, and many people, including the high representative, lady ashton, and the european council, have so clearly expressed their disappointment that another undemocratic election was held in belarus. none of the candidates classified as opposition candidates were able to pass, as many key opposition leaders are either in prison or have been prevented from registering as candidates. we have pursued a so-called two-track policy in the eu, with a desire to maintain dialogue with civil society and sanctions against the political leadership. i should have asked the commissioner, now that the sanctions are about to expire, how we are going to proceed so that our line remains consistent and, on the other hand, after we have started this kind of modernisation dialogue with belarus this summer, what is the fate of this dialogue?
i would like to thank commissioner füle for his intellectually strong speech and for the excellent way in which both the commission and the european parliament are very much in agreement on what should be done now with regard to belarus. it is, of course, a great shame that in the middle of europe there is a country which has no free elections and which tortures, which has the death penalty and which does not allow political opposition. it is important to continue to work with civil society and, as has already been said here, for example, european youth and student organisations could be more in touch with belarusian young people and students and member states could attract and offer places to study for belarusian young people, because this is the way to connect with the future generation of strong influencers.
mr president, the georgian elections were indeed an encouraging example for the whole caucasus region, and for this the saakashvili administration deserves special credit. as many have noted, there is certainly room for improvement in the implementation of election finance legislation. the eu has also paid attention to problems in the judiciary, but in recent years good work has been done in georgia to eradicate corruption and improve public services. the active participation of citizens in the vote and the visible activity of civil society have also been very encouraging signs of the establishment of democratic values in the country. i would have liked to ask the commissioner, when the visa waiver dialogue between the eu and georgia was launched in the summer of 2012, what is the current state of play of this action plan and what are the next steps towards reform?
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, the uae is an interesting and extremely controversial country. on the other hand, there is a strong emphasis on education and the desire to make society a country based on high skills. it is therefore very tragic and strange and strange that at the same time such a country should be committing such flagrant violations of human rights, perhaps the worst example of which, in my view, is the toleration of torture. the continuing deterioration of the position of women and, on the other hand, the position of migrant workers and domestic workers is a major concern, to which attention has already been paid here. they are indeed subject to violence and even sexual abuse, and that is why the debate in the european parliament on the united arab emirates is particularly important.
mr president, the united arab emirates is suffering from a human rights crisis. i think that no one in this chamber will deny that, and we must not turn a blind eye to that, even though there is certainly a fight against fundamentalists in the country at the moment. women's rights are very weak in the country. the women are being interpreted according to islamic law and have no access to civil justice. the weak position and the almost unrighteous situation of migrant workers has also been brought to the fore here. in particular, on the human rights situation, i would like to highlight the freedom of assembly and also the freedom of expression, because the authorities have repressed many quite peaceful demonstrations and arrested activists, and human rights defenders and government critics face a very wide range of opposition. they are imprisoned and they are also discriminated against. these are situations that need to be improved, but at the same time, of course, we must ensure that the country does not fall into the hands of fundamentalists.
i would simply like to say, mr president, that the situation is much more complex than is generally understood. i myself signed the resolution, but i cannot consider it the most urgent. it is sad that the arab spring has become a backwater for human rights in some countries, and i personally understand the concern of the uae leadership about events in egypt, for example. in egypt, the muslim brotherhood won through the democratic process, but the question is, what are the prospects there? is it the future of democracy and good governance or political control? egyptian human rights groups have expressed concern about the new constitutional law's features, as it weakens women's rights, leaving it unclear who is subject to sharia and who is not. that's why we need to keep a close eye on the whole house. all the things that come with the arab spring in different parts of the world.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i have followed very closely the work of the late benazir bhutto and shahbaz bhatt for a freer pakistan. bhattihan was here in the spring of 2010, the year before he was murdered. he told me that even then he knew that one day the fundamentalists would kill him, but he felt that his work was more valuable than the fear of quitting it. this time, it is different and encouraging to see the widespread support for malala's case across pakistan and the rest of the world. a violent and hateful act has turned against itself. the issue of education and the right of all to education is an important part of the fight against terrorism. the brave malala started her blog at the age of 11, where she told about life in the taliban-controlled part of pakistan. about how she hid schoolbooks under her headscarf and how she read secretly even when the taliban banned girls from school. there are several million children in pakistan who are not in school, and most of them are girls. teaching critical and analytical thinking is what scares terrorist organizations like the taliban. pakistan has no doubt got a new hero. the country is fighting terrorism, but it's clear that the fight requires not only the military but other tools as well. as malala said, if the next generation doesn't get pens and books, they'll get guns from terrorists.
mr president, the pakistani teenager malala yousafzai, who was the target of an assassination attempt by the taliban, deserves our respect for her courage in defending the rights of children, and in particular of girls. in pakistan, the rights of children and girls are weak. a lot of lobbying, legislative reforms and, in particular, a change in attitudes are needed to improve the status of girls. yousafzai has been campaigning for girls' education on her blog. in pakistan, as in many other developing countries, parents often fail to understand the importance of educating girls for sustainable development for the benefit of society as a whole. estimates of the literacy rate of girls in pakistan go as low as 12 percent. if pakistan wants to develop as a society, they need a generation that has been educated, that has the ability to build a better pakistan.
mr president, cambodia is preparing for elections next year and the eu, as the largest single donor of development aid, would now like to remind the world of the importance of developing freedom of expression and democracy. in the context of the last elections in 2009, eu election observers reported that the cambodian elections did not meet international criteria for democratic elections and appealed to the government to reform several electoral practices. the un has also recently issued recommendations and guidelines on the necessary reforms. the second big problem is that when the freedom of speech is severely restricted, the political debate is also severely restricted, leaving little room for opposition parties to criticize even corruption and the treatment of land mines. at the same time, official statistics are often kept secret, which in turn makes it difficult for citizens to participate in the political debate. it is now time for cambodia to promote the rule of law, release the human rights activists jailed in october and address the arbitrary detentions and violence reported by human rights organisations.
mr president, i voted in favour of the european semester of economic policy. i would like to stress here that it is very important that we monitor the member states' proper action and it can be seen that in recent years even the large member states, such as germany and france, have been moving away from common objectives. it would be important for the countries to stick to the recommendations made, but it is very good that this has not become what some members are calling for, and on the other hand the european parliament has also called on occasion for an even stricter economic pact to be drawn up between all 25 member states or even all 27, and i can say that the fewer agreements outside the treaties, the better. i think that we must now concentrate on the respect and observance of existing agreements. that's how we can move forward.
i too voted in favour of this resolution on russia's membership of the wto. i would like to say at this point that when we make policy in the european union and when we build relations, we must always remember that the european union is first and foremost a community of values. we must also apply the same standards to russia as we apply to other countries, and the human rights situation in russia remains very worrying. the debate here has raised the khodorkovsky case, for example, and i think the european union must have the courage to address these issues more forcefully. if we look at russia and belarus, we can see that they have exactly the same policy, they have exactly the same attitude to human rights issues, but we dare to make a big deal about belarus, not russia, and in this respect we must have the same attitude towards all countries, and i hope that with this wto membership human rights issues will also start to rise and take on a better form in russia.
i voted in favour of this resolution on the elections in belarus. i think it is important to send a message to belarus that we are really concerned that the lukashenko government does not accept the opposition, that there are many arrests, and that we can say that the values that are important to us europeans are not being implemented there. we europeans are therefore particularly concerned about belarus, which is situated on european soil, precisely because it is a place where democracy, human rights, freedom of expression and the rule of law can be established, and that is why we must continue to work vigorously to ensure that belarus can take the path of democracy.
i also voted in favour of this resolution on the elections in georgia. it is very important to support the young democracy in georgia, and it can be said that the contradictory situation in which georgia is currently living, due to the russian occupation of the abkhazian region and so on, means that this young state needs support in order to be able to take real steps on the road to democracy. i would like to return to the importance of the european union, of our role as european politicians in strengthening democracy, human rights and freedom of expression in our neighbourhood. it is always good to remember that the european union is first and foremost a community of values. this is our central mission and that is why we want to be building this pan-european dimension on the front of peace and prosperity, and it can be said that georgia clearly wants to belong to europe and the west and that is why their democratic development must also be supported in this new situation.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the card payment market in europe has enormous potential for savings and expansion, not to mention mobile and internet payments. i support the commission's view that different payment methods must be promoted, made safer and more user-friendly. in my own initiative work, i will focus primarily on card payments, because i believe that it is not sensible to regulate the mobile and internet payments market too strictly at this stage, when the market is still developing and finding its shape, and we cannot predict what payment innovations the market will develop in the coming months and years. the reliability and cost-effectiveness of card, internet and mobile payments are also essential for the growth of european online commerce and for the functioning of the digital single market, among others. the security of payments should not be overlooked, although i do not think we should overemphasize security at the expense of user-friendliness, otherwise users will not appear in payment systems. it should also be remembered that the use of cash is not completely safe either. one of the main issues raised in the preparation of this report was the cost of using payment cards. i would hope that the commission, when it is outlining the next steps in the development of the payments market, will take account of the costs of using cash and cheques in the interests of diversity. the most discussed aspects of the report were the multilateral interchange fees, so called mifs. in some cases, mifs are too high in relation to the costs they cover and can sometimes act as a competitive constraint.on the other hand, there is currently no alternative financing model to the card payment system and therefore we cannot, in my view, prohibit this existing business model. it would be absolutely essential to have a thorough impact assessment from the commission before we propose action on mifs, whether we propose action to limit mifs, to gradually reduce them to near zero or to ban them altogether. if we decide to ask for the ban on mifs, there is a risk that the costs of running the card system will be passed directly to the cardholder, i.e. the consumer, and that the use of payment cards might actually be reduced, which is totally contrary to the commission's original proposal. i hope that more and more players other than banks will also gain a foothold in the payments market. however, i am not in favour of third parties accessing customer bank details until the security and functionality of the system can be fully guaranteed. finally, the objective of common technical standards should be based on the premise that standardisation must remove obstacles, not add to them, and not cause discomfort to market operators. this report is a natural extension of the sepa project: crossborder card payments should be as easy as credit transfers within the sepa area.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this excellent report. the functioning of the internal market requires that there be a uniform type-approval for machinery and equipment throughout the eu. this regulation will be of great help to european tractor manufacturers, for example, because the mutual recognition of type-approval will give the industry in this sector better conditions than at present to expand its activities to other sectors (the speaker's microphone was switched off). for example, in the work of farmers and forestry workers, machinery and equipment play a significant role, and unfortunately, hazards are also frequently involved. as accidents at work are common, farmers can never be too concerned about safety at work. the safety of machinery and equipment is an essential part of a safe working environment. the common european type-approval is therefore very important in order to enable every european farmer and forestry operator to work with safe machinery. high standards of road and occupational safety and environmental protection are also important elements in this regulation. however, national flexibility must be found in this regulation too, because it is good for small manufacturers, for example, to have the possibility of national type approval. it will alleviate the administrative burden for small manufacturers, many of whom sell machines only within individual member states. it is also important that the maximum speed for agricultural and forestry vehicles can be regulated at national level.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, we are discussing a very important report, which is not known in the member states and has not been mentioned by the finnish media, for example. i am therefore concerned about the same issue as many other members here, the commission and the council, namely democracy. the report promotes a clear move towards federalism, both in terms of the concrete proposals and the principles it sets out. i quote the text of the report: 'the intergovernmental method has reached its limits and is not well suited to democratic and effective decision-making in the 21st century. we should move towards a real eu federation". it is therefore not unclear what the report's vision is for the future of the eu and europe. in this respect, the report fits perfectly into the wave of new regulation that has followed the euro crisis. it is therefore very important that referendums on federalism be held in europe in order to promote civil debate and to ensure genuine support from citizens. parliament's consideration is not enough. we must have direct support from the people, because if the people do not give their direct support to this federal development, their alienation from the eu will continue, even though the eu's integration will seemingly deepen. if this happens, the next referendum will not be about integration but about leaving the eu.
question for the commissioner mr president, mr klinz, you have successfully chaired parliament's so-called crisis committee, where for two and a half years we listened to european and non-european experts on how to solve this economic crisis. i ask you, has the council, has the commission taken account of these proposals made by the crisis committee? are you satisfied with this cooperation with parliament and the council?
i voted in favour of this report. when the safety of people and the freedoms of the individual are at stake, the situation must be assessed in the light of the acceptability of the objectives and the principles of proportionality. the report, while in principle restricting individual freedoms and increasing state control, is an important piece of legislation that can prevent individual terrorist attacks in the future. it is also not difficult to justify the acceptability of such an objective to the general public. it is important for the effective fight against terrorism that member states comply with uniform acts which are also effectively implemented in practice.
i voted in favour of this important report. securing europe's competitiveness in the future requires investing in social investment, especially now in the midst of the economic crisis. if properly implemented, social investment increases employment and the well-being of citizens. therefore, they should not be seen as mere expenditure but rather as investments in the future. it is particularly important to invest in measures to promote employment. both young people and the longterm unemployed need support in their transition to working life. in addition, attention should also be paid to the quality of working life and to the sharing of work. i think the idea of a social investment pact is very welcome.
i voted in favour of this important report. i would also like to add a few preliminary points. today's children are born into a world where computers, the internet and social media are a natural part of everyday life, but children and young people do not recognise the dangers of the internet and the risks associated with data protection in the same way as adults. this poses new challenges for all of us in protecting children and young people. online communities also serve as an arena for inappropriate contact and bullying. child protection online requires effective educational cooperation between families, schools, civil society and internet service providers, in addition to official controls. in addition, children should be taught in school the skills they need to survive in the digital world, and consumer education is also important. parents are ultimately the best chance to control and protect their offspring, and therefore they too should be made aware of the dangers of the online world and how to combat them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important report. i am particularly pleased that the eu is seeking to reform its promotion policy in parallel with the reform of the rest of its agricultural policy. the reform will also help to support high-quality european food production and promote the position of european products on the global market. i also welcome the idea of simplifying administrative procedures for promotion. these measures have long been on the wish lists of many member states and food chain operators.
in writing. - i found this report important because the digital world is really evolving at a rapid pace and our debate should keep pace with it. that is why i supported and voted in favour of this report. the internet is increasingly and at an earlier stage of everyday life for children and young people. it is important that the school world keeps up with the changes in the digital world. the school should teach children and young people practical, safe and critical use of digital technology and the internet. the digital transformation of the school world and education requires ensuring that teachers' knowledge is also kept up to date. i would like to thank mr costa for his comprehensive and worthwhile report, which highlights the opportunities for digital technology in education and learning, but also points out the dangers faced by children and young people in the online environment. minors know how to use the internet without difficulty, but they often need help to use it sensibly and responsibly. the protection of children, in particular the protection of their privacy and the fight against inappropriate content, is of paramount importance. on the other hand, the positive opportunities offered by digital technologies to young people must be supported and promoted, as exemplified by the digital citizenship emphasised in the report. this report was an easy vote.
mr president, we are here to discuss the budgetary framework for the years 2014-2020. we cannot afford to make mistakes and the eu should be able to bet. i can't do this right now. young people are not a priority for the eu; for example, in this year's budget 0.1% of the eu budget is being spent on youth activism and various youth projects. this is way too little. the budgetary framework under discussion for the coming years will allocate so little money to youth projects that it would be hard to speak of it. this is the same amount that was given to european wine growers in 2011. one year! i think the eu must now stop and give priority to young people, they are the future of the eu and young people cannot be forgotten.
in writing. mr president, the european parliament should not be underestimated in the budgetary and budgetary negotiations under way. it is strange that parliament is still seen as a necessary evil. you only listen to it when you have to. this is not a sustainable model for european democracy. the multiannual financial framework is not a question of interinstitutional balance of power. europe needs a strong budget to cope with the social pressures of the crisis, rising unemployment and reduced competitiveness. this means that more money is needed and that it must be directed towards targets that will generate growth and jobs. this week, a group of protesters are again outside the european parliament, demanding jobs and social justice. what has been lost in the social dimension of the crisis? the european union is at the forefront of financing projects and programmes across europe that boost growth and investment. without growth and investment, no new jobs will be created. the current austerity line only increases social inequality and exclusion. unrealistic targets are most acutely targeted at the most disadvantaged and socially vulnerable sections of the population. the crisis has already left 25 million eu citizens unemployed, including 5.5 million young people. it does not seem credible that this social crisis equation could be solved only by further tightening of austerity programmes. the fact that we are not in a position to do so is a sign of the weakness of the community. nor does it help to brighten up the eu's tarnished image among its citizens. what is needed now is a decisive, consistent and credible economic policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. europe and europeans need jobs, investment and growth now.
i voted for this report, mr president, which means that it is important for us to discuss here the industrial, energy and other aspects of shale gas and oil, and it is certainly important that we discuss them with regard to the environmental aspects, because we are committed to sustainable development and growth in the european union and the member states, and it is therefore very important that when we look for these new forms, new technologies, how to make better use of european energy resources. but when we talk about better use, we must look beyond economic advantage and economic profit and also look at environmental values. and i can say that it is very important to emphasize this aspect of this report, namely that new technologies, new investments are needed and that this will enable us to develop our mining industry in a sustainable way.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important report. it is important that the european union can agree on urgent budgetary matters in a time of need and in the name of solidarity. the solidarity fund has proved to be an important and sufficiently rapid instrument by which the eu can give concrete financial support to its member state or region in order to repair the damage caused by a major natural disaster. italy has requested assistance from the fund in view of the serious damage caused by the earthquakes that occurred in may 2012. the controversial budget negotiations have, on the contrary, further tarnished the union's public image. it is strange that parliament is still seen as a necessary evil. you only listen to it when you have to. this is not a sustainable model for european democracy. the multiannual financial framework is not a question of interinstitutional balance of power. what is needed now is a decisive, consistent and credible economic policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. europe and europeans need jobs, investment and growth now.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the agreement now reached reduces russian export duties, particularly on wood products. this is a significant step forward, as russia has been applying timber tariffs since 2007. the consultation of the european parliament on international trade matters is an established and well-functioning principle of the lisbon treaty. the eu's action in the field of international trade is not a trivial matter. the european union is the world's largest trading partner. its share of world imports and exports is 20 percent. the eu is undoubtedly the world's largest economic area. it is therefore important that the eu upholds its own values and the rules that bind its member states when trading with third countries. the eu is first and foremost a community of values, which seeks to preserve europe's competitiveness and to consolidate internationally agreed rules of trade.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. although this is a change in tariff quotas as a result of russia's membership of the wto, i think this is a welcome development. cooperation with russia is important not only for the european union but also for the countries bordering russia in the context of the economic development of the european union.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. i think it is important that the technology be allowed to enter into use by responsible companies and entities which are committed to maintaining groundwater purity and minimising methane emissions to the best of their ability. the creation of a comprehensive control system is essential to ensure the environmental safety of new technology. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the gas supply in the community. in future, efforts must be made to exploit this potential effectively, but in an environmentally sound way.
mr president, the european union needs a budget that builds european equality, economic growth and, above all, tackles youth unemployment throughout europe. the finns are asked to contribute 35 cents a day to this budget. but the budget must also be financially responsible, and the union must ensure that inadvertent and intentional abuses are rooted out. the union must therefore ensure that we have the courage to present the following message to our citizens. the message is not easy, it is not light, it is not a saturday concert of wishes, and the message is this: the member states' rigid line in the budgetary negotiations is irresponsible. the idea that our money, the money of the citizens, is being well looked after is being created in the minds of the citizens by cutting the eu budget. if this path is taken and if it is continued, the very foundations of the existence of the union will be shattered. the final question is whether we are going to build this continent together or not at all, because what is at stake is the european union.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for the eu council of ministers to abandon the paralysing unanimity requirement in climate negotiations and move to the normal qualified majority in accordance with the lisbon treaty. in the eyes of the rest of the world, our self-serving talk of ambition looks ridiculous when we have not been able to make a decision even on the withdrawal of the so-called hot air in the emission allowances. it's time for climate policy to wake up. dan jørgensen already referred to a recent world bank report which warns that we are heading for four degrees of warming, which would mean, for example, a rise in sea level of up to a metre this century, dryer and drier drylands, rainier and rainier wetlands, and immense suffering for hundreds of millions and billions of people. it is a self-deception to claim that our 20% reduction target is ambitious when we were already down 17.5% last year. it is our human and global duty, as corinne lepage said, but also our own interest to tighten the target of at least a 30% reduction in emissions, while encouraging the rest of the world to move forward. we repeat again and again that warming must be limited to below two degrees, even though we know very well that our current emissions targets do not correspond to this climate target. it is high time that we, too, in our emission reduction targets, take action to limit global warming to two degrees.
in writing. it is time to vote again on our resolution for cop 18. we do this every year, with the aim of giving the commission a signal of the direction parliament wants the eu commission to take in the meeting. but when i read the resolutions year after year, it seems as if time has stopped in our face; we keep repeating the same hopes, which have proved ineffective, for eu leadership and leadership, as if someone were following our example. we are still holding onto kyoto by force, as if a kyoto-style strategy with emission ceilings were the only way to save the climate. we are reluctant to admit the facts, to the extent that some of our colleagues, led by the greens, want to vote against my two amendments which merely state the facts: the durban package covers some 15% of global emissions in total, and at least the usa, russia, japan and canada will not participate in any second commitment period in kyoto. at the same time, i would like to point out that developing countries such as china, india, brazil and indonesia will still not have emission reduction targets for the next period. if we are to take the fight against climate change seriously, we must face up to the facts and realise that we urgently need something more effective and comprehensive. ironically, the very people who fear the catastrophic effects of climate change the most are the first to deny the perceived inefficiency of current measures and are unwilling to update their attitudes. it is therefore time to start negotiations on a new basis with the aim of finding a real solution to which others are also prepared to join. the current model is clearly not.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i join in the congratulations for the two defence reports. both reports reflect some of the difficulties and unclear aspects of the european common security and defence policy. therefore i strongly underline the need to define the roles and competences of the different actors. the danjean report talks about strategic autonomy and strategic decline, which the report assigns to the lack of funds and the reduced defence budgets. the greens see these more as a result of lack of cooperation, sometimes mismanagement and even a result of wrong priorities. the paşcu report talks about the mutual defence clause, and mutual assistance clause. at the same time it is very difficult, and i understand the difficulty, to relate these to the nato defence clause, and in particular for those six eu member states which remain outside nato. secondly, there is the question of the nuclear umbrella, nuclear weapons. as we know, nato is a nuclear alliance. what is the role for british and french nukes in the context of european defence? the management and decision-making structures and procedures for the so-called defence clause are very clear and i hope that the appeal for the high representative to clarify these issues will be taken seriously.
rapporteur. − mr president, as rapporteur of the eu-kazakhstan report, i have the pleasure of opening this debate by presenting to you our recommendations on the negotiations. the recommendations we are now dealing with are the result of an intensive process of cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs, including consultation with stakeholders, experts and the valuable debriefings by our chief negotiator, mr wiegand. i also would like to thank the inta committee for their very good opinion and it has been my endeavour to ensure consistency with our eu policies and strategies on central asia and on human rights. the golden rule that we stressed in parliament’s march resolution is that economic development must be linked to political development, and therefore progress in the negotiations on the new partnership and cooperation agreement must be linked to progress in political reforms. in fact, this meets kazakhstan’s important commitments and obligations to international and european standards. however, declarations have to be followed up by tangible and concrete steps. in this regard, it was negative news that the appeal of mr kozlov was turned down by the court. this appeal process was open but not fair. a serious concern we took note of is the legal move to shut down and ban the independent media outlets, as we heard yesterday. we are very concerned about the further limitation of political freedoms and the independent media and call on kazakhstan to repeal the vague criminal charge of ‘inciting social unrest’ in its criminal code. the recommendations focus on three main topics: first on economic cooperation, second on the political dialogue and cooperation, including with regard to security in the region, and thirdly on the really crucial issue of human rights and democracy. indeed, economy, trade, investment, energy and security matter for both partners. to extend trade and foreign investment the removal of tariff and non-tariff barriers is necessary. the convergence of standards towards eu standards would favour the modernisation or diversification of kazakhstan’s economy. on human rights and democracy, the eu and kazakhstan still need to find a common language during the ongoing pca negotiations. kazakhstan needs to bring its legal system fully in line with international standards. kazakhstan should draw on the assistance and recommendations of the venice commission and finally ensure the full implementation of its very good human rights action plan. we support visa facilitation between the eu and kazakhstan. in every sense, we give our strong support for legal, academic and vocational training and for cultural exchange programmes, and we call on kazakhstan to hold an impartial investigation into all recent allegations of torture and ill-treatment in connection with violence in zhanaozen. all in all this is a fair and balanced report.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the negotiation of the treaty between kazakhstan and the eu is indeed a test for the european union of how the european union's soft power is actually used, and it is also a test for the european parliament of how we use the possibility that the lisbon treaty gives parliament to influence the negotiations. it was encouraging to hear the high representative and the presidency say that indeed the negotiations could be suspended if the human rights situation were indeed to go in the direction that the bad news of yesterday indicated. i do not think that postponing the vote is the answer; on the contrary, we must now give the european parliament clear instructions as to the level of the high representative, the type of speeches he will make and how he will deal with the matter during the visit and, above all, how to proceed with these negotiations. that is why the european parliament must now have clear guidelines for the negotiations, and it is important that parliament is informed, and that the bad news of yesterday we will, as mr jeggle said, demand in the oral amendment tomorrow in these motions for resolutions that the kazakh authorities actually repeal the decisions which restrict freedom of the media and which will in practice make the activities of the opposition even more difficult, if not impossible. i would like to thank you very much for an interesting debate and i hope and believe it is important that parliament is kept informed of the progress of the negotiations and that tomorrow we will then give a rundown of what needs to be done in the future negotiations.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are discussing several important reports tonight. i am starting with my own waters, the baltic sea, and the baltic salmon action plan. firstly, the report gives us a minimum size for salmon and seafood. it will hopefully effectively close the loopholes that have existed which have allowed salmon to be fished over quota and to be recorded as a marine resource instead of salmon. secondly, we want to phase out the current compensation provisions in the long term by making a river inventory and an action plan on how to restore the local salmon stocks. thirdly, we want to ensure that, with the active involvement of professional fishermen, recreational fishermen and conservation organisations, more practical knowledge is brought into this context and from the baltic sea fisheries policy to the external dimension of this report. three points: firstly, it is important that we create a fair system of rules and put an end to the current systematic flag-swapping. fishing vessels flying the flag of the eu to countries offering flags of convenience shall not be allowed to return to the eu registers in order to benefit from financial subsidies. secondly, the eu must not compete with developing countries and thirdly, it is important that we align our aid policy with our trade policy.
rapporteur. – mr president, due to the latest bad news in kazakhstan, i have an oral amendment. the latest news is that the human rights situation is deteriorating in kazakhstan. this oral amendment is supported by many groups in parliament. it is: ‘expresses great concern with regards to the lawsuit introduced on 20 november 2012 by kazakhstan’s prosecutor general demanding unregistered opposition party alga, khalyk maidany association and a number of opposition media outlets to be banned as extremist; strongly underlines that the legitimate fight against terrorism and extremism should not be used as an excuse to ban opposition activity and hinder freedom of expression;’.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report. it is important for the european union to keep up with the times and networking is a reality today. the world is becoming more global, and especially thanks to the internet. the transnational network is not only a network for trade and social interaction, but also a network for governments to rely on the internet and its security. it is therefore important to agree on the safe use of information and digital technologies and on sustainable and reliable information services and related infrastructures, and also to seek common action models at european level. all obstacles to the defence and security of common information networks at eu level must be removed. the protection of young people and children is of increasing importance in the digital online society.
mr president, climate change has an impact on security, peace and stability in the world. mr tarand deserves our thanks. it is unfortunate that climate change is being overshadowed by the economic crisis. the effects of climate change are often dramatic. its effects are primarily concentrated in the poorest and often most densely populated areas of the world. we have to be prepared for climate change. communities affected by climate change need to be helped to prepare for and adapt to changing living conditions. once again, the most vulnerable victims of climate change are women and children, who need special attention. this report sends a message to the eu external action service that parliament wants this important issue to be taken seriously in eu policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the state of the baltic sea's salmon stock is extremely worrying. in recent years, the population of the dragon has been observed to be decreasing sharply. one reason for the decline is overfishing of salmon. for the protection of salmon to be effective, recreational fishing must also be regulated. the purpose of the multiannual management plan is not to prevent fishing but to enable fishing in the future. the conservation of fish stocks and sustainable fishing are ultimately the responsibility of each of us.
the author. - mr president, mr commissioner, the current iranian regime is committing flagrant violations of human rights and is trampling on the fundamental freedoms of its citizens. this time we focus not only on the executions but especially on the 35-year-old blogger sattar beheshti, who died under torture in evin prison last week. the reason for his arrest was solely his political opinions and criticism of the iranian government on facebook. the international community and human rights organisations have taken note of the iranian government's execution and have also expressed concern about the security situation of the beheshti family. beheshti's death has brought attention to the country's dire human rights situation, but not everyone sees the bigger picture, namely how the iranian regime is playing a behind-the-scenes role in the deterioration of the security situation throughout the middle east. the current iranian regime is the greatest threat to world peace. it is quite incomprehensible that the international community should largely stand by and watch the iranian regime develop its military nuclear weapons programme in peace and not pay any attention to the statements of the iaea, for example. the current leadership of the country is allowed to publicly threaten to destroy israel, another un member state, and to support the hezbollah terrorist group operating in lebanon and syria, and, for example, to supply weapons to hamas during this latest middle east crisis. similarly, the current iranian government has put pressure on iraq in how they have treated the iranian opposition, who are currently in camp ashraf and liberty camps. i hope that both this parliament's position and, in particular, the statement by the eu's foreign affairs commissioner, mrs ashton, will be even more forceful and that indeed further progress can be made in these economic sanctions, so that iran and its current administration can be held accountable for the poor treatment of their own citizens.
mr president, there are repeated violations of fundamental and human rights in iran. victims include human rights defenders and ordinary citizens who, through their personal blogs and community servers, highlight the injustices they have suffered. the fatah, the iranian information network police, is also involved in state-sponsored intrusions into private life. the work of journalists is controlled, the freedom of artists is restricted. parliament must send a strong message to the iranian state that harassment and intimidation of its citizens is unacceptable. the torture and death of sattar beheshti in police custody must be investigated, the guilty convicted. a society that is open and open to discussion is ultimately in the interest of the state and those in power. iran must be encouraged to discuss other issues.
mr president, the violence between the buddhist majority in burma and the rohingya minority has continued. the silent acceptance of discrimination by the burmese state is inexcusable. the situation in the rakhine state of burma is already becoming alarming. thousands of homes have been destroyed, leading to tens of thousands of people fleeing their homes. the european external action service should pay attention to the inter-ethnic violence in burma, even though the roots of the conflict are centuries old. the rights and freedoms of citizenship should be extended to all inhabitants of the burmese territory, regardless of religion or background. burma must fulfil all its obligations under international law to all the people living in the country.
mr president, mr commissioner, last september we expressed our deep concern about the situation of the rohingya muslims, which has become increasingly harsh in myanmar. and the most extreme estimates suggest that genocide may soon be underway. the background problem is that although the rohingya have lived in myanmar for centuries, the military leadership stripped them of their citizenship in 1982, and the rohingya are not among the country's 135 or so legally recognized ethnic minorities. although we have recently received encouraging and good news from myanmar, it is quite clear that the international community must not be blinded. the situation in rakhine is a major concern for this entire reform process and even for the possibility of the state falling back under authoritarian rule. we must remember that these processes of change are all very slow and only in their infancy. the international community must therefore continue to pay attention to this case.
mr president, commissioner, libya does not have a functioning asylum system, nor is it a party to the un convention on refugees. amnesty reports that undocumented foreigners are at risk of abuse, arbitrary treatment and even arrest. in particular, in this situation, when the country operates without a central administration, armed militias and individuals throughout the state have been given the power to decide the fate of migrants without the framework provided by the law. according to the unhcr, people have been deported from libya without the possibility of having their cases dealt with in a meaningful way, including to countries where the deportees face persecution, and there is also a high level of trafficking in human beings. the eu must underline that libya should protect all foreigners on its territory, regardless of their status, and that the government should be able to guarantee human dignity and also protection from violence. foreigners should also be provided with access to a lawyer at the stage when they apply for asylum and protection.
mr president, libya has taken clear steps towards democracy. the eu must be able to provide guidance to libya on human rights bottlenecks requiring special attention. several international human rights organizations have reported on human rights violations in libya, including acts of violence. libya should be encouraged to ratify the 1951 un convention relating to the status of refugees. this would also facilitate the work of the un high commissioner for refugees in the country. the rights of migrant workers must also be taken into account. the european union must offer cooperation to libya. the conditions must be a democratically functioning libyan government. the libyan authorities have a duty to protect all foreigners from violence, exploitation, threats, intimidation and other forms of exploitation. i hope that the benefits of the european economic area will encourage libya to continue along this path.
mr president, in the context of the healthy ageing year, there is indeed a need to focus on the prevention of age-related diseases in women. women have a longer life expectancy, but often health care, and especially disease prevention, is more difficult for women for economic reasons. the various types of family and carer's leave eat away at women's earnings and thus also at the level of pensions. in many countries, too, women have not accrued pension security from previous domestic or agricultural work. often, the elderly woman is also the caregiver of a loved one and may struggle with coping. in this sense, this report raises very important issues and stresses that we must pay particular attention to the ageing of women and to the link between their health problems and their poverty.
mr president, although this report is an initiative of the committee, it would certainly have deserved a wider debate in the plenary. the completion of the digital single market is essential for europe as we seek to overcome the economic crisis and make our continent more competitive and also to boost economic growth. the report does a very good job of highlighting the challenges of the digital economy of today. the eu has more than 27 different pieces of legislation, covering vat, copyright and consumer protection. this is particularly challenging for smes, which are the backbone of the eu economy and account for some 85% of our jobs. this also means developing the electronic payment market and implementing the digitalisation of public finances, including through electronic procurement. the report calls for a more detailed policy and also for more fundamental reforms to the current situation.
mr president, the threats of antimicrobial resistance must be taken seriously and this report seeks to highlight many ways in which current practices can be improved. however, i cannot agree with the rapporteur on paragraph 16 which he has mentioned here, because it seeks to prohibit veterinarians from selling antibiotics. this excludes member states with long distances or difficult access, such as finland. in finland, a veterinarian always sells his medicines at the wholesale price, that is, at the same price as he buys them from the pharmaceutical factory, so he cannot take a profit. the finnish system also serves owners of farm animals when they are travelling long distances. in lapland, for example, a veterinarian can easily travel 100 to 200 kilometres from one farm to another, which is in the interests of the animals and, of course, of the farmer. in central europe, the practice is different, and veterinarians may be tempted to give these prescriptions beyond what is necessary to treat the disease. i would therefore recommend that the finnish good practice be adopted in the rest of europe, but not that veterinarians be totally banned from selling antibiotics.
mr president, i have followed with interest the speeches made by other members here. i think it is also important to stress the importance of patents for smes. the number of patents and other intangible rights worldwide has exploded in recent decades. this is because the competitiveness of firms is increasingly based on innovation. in recent years, around 80% of all new jobs have been created in smes. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive. one reason for this is that most companies operate only in their home market and in an environment where intangible rights are not given much attention. the second reason is that smes generally cannot afford to apply for patents. the cost of obtaining a patent for the whole of the eu is many times higher than, for example, obtaining a patent in the united states. this cannot be right, especially if we want to make the eu's single internal market work. patents also play an important role in the future of europe and in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, as they contribute to the advancement of research and development, and thus indirectly to employment.
in writing. - after 40 years of work, it was time to make a decision today. it's not perfect. it is regrettable that the objectives of a more cost-effective, high-quality and legally secure patent system are not being achieved. in future work, more attention will have to be paid to these issues. the division of the european patent court into three separate locations in paris, london and munich has rightly raised some eyebrows. wouldn't one place have been enough? finally, i hope that spain and italy will also join the european patent system. it's time to put the language differences behind us. in any case, the application may be submitted in any eu language. after that, the application is simply processed in either english, french or german.
in writing. - we have today adopted an important new instrument for cooperation between the european union and its member states and the countries of central america. we can congratulate ourselves. this is the first interregional association agreement signed by the eu since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. parliament has a key role in guiding eu trade policy. it is important that the european union maintains its consistency in its trade partnerships with third countries. the european union is a community of values. democracy, the rule of law, equality and human rights are our common principles on which our policies must be based. the eu does not trade for trade's sake. it is therefore important that the agreement also includes provisions on sustainable development. however, i share the concerns raised that the agreement now concluded should not be weaker than the current gsp+ system. the agreement will strengthen the eu's regional ties and social cohesion with latin america.
in writing. - we have today approved an important trade agreement between the european union and its member states, and colombia and peru. parliament has been fighting for this agreement for years. we have managed to incorporate important requirements in the trade agreement to improve social standards and human rights. the trade agreement now being concluded will bring improvements, especially in the rights of workers. the agreement concluded shows that the european union does not see trade as just trade. the policies we make reflect our values. the call for a human rights roadmap and, in particular, the establishment of a parliamentary monitoring group to monitor the implementation of the agreement are new trade policy instruments. peru and colombia must remember their international obligations to improve the status of their citizens and to develop society. the agreement will strengthen the eu's regional ties and social cohesion with colombia and peru.
in writing. the creation of a budget line for the current and the next financial year was a politically extremely important agreement. the crises in the union no longer required a budgetary crisis, which, if it continued into the second half of next year, would have made it even more difficult to solve other problems. the 2012/2013 budget agreement was also significant in terms of content. while the 2013 budget is smaller than the 2012 budget in terms of both payment appropriations and commitments, it is growing in the very areas where it should be growing. the budgetary agreement reached ensures that funding for research, european networks, competitiveness programmes and innovation programmes will increase significantly from the current year. this is precisely how the european union can combat recession and restore the competitiveness of our continent. the exchange programme projects such as erasmus and the sme programmes can now continue without interruption. this is very important if we are to create new jobs in europe on a lasting basis. the budgetary agreement also means that the european globalisation adjustment fund can now provide assistance to eu citizens in seven member states who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade. among them are a thousand former employees of the nokia salon factory. this is an important message that the eu does not forget its citizens in the face of difficulties.
in writing. the idea behind the financial transaction tax is to encourage the financial sector to contribute to the balance of payments created by the financial crisis and to encourage long-term sustainable investment solutions through taxation. the eu's budget deficit was eur 4.6 trillion, or almost 40% of the eu's total gross domestic product in 2009. that staggering figure is the sum that eu countries, collectively and individually, pledged to manage the financial crisis: to recapitalize and support their financial sector and their banks, to guarantee their liabilities and to do other things to combat the crisis. the eu's external assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe (cee) and the mediterranean region (mena) was mainly focused on the following areas: the commission's proposal for an eu-wide transaction tax was published last september. the proposal failed to gain unanimous support in the council and the eu countries that are willing to do so are now moving forward with closer cooperation. someone has to be the guide. it would be desirable that a sound and functional financial transaction tax system could be extended to other eu countries and globally. the commission must also work towards this objective.
the question of the blue card. mr president, farage and eppink are somewhat bitter that the european union has won the nobel peace prize. you are using this parliament as a platform for your domestic policy. i would ask you if you really do not recognise and acknowledge the achievements of the european union in 60 years of peace here in europe. that's what this was about, not the nobel prize in economics, but the nobel peace prize. you really don't see any value in this?
i voted in favour of this important report. the negotiations on the eu budget are already becoming farcical. but we need a budget cut. without the budget, the consequences would be far more serious. the member states therefore intend to withhold part of the agreed contributions from the eu. as a result, the commission has not been able to pay all the invoices due. member states are demanding significant cuts in the eu budget for 2013 and, at the same time, the highest possible level of subsidies for themselves. europe needs a strong budget to respond to the social pressures of the crisis and to the rise in unemployment and reduced competitiveness. i therefore welcome the information given by president schulz at the beginning of the vote that fresh money has finally been promised to cover the 2012 payment gaps. budgets in deficit should not be adopted. parliament has shown its budgetary backbone by calling for a balanced and sustainable eu budget.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1260/1999 as regards the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security. the commission has not yet received any comments from interested parties. mr president, i have just voted in favour of this report. the nokia case is a sad example of the impact of globalisation on the mobile phone industry and the impact of the asian growth markets on european employment. as a finn, i am pleased that the workers laid off at the salon factories have the opportunity to receive support for re-employment. however, i would like the eu to take stronger and more concrete action to improve european competitiveness so that in future member states will not have to apply for support from the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the leichtfried report. i believe that it will increase the necessary cooperation between the decision-makers. only through this cooperation can we effectively take account of the needs of air traffic, the inhabitants of the residential areas surrounding the airport and the urban planners. noise reduction is essential for the enjoyment of life and must be carried out in a cost-effective manner and in accordance with clear common rules. the proposal supports the creation of these common rules and framework and therefore deserves my support in the vote in parliament.
in writing. the annual report on human rights that we are dealing with summarises the values that we members have defended year after year, highlighting both individual human rights violations and more systematic shortcomings in various parts of the world. 2011 has been a pretty disastrous year for human rights. far too many human rights activists were harassed, beaten or even lynched. at the same time, the eu has faced perhaps the greatest challenge of its history in trying to contain the economic crisis without succumbing to the world's negligence. our human rights work has been less visible, even though the union - and of course parliament - has new powers to make foreign policy. however, the eu has funded thousands of human rights projects and our leaders have made critical statements when necessary. it is great that the eu has taken the decisions to establish the office of the special representative for human rights and the council working group on human rights, and to create a strategic framework and action plan for the union's human rights policy. it is important that we pay attention to the cooperation of all the institutions. the foreign affairs council should play a coordinating role, not forgetting the contribution of meps. we have excellent connections with local human rights activists and key decision-makers. as the recipient of the nobel peace prize, the union has an increased responsibility to implement the principles set out in article 21 of the treaty. it is good for decision-makers to remember that it is usually better to react early rather than too late, especially when it comes to our neighbourhood. the situation in syria, egypt, the palestinian territories, libya, bahrain, yemen and many other countries has not improved. so we have to check whether our previous actions have been effective enough.
mr president, russia is an important trading partner and strategic partner of the eu. trade brings jobs and income to both sides, but under no circumstances should we ever forget human rights in the shadow of trade. russia still has a long way to go to meet all its human rights obligations at the level of the council of europe and the european union. in her comprehensive report, the rapporteur, mrs swoboda, highlighted, among other things, the issue of visa-free travel. it has been a topic of discussion in the negotiations between russia and the eu for some twenty years. it is a very difficult matter and progress has been slow because of the need to renew passports in russia. there are many other things that need to be changed in order to be able to get visa exemption. we must also remember that visa-free travel is not exactly passive freedom, but that it is certainly also viewed with some criticism in the member states. this is mentioned in the programme of the finnish government. the eu must proceed with prudence and wisdom in this respect, in order to create the conditions for natural movement and trade, but also in such a way that crime can be prevented. it's a very important matter.
mr president, ideally the financial transaction tax would be global and preferably pan-european, but we cannot allow ourselves to fall hostage to some member states that are unwilling to move in the direction that is the most vitally important solution for our future – to harmonise our taxation and to hold the financial players responsible for the costs that have been created by the financial crisis. at the moment, the solution of starting with enhanced cooperation is the only way of moving forward. hopefully the next steps would then gradually lead to a pan-european transaction tax.
mr president, animal welfare is an important issue because it speaks to our human values. the report by the european parliament on the protection of animals during transport is necessary because it deals with two issues in particular: eu legislation must be updated to take account of the latest research data and the welfare of animals during transport depends in some cases more on the conditions of transport and the treatment of animals than on the time spent on transport. the report also calls on the commission to consider an eight-hour time limit for the transport of animals for slaughter. this is a good thing, but it requires the granting of exceptions for the sparse road network and long distances, as stated in the amendment i tabled and which was adopted. the report's main objective is to encourage local slaughterhouses to move more meat and fewer animals in the future. i support this report and voted in favour of it.
mr president, there are still shortcomings in the transport of animals for slaughter. the eight-hour time limit is no guarantee of animal welfare. it is difficult for parliament to ignore the internet address signed by almost a million people in favour of the eight-hour time limit for animal transport. i have put a written question to the commission on this subject for over a year. the commission has not been able to provide a comprehensive answer to the questions on which the eight-hour time limit for improving the welfare of animals for slaughter during transport is based. common legislation on the protection of animals during transport has not solved the problems. the question is not essentially one of a certain number of hours during transport. the problem is the implementation of the rules already in place and the monitoring of their implementation. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive.
mr president, this position of parliament on a report which is in itself a positive one was at least puzzling because the majority of members of parliament in their written position were clearly in favour of an eight-hour limit for the transport of animals for slaughter. however, in this parliament's position, after the vote, there were a number of exceptions to parliament's own position, for example if this eight-hour limit would potentially cause a competitive disadvantage or unreasonable economic costs. this shows that perhaps animal welfare is not so essential or important after all. i think it is clear that our message to the commission and also to the future legislation is that meat moves on wheels, not animals. at least eight hours is sufficient travel time for transporting the slaughter. we have the opportunity, through local slaughterhouses and also through mobile slaughter equipment, to deal with this humanely in europe. it's time for it.
i voted in favour of this report. the european union is a union of values based on fundamental and human rights, and it must ensure that these rights are also realised in practice. the full realisation of fundamental and human rights requires effective cooperation between all the different institutions and member states. the dialogue on fundamental rights must be open and transparent. in order to make effective use of their fundamental rights, citizens must also be aware of them. i therefore call for measures to raise awareness among the public, which i also added to the report.
i regret to say, mr president, that i had to abstain on my group's position because i believe that we needed and we need this clearer statement on fundamental rights for the future of the european union, which also clearly defines the responsibilities - not only of the commission and parliament but also of the member states - of how we guarantee women's rights, reproductive and health rights, the rights of minorities, including sexual and religious minorities, and really guarantee a perspective in which every person and his rights are of equal value and are subjective and indivisible, that is, we value here who gets rights and who doesn't get rights, but we guarantee a system in which all people get human rights and fundamental rights.
mr president, i just wanted to underline that what we are doing in demanding a multiannual framework for the eu agency for fundamental rights is crucial and vital to this process. if we do not have an adequately resourced and effective agency which can actually carry out the background fact-finding, searching and reporting on the state of fundamental rights in different areas of life and in different member states, and convey this information to the decision-makers to enable them to correct their actions, we cannot reach the objective of good implementation of fundamental rights. i regard the role of the agency and the report that the parliament has drawn up as being of crucial importance in this field.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report. the european union exists and operates on the basis of the values of equality, human rights, the rule of law and democracy. by combining them in different policy areas and in the creation of a common internal market, the european union has been able to guarantee peace and stability in its member states for over 60 years. and in recognition of this, the nobel peace prize was awarded. the annual report on human rights has the important task of reviewing the achievements of the eu human rights strategy, both successes and failures, in retrospect. only by learning from the past can we learn to improve the present. for my part, i have revised the important remarks in the report on children's rights and the strengthening of the role of women and on human rights dialogues with third countries. it is important that the european commission and the external action service integrate all human rights in a holistic way into all union policies.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report. the european union exists and operates on the basis of respect for human rights. the treaties establish the central role of human rights in all eu and member state policies. this is a legal obligation, not political rhetoric. the european union's human rights obligations also extend to its actions with third countries. the most powerful instrument of the union's foreign and trade policy is enlargement. the promise of eu membership can only be offered to european states. the union must therefore also always take its values into account in its neighbourhood policy and strategic partnerships. the mainstreaming of all human rights into all union policies is a priority for the european commission and the eeas. the union's 60 years of work have been a success. the objective of peace, stability and prosperity has been achieved, and we have won the nobel peace prize for this. now we must look to the future.
mr president, russia's accession to the wto last august brought to an end 19 years of negotiations. less attention has been paid to the negotiations between the eu and russia on a new partnership and cooperation agreement. the eu is seeking a strategic partnership with russia. russia is probably too big for a member state. of course, europe will never be without russia. europe and russia are not only intellectually rich but also trade partners, dependent on each other, particularly in the fields of raw materials and energy. in the negotiations for the treaty, the eu will continue to insist on the universal values of respect for human rights and democracy and the rule of law, which have already become a mantra. the pragmatic view is that cooperation with russia is essential. but europe must be critical of the brutal treatment of civil society in russia, although the crude realism will only come into play when winter weather reminds us all of our dependence on russian energy.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution. the resolution is a clear message from the european parliament to both israel and the palestinian authority. the settlements, which are declared illegal under international law, must not be extended and built in the occupied palestinian territories. parliament also condemned the statements by the vice-president on the justification for the existence of israel. the european union must continue to support the two-state solution with determination. the aim of peaceful and secure coexistence must be a goal to which all parties are committed. peaceful and non-violent means are the only way to achieve peace between israelis and palestinians. only through negotiations can a lasting peace and solution be achieved. shalom!
mr president, i voted in favour of the report. ukraine is a european country and has the right vision of membership of the european union. enlargement policy is the union's most powerful political instrument for encouraging reforms in its neighbourhood and for moving towards more effective democracy and market economies. i believe that the future of ukraine lies in the european union. ukraine shares a european identity, a common history and common values with the member states of the european union. however, it still needs a lot of reforms. at the heart of development issues is the need to reform the country's human rights situation, civil and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. the eu is also committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective policy on the prevention of terrorism. ukraine shall comply with its international commitments in all matters.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution. the future of albania, like that of the other western balkan countries, is in europe. parliament conveys its full support for albania's progress with the resolution. the country is firmly on the road to eu membership. the commission's positive progress report is also a message to the entire western balkan region. the council should grant albania the status of candidate country as soon as the reforms in the field of justice and public administration have been completed. the 2013 parliamentary elections are also a test of the maturity of albanian democracy. the gradual integration of albania, like the other balkan countries, into the european union is the most certain guarantee of peace in that region. the integration of the western balkan countries into the european union would also strengthen the union's badly lost identity as an area of peace and social justice.
mr president, the reports of violence against civilians in the eastern part of the congo are alarming. the eu is also committed to the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the un, the african union and the european union also have a role and a responsibility in this. the population of the eastern part of the congo suffers from recurrent atrocities, including human rights violations and war crimes. the crimes are acts of violence that are completely incomprehensible, such as the mass rape of women and girls, torture, murder of civilians and the recruitment of child soldiers. rape should be treated as a war crime because of its nature. it is absolutely essential that all those responsible for human rights violations and war crimes be brought to justice. unfortunately, the absence of charges contributes to a climate of impunity and encourages further crime, and we must not allow that to happen.
mr president, the situation in the democratic republic of the congo has become catastrophic. he was also the commander of the fdlr's armed wing in the drc. serious human rights violations, including gang rape, including rape of very young children, torture, mass murder and the use of child soldiers have been reported in the region. the humanitarian crisis is getting worse. the impunity of war criminals and human rights offenders creates a climate of impunity that encourages new crimes. in particular, the vast natural resources of eastern congo have been in illegal hands and have helped to finance rebel activities. the international community, in particular the eu, the african union and the un, must step up its efforts to resolve the crisis and alleviate the humanitarian catastrophe. the use of child soldiers must be stopped and the perpetrators of rape must be swiftly prosecuted in order to break the cycle of mass rape as a tool of destruction.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the dalits are the lowest and most discriminated group in the old caste system of india, the unchaste, who have been untouched. recently, several encouraging political decisions have been made in india to improve the status of dalits. the dalit movement has been characterized by reservations for seats in the indian parliament and quotas for certain professions and educational institutions. the old caste discrimination still works strongly in the background. according to the ilo, dalits are the largest single minority in south asia subjected to artificial debt imprisonment, including forced labor and prostitution. furthermore, in general, the female literacy rate in india is 43 percent, compared with only 24 percent among the dalit women. although a number of important steps have been taken in the area of legislation, much work remains to be done to implement them and to change attitudes in general. the elimination of caste-based discrimination should also be taken into account in the curricula of local primary schools. the commission should also give priority to the eradication of caste discrimination in its assistance programmes.
mr president, parliament has already taken a position on the situation of the unbaptized in india. i am appalled that no change has been made in the situation of the unbaptized. india alone is responsible for this. it is not enough to make empty political promises. india must take its international human rights obligations seriously. the violence of the past few months alone shows that the indian state is not serious about eliminating discrimination and contempt, especially against dalits. police violence and gang rape are deliberately organized activities of the higher classes. in tamil nadu, hundreds of unbaptized homes were burned as punishment for intercaste marriage in that village. unfortunately, the indian authorities are not serious about their human rights obligations towards the unbaptized, and the european external action service and the commission must take this into account.
